u2019-05-27-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 15th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. Welcome, my dear guests, and everyone who monitors our work. Dear House, I am fulfilling my sad duty to announce that Ferenc József Nagy died in the 96th year of our former colleague's life. Ferenc József Nagy obtained his mandate at the first free parliamentary elections from the 6th constituency of Baranya County, in the colours of the Independent Kisgazda Party. From 1990 to 1992 he was a member of the FKGP and until 1994 of the United Small Farmers' Party. In 1990, as president of the FKGP, he led the coalition negotiations with József Antall and began his work as Minister of Agriculture in the newly formed government. Since 1991, he was a minister without a wallet for the rest of the term, and in addition to coordinating agricultural reforms, he also supervised the National and Ethnic Minorities Office. I would ask you to honor the memory of our fellow Member with a silent standing. [[The people in this room pay tribute to the memory of the deceased.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has applied for a speech before the agenda today. Prime Minister, I give you the floor.
u2019-05-27-1	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, European Parliament elections were held in Europe and Hungary, which is why, according to our constitutional customs, I asked for the floor at today's session. We know the results: in addition to record participation in yesterday's election, the Hungarian governing parties won a record victory. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] As Prime Minister of Hungary, I would like to thank everyone who took part in the European Parliament elections. It has been the fourth European Parliament election since 2004, and it has brought the highest participation. Yesterday Hungarian people proved that Hungary is a European nation, a European country, and Europe is also our country. At yesterday's election, the Hungarian people made it clear that they wanted a change in Brussels. They said that they wanted to see European leaders who do not want to organise, but to stop immigration. They said they wanted leaders at the head of the European institutions who respected European nations and wanted to protect Christian culture. They made it clear that they want leaders for whom the interests of Europeans are always the first. I would like to inform you that, on behalf of Hungary, I will only support such leaders. The EU's prime ministers will be meeting on Tuesday to start negotiations on future European leaders. Dear House, I consider yesterday's election to be a strong mandate from the people of the Government of Hungary once again. Like all election victories, it's an assignment for us. We have been commissioned by the Hungarian people to represent change in Brussels. So we have a job and a task, the Government of Hungary and I personally will do everything in my power to represent the will of the Hungarian electorate effectively in European politics. Dear House, Every election, including the elections to the European Parliament, has internal political meaning. The Hungarian people voted in confidence again in this election for the ruling parties and the government, and we received greater support than we did a year ago. Hungarian voters, regardless of party colours, ask their representatives to represent the interests of the Hungarian people in Brussels and not the interests of Brussels in Hungary. Please, all of you, consider this. [[13.10]] Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday's election also made it clear that the Hungarian voters feel it is worth continuing what we started. I would like to inform my fellow Members that in one year since the parliamentary elections, the results of the Hungarian economy have improved further and the Hungarian economy is improving. In the first quarter, the Hungarian national product grew by 5.2 percent. Economic growth has therefore not lost momentum even compared to last year's particularly strong year, and the first quarter results have shown an unprecedented rate of expansion for a decade and a half. Based on the economic facts of the first quarter, the Hungarian economy has grown most strongly in the EU; although the Irish and Maltese figures are not yet known, without them it is safe to say that our country is currently one of the three most dynamically developing economies in Europe. The number of employees in the national economy exceeds 4 million 490,000. This means that between 2010 and 2019, the number of people living on the job and salary increased by 788 thousand. The employment rate increased from 54,6 percent to 70 percent between 2010 and 2019, with the number of unemployed falling by 316,000 compared to 2010. I would like to inform you that unemployment stands at 3.6 percent, the fourth lowest figure in the European Union, while the proportion of people working exceeds the EU average. In 2010, 12 percent of the Hungarian population under the age of 60 lived in households where little or no one worked. By 2018, we managed to push this down to less than half. Wages have also increased by 73 percent compared to 2010 and the minimum wage has increased from HUF 73.5 thousand to HUF 149 thousand, more than double in Hungary. In comparison with the EU, this means that the fourth largest increase in the minimum wage in the European Union has been in Hungary since 2010. More importantly, we can also succeed in poverty policy. Thus, according to the recent report of the European Union, the European Union has not come out of the serious financial crisis, i.e. poverty, of 1 million 800 thousand people in the last five years. Ladies and gentlemen, All this has been done while the Hungarian budget is stable, we will not stretch any further, just as long as our blanket is worth. Hungary has been meeting the so-called Maastricht stability criteria for budget deficit targets for seven years now. Our debt is also falling: by 2018, the government debt, calculated according to EU methodologies, has fallen below 71 per cent. It must also be said openly, Mr President, in this House, that the performance of the European Union is less rosy. The growth of the old Member States of the European Union is slowing down and the growth rate of the euro area is decreasing. Therefore, the increasing Hungarian growth is taking place in a slowing Europe. This means that we need to protect the results of the Hungarian economy, and we need to go beyond European growth every year. I consider it a realistic objective to increase by more than 2 percentage points the European Union average. This is the government's aim and I will shortly present an economic protection action plan to this House. Ladies and gentlemen, The result of the elections to the European Parliament has also shown me that the Hungarian people support our initiative in family policy. We all agree that for the Hungarian people, the child is the first reason why we announced the family protection action plan. In three years we will create 21,000 new cradle seats, of which 10 thousand will be completed by the end of 2019. So we're going to give the mothers the opportunity to go back to work if they choose. The second stage starts on 1 July, where young couples who have children can receive a life support of HUF 10 million. With HUF 2.5 million, we support the purchase of family cars for large families, the CSOK system expands to those who want to buy used apartments, and we also increase the child support for mortgage loans. Finally, the third stage of the Family Protection Action Plan will start on 1 January 2020. At this stage, we will introduce it so that grandparents can use the weed. [[13.20]] And we will also settle an old duty by exempting women who have at least four children from personal income tax for the rest of their lives. Dear House, This is how we stand in May 2019, one day after the European elections. I ask for the help of the Parliament and each of my fellow Members so that Hungary can achieve its objectives. Thank you for listening. [[A big round of applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2019-05-27-2	Dear Parliament, After the Prime Minister's speech has not exceeded 20 minutes, the political groups have 5-5 minutes each to comment. In the order of applications, I give the floor first to Ferenc Gyurcsány, the head of the DK faction. Here you go.
u2019-05-27-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Well, if not recently, but I suppose most of us visited the enchanted castle of the amusement park at least once a few decades ago, where you can choose a mirror, in one you look smaller and in the other you look bigger, who is thinner and who becomes fatter. I think it's an excellent game. But this is not the political struggle. To judge the political struggle, its success or its failure, we have a very clear standard for that: have we achieved the goal set? Yes or no? [[István Szilárd Németh: What do the voters say?]] What was the government's objective? The government's objective was to try to change the main political direction it described in Europe, so that, as they say, the fight between anti-immigration and pro-immigration will be decided for the benefit of anti-immigration. This claim is, of course, a liar in itself. I continue to say that Europe's dominant politicians and political factors, among the key factors of Hungarian political life, there is no one who says that we should open the borders and come without necks, without control, under any conditions. But that's my little problem. Frankly, we're used to you saying that in the morning and at noon and at night. [[Defiance.]] But if that is the standard, then let it be clear whether the political direction represented by the Hungarian government has fallen into the majority. Yes or no? It is very clear in the morning after the elections because the composition of the European Parliament has yet to decide for the population of Europe that the European Parliament factions will give the majority, which want a stronger, more cooperative Europe, which is going to a federal world; we have said that to the European united states. What you and the Prime Minister represent in the lead is to withdraw from the national state framework and look at Brussels as an opponent, that is to say, the people holding hands with each other, this, please, will be 15-20 percent in Europe at best. It doesn't matter, Prime Minister, that you will have 8, 9 or 14 seats. There is no majority in the European Parliament. You and your party will be in a minority for the first time in your life. Or what will happen is that the nationalists of Europe, the populists of Europe, will end, Hungary will pay the price, because they will not be able to enforce the country's interests, or they will be independent, and, well, the bread of the independents is as bitter as it is in Hungary. You failed, that's quite clear. There was a political goal, and that political goal will not be met. There will be pariahs in Europe, and the country will pay the price. In the big European budgetary debate ahead, you will not bring home more with one pet, but hundreds of millions of euros less, because you will be put on the bench because the majority of Europe does not want that policy. You'll be lonesome there with your politics. And in this regard, it does not matter what results you have achieved in one of the polling districts by the means you use. People's representation should be a representation of the will of the people. You can't say that's what the Hungarian people wanted. We do not know what the Hungarian people want. Where the press is not free, there is no free choice, and if there is no free choice, then we will find out how much your lying manipulation has achieved the goal. That is, we have learned not the will of the electorate, but the effectiveness of your lie. You're certainly good at this, so there's no problem with that. They have no idea what Hungarians would say if they saw in an open, fair debate between possible political trends what to choose between. There is an infinitely poor settlement in Hungary where the governing party received 100 percent. If we're just a little sane, I know how to smile about it, but you know this isn't the way the world is. There, please, what's happening is that the power-pressed, deserted, vulnerable peoples bring the results of North Korea. If you are proud of this, then I am truly sorry for your failure in reality and your failure in Europe's policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2019-05-27-4	Now it's time for Jobbik's group leader, Márton Gyöngyösi.
u2019-05-27-5	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Prime Minister, Listening to his victory report, and judging by yesterday at the polls, you didn't seem happy. And there's a reason for that. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] You, Prime Minister, have managed to isolate Hungary perfectly internationally over the past few years. You know that Hungarian national interests can only be enforced in Europe and in the European Union by allies and coalitions. You, Prime Minister, have basically had two scenarios in recent years. One was that, basing himself on an elite exchange in the European Union, he organized the populist heat club and, sitting at the head of it, as some kind of cock trying to disintegrate the European Community from the inside. The other scenario is equally destructive: if this exchange of elites did not succeed last night, and I could see on your face that it was quite dissatisfied, so since it did not succeed, you will be able to raise your hand once no more money or recognition comes from the European Union and raise your hand again, and raise your hatred and create enemy images to start Hungary's slow drive out of the European Union. Of course, not straight, but sneaky, as you and your party can always expect, hiding behind people's hatred. You, Prime Minister, have already been threatened in the European Union with your right to vote being deprived, European Union funds being withdrawn from Hungary because of you, and Hungary is also excluded from the Schengen area because of your policy. It is not because of its migration policy, Prime Minister, but because in Europe they do not tolerate the fact that, ignoring the rule of law and the rules of democracy, a dictatorship is being built in a country that has once set off on the path of democracy's development. Prime Minister, you will now implement this second scenario, and you will do the right thing by standing up to the people of Hungary, looking people in the eye and telling them what you are up to in Europe. Because I believe that you are essentially going to lead Hungary out of the European Union, contrary to Hungarian national interests. You have been running a campaign based on a lie, Prime Minister, for two years now, especially in relation to migration. And the fact that the people of Hungary do not notice and ask you to do so is only due to what Strache, your ally, said a year ago, that you have built a media dictatorship in this country that is hermetically shutting the population of Hungary away from reality and facts, and has built a parallel world here. Why is your campaign a lie, Prime Minister? There was a time when Europe was pro-migration. It was a Europe of Renzik, Merkels and Faymanns, but they have all fallen into history and are no longer in control of European politics. Prime Minister, you have been telling the international media and the media at home that this European leadership wants to distribute migrants in Europe on the basis of quotas. [[13.30]] You know best that on 28 June 2018, the European Union adopted a decision stating that migrants can only be distributed in the European Union on a voluntary basis. So there are no quotas, and you know it, Prime Minister. Even though you smile, you are a lying Prime Minister who has built your anti-Migration campaign on a lie and every constructive proposal by the European Union to strengthen Frontex, which is about how to protect Europe's borders by means of a contractual agreement with Turkey or Africa, you have rejected it as a hysterical stupid child with diplomacy at the head of Péter Szijjártó. Prime Minister! You have allowed 86 thousand migrants into this country while conducting a disgusting anti-immigrant campaign of 86 thousand migrants with more than 20,000 residence bonds. And he put on Hungary tens of thousands of migrant workers who had been moved from Hungary to Zalaegerszeg, Szentgotthárd, Hatvan, Tiszaújváros, where these hotels were already built. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Prime Minister! We need a new policy, and you will not be able to represent Hungarian national interests in the European Union. I am very sorry as a Hungarian person, not as an opposition. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-05-27-6	After this happy speech, I give the floor to Bertalan Tóth.
u2019-05-27-7	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Prime Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, after the choice it is worth evaluating the result. Obviously, every party will do the same, and the Hungarian Socialist Party will do the same. Indeed, it is worth seeing and examining what European and internal political messages this election has. [[Intruder from the benches of Fidesz: Let's see. Let's hear it.]] More than once in the campaign, we have told you that the stakes of this election are that those far-right, populist politicians, those politicians of whom your ally, your friend, the Austrian Vice Chancellor has failed, are those who want to build a system here with Russian money that you have built from stolen EU and domestic sources. So do they advance, can they break out of the quarantine in which the European progressive forces have locked them? And this breakthrough, this outburst, has failed, so the stakes are whether they are breaking through, they have not been realised; the European progressive forces, including the European People's Party, have preserved the majority with which Europe can go on the path of integration cooperation that represents the peace of Europe and the future of Europe. The other internal political message is that they failed to repeat last year's election result. I understand that it is absolutely true, but they could not win a two-thirds victory, and that is very important because it gives a lot of people a chance and hopes to turn this autumn into their own settlement, their own destiny. Because, Prime Minister, in 220 settlements in Hungary, Fidesz lost the election against the opposition [[Noise, interruptions in the pro-government benches.]] and the opposition cooperation that has developed and then developed gives us a chance and hope to achieve change in Hungary in the autumn, October, in the municipal elections. Ladies and gentlemen, These settlements are in many parts of the country. Such settlement is the capital, Budapest, Szeged, Miskolc, Pécs, Nyíregyháza, Szolnok, Veszprém, Tatabánya, Dunaújváros, Dunakeszi, Gödöllő, Budaörs, Gyöngyös, Göd, Ózd, Kazincbarcika, Dunaharaszti, Komló, Százhalombatta and I could list. [[It's constant noise.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am responding to the Prime Minister's speech, but I am speaking to my fellow opposition Members in an unusual way. [[Turning to the opposition side:]] Please remember December and January. Please, you know this message for yourselves. I would like to ask you to make the hope that has now been given to millions of people a reality. Because I believe that if it is possible to distract the Fidesz small kings in these settlements, if the ministers and governors of the system of national cooperation in these settlements can be disturbed, then change can be achieved in this country. That's the responsibility we take. I am asking you to do the same, and together, together, in October, we will make the change for the electorate. Let us bring the reality that people will wake up in a new country in October, and let us work together, together, for this free democratic country, and learn from the momentum, from the cooperation that we have already done once. [[It's constant noise. A voice from the benches of Fidesz-- the case of Gyöngyösi-- the president's ringing.]] The responsibility is on us, and that's the responsibility we take. In October, a new country will wake up. Thank you very much.
u2019-05-27-8	I give the floor to Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the LMP faction. Here you go.
u2019-05-27-9	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, I would also like to respond briefly to the Prime Minister's speech, but I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to respond to the speech of the group leaders and party leaders before me. I basically agree with the ideas that my fellow opposition Members have expressed before me and the importance of what Bertalan Tóth ended with. The municipal election will be of great importance, and it must be made aware of this place now. However, we cannot forget that yesterday there was a very important choice in Europe, and it was also a very important choice in Hungary. In this election, however, we can see that the voters sent a very clear message, and the voters' message was very clear. I think that our first task here is to thank everyone, every Hungarian person who considered it important to take part in this election, and he considered it important to express his opinion with his vote as a citizen of the European Union. Allow me to express my special thanks to everyone who voted for "Maybe Other" on the Politics list. The LMP has fought this campaign with honor, and despite the results, we thank everyone for their honor. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I would like to take advantage of this opportunity to congratulate all elected Members of the European Parliament who received a mandate yesterday, and I would like to congratulate those organisations who have successfully participated in the European Union campaign. At the same time, I would like to point out that there is a huge responsibility on these organisations and that there is a huge responsibility on the shoulders of MEPs. We all know that I do not think that there is a debate between us that in the coming years, the fate of Europe will be decided in the next term. The fate of the European Union will be decided, but the stakes will be much higher. And it will be based on the decision of its fate, and it will determine the future of all of us, that it will be able to give a real answer to issues of fate such as climate change; it will be able to find a strong response and find the reasons for the crisis that we call a global migration crisis. And it is also extremely important that we manage to respond to the huge social and economic difference that has forced 600,000 people to leave Hungary, unlike before. This is a matter of fate, and the work of the representatives of the European Parliament of the next period will be judged, in historical perspectives, according to their sense of responsibility and, accordingly, they represented our national interests with honor and effectiveness. We wish all MEPs good work under such conditions and conditions. Thank you.
u2019-05-27-10	The next speaker was Szabó Timea, leader of the Dialogue Group. You have the floor.
u2019-05-27-11	Mr. Prime Minister, Listening to your speech here, you can see that you're watching a slightly different movie than European citizens. Of course, I understand that this will have to be broadcast in your propaganda newscast, so it's important that they hear something from you. For example, European citizens and Hungarians see that, despite your talk of historic victory, you, for example, have not been able to mobilise or increase your voting base nearly as much at home. [[Delight and applause in the pro-government benches. Németh Szilárd István laughing: Failed! The point is, the Dialogue could mobilize it! This is a joke.]] In the parliamentary election, you took 3 million people to vote... [[Defiance in the pro-government benches; István Németh Szilárd laughing: This is very good! Dóra Dúró towards the pro-government side: how much did you manage?]] I'll wait for Szilárd Németh to amuse himself. You took 3 million people to vote yesterday to 1.7 million; therefore, I would not call it a historic success. However, if we look at how many hundreds of billions of dollars have been spent on total propaganda, the amount of money that he has not spent and could not spend on all the opposition parties combined, this is not such a success. [[13.40]] But thank God you were able to mobilize people in Europe, your opponents, the pro-Europeans, the greens, the liberals, the left-wings. In Europe, thank God, it seems that your politics could not prevail. At the first opportunity, European citizens said no to their plans to quote Europe in Hitler, where even governments there have not destroyed democracy as you have done in this country. Prime Minister, your party achieved exactly the same result five years ago, and compared to the previous EP election, some important things happened, such as the fact that you destroyed the entire free press in Hungary. He's shut down Népszabadság [[Defiance and interrogations in the ranks of the governing parties, among them: Come on!]] and turned Magyar Nemzet and News TV into lie factories. With the Central European Press and Media Foundation, which you have declared a noble simplicity in the public interest to be a merger of national strategic importance, over 400 press products have been directly managed by you. Then, in effect, he sent opposition parties to the end of the war by withdrawing their State aid from the State Audit Office. [[István Szilárd Németh's intervention.]] This was also the case with the Dialogue, from which the State Audit Office virtually withdrew the full support by not coming out to check it once, and we have been waiting for the SAO's inspectors ever since. When we asked why the state aid was withdrawn, so that I could take a turn with Gabriella Selmeczi: only. Then he couldn't even put up posters, because it could only be his party quoting your Rakosi times. So it was not so difficult for you to win, but there are still not so many reasons for joy, either at home or in Europe. Let us first look at the results of Europe. Your right-wing friends didn't make the breakthrough. Salvini and Le Pen have achieved good results in their country, Europe and the European Parliament will not have any significant role to play. Europe does not ask for your fascism again. [[Uproar, interrogation in the pro-government benches.]] He doesn't even want the Soviet tanks. You have been exposed, Prime Minister, the gigantic lie that you would be a huge politician in European form, a major player in the European arena. We'll see if the People's Party can drop you off, or they'll jump on you. You know very well that the greens brought the real increase, not the Fidesz right-wing parties. The greens came second in Germany, third in France and Britain. Then let's take a look at the home numbers. Your party reached 44 percent in Budapest in 14th. Yesterday, 41 percent, despite all their bans, their lies and their propaganda. Overall, the opposition received more votes in every district in Budapest than Fidesz. In two thirds of county-righted cities, the opposition received more votes than your party. [[István Szilárd Németh: We should have run together.]] You know exactly what that means, Prime Minister, in 16 county-righted cities, Fidesz has done well below 50 percent. We all know what that means, don't we? This means that even though the European elections were won yesterday, we will get Budapest back in the autumn municipal elections, and we will get the big cities back. [[Defiance and interrogation from the ruling parties: Go!]] We will free the capital and these rural cities from your tyranny. Despite all your efforts, the opposition cooperation you fear is already forming in the autumn for the municipal elections. We will put an end to this tyrannical power. We're gonna stop stealing, we're gonna break up hospitals. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] the total humiliation of the poor. You think... [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic. A lot of noise, a lot of interruptions. Some words can't be heard. Without sound:]] ...it's gonna be a different world in the fall.
u2019-05-27-12	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr. Péter Harrach. [[Noise, interruptions.]] Mr. Péter Harrach has the floor.
u2019-05-27-13	Mr President, Prime Minister! Dear fellow Members, Prime Minister has outlined a picture of Europe and the election. I would like to add some mosaics from the background. I do not want to say anything about the picture that has been outlined here, because the opposition has presented itself now. I think that the calm voice that we have a duty to make after such a choice must continue. If I were to give the subtitle "Hungarians and Europe" then, of course, a historical flashback should be taken from St. Stephen, who founded a European, Christian and Hungarian state. He was European and Christian, but he did not become a vassal to anyone, kept his independence. Or if we continue to watch over 500 years in history, we can see that János Hunyadi and his associates fought against the Turkish threat, protecting Christian Europe and defending Hungarian independence. This is what we want to do today: to protect European culture and Hungarian independence, which is rooted in Christianity. The strong mandate that the government received yesterday for its next activity will serve to protect national interests. Another subtitle should be allowed: campaign and European standards. I believe that in the struggle, in the campaign's struggles, power, desire to win, struggle, hard struggle must be shown. There is nothing wrong with that, and this is in line with European standards, but not alparic sound and tasteless remarks. Especially for those who proclaim Europeanism. It should also be noted that, unfortunately, this has not ended with the campaign. I think that strength should not be shown by being as harsh as possible, but by being calm. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai addressed to the president, Mr. President, it's for you.]] in our own strength. If I can say one more subtitle, it's all about the ideals. Today, it is a decisive question in the struggle between the two political forces how you think about freedom. We always add responsibility to the concept of freedom, and the historical rear-view I would like to refer to with just one sentence: during collectivism, individual freedom was trampled on the feet. Liberal thinking, on the other hand, weakens the power of communities by less emphasising responsibility. So when the concept of freedom that prevails today in Western Europe, it weakens the community of families, ecclesiastical communities and the nation. This is also a kind of ideal basis for this question. So when we think in Europe and plan for the future, we put the emphasis on the protection of a European culture of Christian roots, the strengthening of communities and human dignity, and we are not thinking in European united states, but in the alliance of free nations. In the European Union that the founders imagined, as they thought, this European Union, which was indeed intended to reduce its opposition to one another, to strengthen cooperation. We not only accept this, but we intend to represent it: we want to see our national interests, a strong, cooperative Europe and a protected continent in the future. That is why those who received a strong confirmation from the Hungarian electorate yesterday are working. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-05-27-14	It's time for Mr. Máté Kocsis, leader of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2019-05-27-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, all opposition parties have congratulated us on our victory in accordance with their abilities. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I would like to note here that the seriousness of these speeches is highly questionable. [[13.50]] I would only like to respond to Mr Gyöngyösi's words with half a sentence. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: Respond to the Prime Minister, not me.]] Because if you think we were sad, imagine how sad Jobbik would be after a 53 percent election result. Several comments were made on the media dictatorship. In the campaign, I still missed these outbursts, but let me give you a brief overview, even if it is outside the content of the speech. The leading Hungarian commercial television, RTL Club is at your service, the leading Hungarian news channel [[There's a lot of noise, there's a leak from the opposition's benches. Gergely Harvesto: What?! Intervention from the opposition benches: That line will be short!]] ATV is at your service, the largest Hungarian newspaper [[Szabó Timea: Short!]] Népszava is at your service, the largest Internet portals, the Index, HVG, 24 are at your service [[Szabó Timea: List all 400! Márton Gyöngyösi: What planet did you fall from?]] And the fact is, the biggest weekly sheet, HVG, is in your service. [[A lot of noise, yells from the opposition benches. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: In fact, all the shows!]] The thing is, you may not like this, but you'd better finish your media-dictatoric heat rumble. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] If we can move on [[Szabó Timea: Is the line over?]] Congressman Toth, allow me to make a comment. You've listed that we've actually lost the elections, you've classified cities where we've all won. On the other hand, you have been on the verge of a cliff, but you have now taken a step forward, and I would like to congratulate you on that. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]] I would also like to tell you, Mrs Szabó, that your objections to the State Audit Office have so much reaction that you must comply with the laws and then these procedures will not start. [[It's a lot of noise. Szabó Timea: We followed the law!]] That's the thing, Congresswoman. That's what's gonna happen. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Szabó Timea: Come out to check! How do you know we didn't keep it?]] But let us quote one from Mr. Gyurcsány's faction leader [[Szabó Timea: Talking nonsense!]] The faction leader said he didn't know what the people wanted. You never knew. I would like to remind you here, since the Prime Minister has already talked about economic achievements, who does not understand in this country: unemployment has doubled under your governance, public debt has been doubled, Hungary has completely lost its economic self-determination, the IMF and the elite in Brussels dictated. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai:]] For nine years, this country has been under excessive deficit procedure. I do not know how to describe who can and how successfully represent Hungarians. The economic decline, the decline, was minus 7-8 percent, compared to the current expansion of 5.4 percent. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Check the petrol price.]] And that he looked down on the Hungarian voters, he learned it from Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, sitting next to you. I'm asking you not to. These comments do not contribute to mutual understanding. It is also clear that we have long said that Ferenc Gyurcsány is the leader of the opposition. Then they laughed, they didn't believe us. Ferenc Gyurcsány and Ferenc Gyurcsány's family are the leaders of the opposition. Ferenc Gyurcsány runs the opposition at home [[László Varju: Say it again!]] His dear wife will lead the opposition in Brussels. That's what happened yesterday. This has happened yesterday, and it is also true that the opposition's ruins have taken the lead, but what has happened is that you have regained control of the opposition's parties. [[Gergely Arató: What about István Tiborcz?]] Congratulations on that. If you would like to remind everyone of the past few years, this was the lineup, this was the old-new alliance that destroyed the country during its governance. Economic and social conditions in 2010 may not need to be reminded of many [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Don't lie to me, Congressman. Zsolt Gréczy: Take a look at the exchange rate of the forint, for example!]] At least one of the people in Parliament. If you will allow me, perhaps it is worth mentioning that Mr. Group Leader Gyurcsány spoke of a curved mirror in which you might want to look. I recommend it to you, too. [[Intercom from the opposition benches: Fat!]] that you were undoubtedly the leader of the opposition yesterday with the result of the election, but also look at the results of the Hungarian elections: this election was won by the Fidesz and the Christian Democratic Party. He won it by a huge majority, with the majority of Hungarians voting, and if he questions our election results, he will do the same to his own. [[Zsolt Gréczy: 300 billion billiards!]] So I suggest that you learn from the will to vote, believe what the majority of Hungarians say in an election, is not to be underestimated, not to be scrapped, but to be considered and taken into consideration. I trust that the majority of the Hungarian electorate, as a whole, will also guide you. So I would ask you to represent the interests of Hungary in the European Parliament [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Always.]] not home to the interests of Brussels. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-05-27-16	That concludes the answers. Ladies and gentlemen, I now give the floor to the Prime Minister in return.
u2019-05-27-17	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened with due respect and patience to the contributions of my fellow opposition Members. All I can tell you is that you clearly haven't learned anything. I see that you're angry, and you're mad at me for not voting for you. That's, let's face it, it's absurd. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches. There's a lot of noise in the opposition benches.]] I would like to remind my fellow opposition Members that yesterday an election was held in Hungary. The Hungarian people have decided. The results are known. I ask only two things with due modesty from the opposition: look at the board and respect the decision of the Hungarian people. Thank you for your attention. [[A big round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-05-27-18	Dear House, Actions before the pre-scheduled agenda will now take place. First, I give the floor to the head of the DK faction, Ferenc Gyurcsány. [[It's constant noise. László Varju: Clean up first, Mr. President.]]
u2019-05-27-19	Given that it is not easy to have a meaningful and tangible debate with the ruling party factions, with the Prime Minister himself, even in this environment, I think we should run it again in case we have more results. You say that you do not want European united states. Good. What's this about? Isn't the story about looking at the issues that if we solve together, not only Europe, but all the nation states will be strengthened? I think so. For months, the Hungarian Prime Minister has fought against a united European border and coast defence. To be honest, we didn't understand it, because from what you represented earlier, this would have been the case. Well, he's finally getting up. His position became so untenable that he finally gave in. That's right. We are doing the right thing by protecting Europe's borders together and moving freely inside. That's the right thing to do. I'll tell you something simpler. We negotiate gas and oil separately with the Russians. Is that right? We would not be in a better position to say that Russian colleagues, from now on the European Union will buy gas and oil together, and then we will divide them. Bigger, stronger negotiating position or worse? Elegantly, it's part of the Energy Union. Yeah, I think that's what we need to talk about. Can we get closer, get the gas down here if we buy it together? It's not that complicated of a relationship, we can't admit it. Major European and world companies move across borders like Budapesters do between districts, as the Pécs go out to Komló, in fact, or vice versa, but we cannot jointly regulate these large European and world companies. Maybe because a lot of people don't want to. I don't doubt the power of the states, but I see that the last few years have proved that the power of many businesses is much greater than the power of the states. To resist them, to protect customers, to protect customers, to protect our citizens, we have a much greater chance together. Do you, together, want to act against criminals in the least, protect European taxpayers' money, not allow one or another to have a loyal prosecutor's office, police sabotage the investigations, not a common interest? That's what it's about! [[14.00]] Of course, when two people cooperate, they have to adapt. But aren't we looking for allies, friends, spouses? Don't we see that the two of us, the three of us, the four of us, the five of us are normally stronger? You have one problem. In political terms, the Hungarian Prime Minister is now essentially doing what he wants in this country, no matter what the law or the truth. There's no real, legitimate counterpower, no political power over him. The only thing that bothers him is that the European Union still exists. It is not the European Union that acts as an empire, it is the imperial exercise of power that the Prime Minister does in Hungary as governor. It is quite clear that there is a difference between the fact that he only wants free trade and border protection. That's what you told La Stampa three weeks ago. We didn't! It doesn't matter to us whether the peoples of Europe live freely in democratic countries. Yeah, it's not an internal matter that there are decent, rule of law, democratic circumstances in another country. It's not an internal matter that we leave a significant part of the people on the side of the road. Yes, we also want a social Europe. To break down the social iron curtain between Central, Eastern and Western Europe. Your head of government doesn't want any of this. Well, then, what do you want? Then what do you want? I think that this would be a fair and normal debate if you wanted to talk about it and not settle it with someone who wants us to strengthen it in this way. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Hungary, an enemy of the country and pro-immigration. That's the thing, gentlemen. [[Applause from DK's ranks. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: You rang the bell a little sooner than time had passed.]]
u2019-05-27-20	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, is responsible for your response. Here you go.
u2019-05-27-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Congressman mentioned a number of things. He talked about border protection, for example, as a joint task. Wasn't it you who protested at the Röszke border lock when it was built? Wasn't it you and your associates? Well, you wanted to break the border lock. Then he spoke or referred to Russian affairs. Wasn't it during your government that Russian secret services were allowed into the Hungarian secret services? [[Márton Gyöngyösi: Don't push this too hard. Zsolt Gréczy: In fact, it is rebuttal! Don't lie to me.]] No? No? Then he talked about fighting criminals. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Is this judgment, Comrade Bastion?]] Did we cooperate with Csaba Czeglédy or did you? Who hid him behind immunity? It was you! [[Gergely Harvestó: What are you talking about?]] Before you and your party get drunk on their 1 0 percent score, allow me to respond in a few sentences. It's hard to listen to it without a smile to try to make the Fidesz record win as a defeat. The truth is, in addition to the voters, they are at war with mathematics, it is clear. Because what happened yesterday? The fact is that in the election, what we have been saying for a long time is that Ferenc Gyurcsány is the master of the house on the left. He dictates politics, he divides the cards, he gives the pace, and that says a lot about the state of the left. 'Cause what happened? There's a politician who almost pushed the country into a cliff. [[Gergely Arató: His name is Viktor Orbán! Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That's not true!]] That's what ruined the left. What's gonna happen now? He looked through the ruins, climbed on them, and set the flag again. And now he's crying out for victory. But we know very well that when you call for victory, it's actually a tragedy for the country, because you doubled unemployment, you put big loans in the country's neck. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Paks II, what is that? Budapest-Belgrád railway line?]] You guys have wiped out a lot of family support, and you've been obsessed with austerity, and I could tell you a lot more. But it's not just the livelihoods on their list of shames. You teach Europeans, you teach democracy by getting shot in their own. Oh, yeah. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Stop lying! You were gonna have me shot with sharp ammo in 16!]] ...is the Hungarian left really there to proclaim Ference Gyurcsány as leader 13 years after the autumn speech and the eye shots? Is that really where you are, and the Jobbik is assisting? I'll be damned. [[Gergely Arató: You've already lost your mind.]] Dear Mr. Gyurcsány, The fact that a mandate has been taken from the MSZP and two are leased from Jobbik does not mean that your policy in Hungary is largely supported. [[Zsolt Gréczy: You've lost two thirds, I'm just saying.]] Because the Hungarians don't want to have bullshit bureaucracy in Brussels, they don't want other people to decide for us about wages, taxation, pensions or family support, because they know that when we gave these rights out of our hands, we always drew the short straw. Allow me to give you an example. Your top candidate, Mr Timmermans, spoke a few days ago about raising corporate tax to 18% in Europe. By 18, which means that if this were to be implemented, they would double the corporate tax rate in Hungary. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Double?!]] Then the future wage increases will be over. That's your policy, that's your policy! [[Intercoms from the opposition. Márton Gyöngyösi: The master would pull the leash. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We should do something about food, 27 percent VAT!]] Moreover, the Hungarians do not want an open society, despite your advertising, and the acquisition of four mandates out of 21 does not mean that they are allowed to go against the interests of the country. I have been following some of the activities of your representatives in Brussels, and I have followed in recent years, although the word amok running is the right word, and beyond all our political differences, these Members have a scandalous hobby: they are constantly speaking against their country, they are constantly organizing discrediting actions against Hungary. [[Gergely Arató: They speak against the Hungarian government for their country.]] The world has never seen anything like it. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Tell us something about Mr Strache.]] We do not see this from other MEPs. Not to mention that they voted for everything that's harmful to the country's security. In the case of the resettlement quota, which you deny here, you even collected signatures in 2015. [[Zsolt Gréczy: You were going to say a resettlement policy. Bond! Dr. Agnes Vadai: Bond, bond! Pharaon!]] He personally protested against the border lock. Then comes your wife. [[Gergely Arató: Klára Dobrev, remember, it is worth learning!]] And with a noble simplicity, he says that there are no such plans. The brains stop, the words stop! [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: I can see that.]] But every new election cycle is an opportunity for a fresh start, so I wish you to finally hear the Hungarians' voice and try it in the European Parliament, at least once, what it is like to take the side of Hungarians. [[Zsolt Gréczy: We have done this before, we are patriots in the European Parliament as well.]] We are living in a time when we need strong stand, strong representatives, and, last but not least, more sobriety. I wish you every success in your work. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-05-27-22	With little hope, however, I urge Mr Gréczy to stop yelling while answering your speech. We've been listening to yours. [[Zsolt Gréczy: You should tell the Fidesz people that!]] That's right, if you'd like to hear the other side speak, if you're talking about Europe. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: If President is talking about Europe, right? A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] Now it's time for Bence Tordai.
u2019-05-27-23	Dear Citizens, First of all, I would like to thank every Hungarian electorate who, with his responsible decision yesterday, blocked the further expansion of the Orbán party. Special thanks to those who have helped with their work the campaign of opposition parties or have guarded the cleanliness of the election as ballot counters. In view of the results, I am proud that half the Hungarian people are immune to fidesz brainwashing. I am proud that Hungarian society can resist the pressure of the state party using all means. Yesterday, despite the victory reports, the Orbán party failed to achieve its stated goal. Despite the almost total occupation of political institutions, the media and the economy, despite the fidesz party campaigns on public money, despite the financial bleeding of the opposition parties, despite the favourable transcription of campaign regulation for Fidesz, despite the violence of the party state, the Hungarian society resists. There's no two-thirds, and there's barely a half majority. There are no new voters in favour of Fidesz, the state party brought the results of five years ago, and even the Orbánists were reduced in Budapest, 3 out of 5 voters supported the opposition. There is no progress in the mandate number: Fidesz now has one less seat than ten years ago; and there is no extreme right-wing breakthrough in Europe. Viktor Orbán's nationalist friends will be a dwarf minority in the European Parliament, and the greens and the center parties have increased their mandate. This means that the majority of those who are fighting for a stronger, more united, more solidarityful and greener Europe have come into play. There can be only one good reason for the joy of Viktor Orbán and his court: he managed to pull a spike out of his fingernails, and the opposition representative who caused the most headaches to NER cannot continue his work in the European Parliament. He can no longer serve the Hungarian people in Brussels, with Benedek Jávor and his Dialogue team in Brussels. Let's say that what gives Fidesz a reason to be happy is the sad news for honest, clear-minded Hungarian people. What is good for Fidesz is bad for the Hungarian people, the Hungarian society, the Hungarian citizens, the Hungarian people, the Hungarian nation, as it pleases. What they celebrate in Fidesz, they mourn among thinking people. Benedek Jávor was the toughest and most prepared fighter in the previous EP cycle to fight climate change. While Fidesz supported climate-killing proposals, Jávor and his fellow factions obtained a majority of future-friendly solutions. While Benedek Jávor and the Dialogue developed the energy road plan for Green Hungary until 2050, the Fidesz brain-dead can say so much about climate change, Soros. Ladies and gentlemen in the fidesz benches! On their deathbed, at least they'll have an honest moment when their granddaughter asks themselves, when you could have stopped the devastating climate change, what you did, then you, if you'll be honest, say that we were on the government, but we did nothing, instead, we tried to distract voters by telling a lie about the old man. It's the chimword of irresponsibleness, betraying today's and future generations. This irresponsibleness, this betrayal, was the counter-image of the work of Benedek Jávor and his dialogue team in EP, the hard work that Jávor and his associates have done on environmental protection, sustainability, social inclusion, freedom of the press, transparency and Hungarian democracy. [[14.10]] I would like to thank them for this in the name of all decent people. Thank you so much. And one more thing to do is to congratulate and wish the opposition representatives who have obtained the mandate a good job. I am pleased that in this campaign, virtually all of them have caught up with the green left-wing program they have been promoting since the Dialogue was established. I am pleased that all opposition parties now support the human-centred and future-friendly Europe for which Jávor Benedek has worked. As a member of the Presidency of the Dialogue, I can only ask, but as a Hungarian and European citizen, as an earthling citizen, I expect Members who have just obtained a mandate to continue the work that Jávor Benedek has started in the European Parliament. Good work and good luck to all of us.
u2019-05-27-24	On behalf of the government, I understand that Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés will answer. Here you go.
u2019-05-27-25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I thought it was likely, many of you, together with others, that, in view of yesterday's results, you would manifest yourself more modestly in Parliament, but we were wrong about this, because the same concepts, the same phrases, the same abusive words came out in your comments, in your sentences, which we used to say from you, and perhaps you could say that you have passed the reality because you have expressed thoughts about yourself about why this modest result was the result of yesterday's election. Szabó Timea, you've also pulled out the templates, the arrogant words and wordings we've seen here many times in the past. The reason I said earlier was that you probably lost your reality because you didn't realize that, among other things, it was due to this fact that during yesterday, two parties, together with you, were able to produce a very modest, perhaps historic low point in the election. It is also possible to say that the reality has gone by your side, because, for example, you have not listened to Prime Minister's speech, you have not heard the sentences, the data, the facts that you have listed, which is likely to have made people decide to entrust the majority representation in the European Parliament in the next period, who have fixed the Hungarian economy in the past, after a member of your party association, the MSZP, has put the country in a near bankruptcy situation by 2010. With long and hard work, we managed to deliver a very serious result to Hungarian society, almost step by step, month by month, year by year, we were able to produce new results in employment, salary increases, education, health care and various infrastructure investments or even in the use of EU funds. This means that it has already been said here today that we have been able to show the greatest economic growth in almost Europe in recent months and in recent years. Thanks to this strong work, the work of society, we managed to reduce the 12 per cent unemployment by well below 4 per cent after 2010. As has been said, very serious success has been achieved in the growth of wages both in the competition and in the public sector. Consumption has increased significantly and is increasing in the current period, and these facts are ignored by you and are trying to intimidate people by presenting a situation that, as I said, has nothing to do with reality. In fact, it can be said that one of their serious weapons, perhaps also proven by the majority of society in this vote, is that it rejects the attempt to discredit fellow Members in person with different wordings in a single comment. I believe that this is why you have achieved the result, and that is why we had to say an obituary here for the work of the representatives of Jávor Benedek, whose effectiveness, by the way, is seriously questioned by others, because, apart from the fact that self-gratification stinks, he could not produce a serious result, apart from self-gratitude. So perhaps the Hungarian society, with the majority of the Hungarian voters' votes, has also proved that the work that he has done there in the European Parliament, or what you have done here together with the MSZP in the last year, is enough, and we hope that in the next period the Hungarian society, keeping its eyes open, appreciates the results that the government and the governing parties have shown over the past period. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-05-27-26	Hajnalka Juhász, representative of KDNP, applied for a pre-meeting speech. Here you go.
u2019-05-27-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday's European Parliament election is a historic moment and a historical chance that will determine the future of Hungary and Europe. A weakened Europe in its identity has been given the opportunity to find its roots, which is essential for its strengthening and for it to be able to respond decisively and effectively to migration challenges. We Hungarians confess our thousand years of Christian culture in our Fundamental Law, which Europe has not undertaken in the form of a common European Constitution. However, the challenges and acts of terrorism over the past period have shown that without a strong identity there is no safe presence and there is no safe future for Europe. There is no correlation between the processes in the Middle East and its security policy implications for Europe. The importance of interreligious dialogue and the opinion of vulnerable and persecuted Christians and other religious communities is life-threatening because what is going on in the Middle East affects and will affect Europe. In Lebanon, Syria, and Iraq, the total number of Christians has decreased by 40% over the last seven years, and without tangible financial support, and without security guarantees, they will continue to bleed out and exodus. As the Lebanese Mufti said, the presence of Christians is essential to preserving peace in the Middle East. While the terrorist organizations, Al-Shabaab, Boko Haram, the Islamic State and the Muslim Brotherhood are using a highly thought-out strategy to eradicate Christian communities and the Irish seeds of Christian culture in the world, there are signs of a lack of cultural identity in some major cities of Western Europe every day, where churches are being transformed into mosques, and in some countries the prayer call of the muezzin can be heard. The neoliberal reading of multiculturalism leaves large-scale immigrants unaccounted for, and the neighborhoods they live in become the bases of Islamism. While they benefit from the protection guaranteed by Western liberal laws, these communities are increasingly shutting down from adopting European standards and learning about European traditions. If Europe is not proud of its collective Christian culture, how do we expect it to be respected by an alien culture with a strong identity? The need for integration in immigrants arriving in Europe, who have lost their cultural identity, is not even raised, because in many cases they see nothing to do with it. We must say that the complete failure of the liberal approach and pro-immigration policy is the failure of integration, which is the hotbed of religious radicalism. Thank you, and I bow to all Hungarian citizens who have understood the message of the Hungarian Government, because I am proud that the Hungarian Government was the first to undertake in the world to be the voice of persecuted Christians and was the first to establish an independent secretary of state among the EU Member States to help persecuted Christians. [[14.20]] We are not fighting for the united European states, but for the preservation of Europe's Christian culture, and I believe that yesterday's European Parliament election has started a new European time calculation that can lead Europe back to the right path, where it finds its common historical past, culture and foundations, and places its protective gaze on the Middle East, the cradle of its Christian culture. Yesterday's European Parliament elections and 52.33 percent support for Hungarian citizens give the Hungarian Government the power and authority to continue the mission to preserve Christian communities in the Middle East and to keep peace in the Middle East, which will affect Europe's future. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-05-27-28	In response, I give the floor to Secretary of State Azbej Tristan. Here you go.
u2019-05-27-29	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Congresswoman pointed out a very important phenomenon: churches in the East and the South are being blown up, and in the West they are being shut down, converted into parking lots or mosques; that is why what happened last night is important. With due modesty and humility, we can clearly say that yesterday's European Parliament election was an overwhelming success for Fidesz-KDNP, the Hungarian Christian Democratic ruling parties, but this is not only the success of the governing parties, but also the success of Hungary as a whole, and more: a strong mandate to continue our national interest in Brussels, our fight against migration and immigration, and a strong mandate in addition to the Hungarian government post, but also a national mission to defend Christian culture as a service. It is therefore a strong mandate for the Hungarian government to continue its migration policy and, in this context, its humanitarian policy, which we call "the "Hungary Helps" and the principle of which is that help must be brought to where the problem is, not to bring trouble to Hungary. Allow me to say a little bit at home: the result of this election is a confirmation of the government's efforts in behalf of persecuted Christians and of the program "Hungary Helps" programme. So let us continue what we have begun to do in order to protect Christian civilization and, more importantly, Christian people, persecuted Christians. By way of derogation from the paper here, allow me to share a personal experience with you. Two weeks ago, I was in Kurdistan, Iraq, the Assyrian community there. They were subjected by the Islamic State to very hard persecution, kidnappings, slavery, mass murder, and to a significant extent migrated from the Middle East. When I was there, one Assyrian patriarch said that there were now more Assyrian Christians in Sydney than there were in Iraq, where the whole religion was founded, in the cradle of Christianity two thousand years ago. Yet there was a small community of constituencies that remained, and the Hungarian Helps programme supported the construction of their church. That is what they asked of us, not other residential buildings, not education, to build their temple, and that will help them to stay there. They told me that they were guarding the temples because the temples are keeping them and their future. So I am proud that, as a result of Hungarian solidarity, at least this Assyrian Christian community has been saved. I also went to the Virgin Mary Catholic school in Erbil, Iraq, two years ago, where hundreds of inner refugee children are studying, thanks to the program of Hungary Helps, and the donation of Hungarian Catholic believers. I'm a family man with a baby, and I know that if I had to run away from my home, from my birthplace, and come to a place where I couldn't give my children medical care or education, I'd go on. However, thanks to the Hungarian help, they stayed there and joined the more than 35 thousand Christian people in the Middle East, whose residence was supported by the "Hungary Helps" programme against migration. Not only in terms of its results and efficiency, but also in terms of international appreciation, the program became a real Hungarian success story. You may have seen, heard the news, last time the President of the United States, Donald Trump praised Hungary's efforts to protect persecuted Christians during his meeting with Prime Minister Viktor Orbán in Washington. And more and more people are joining us, besides the United States, we are already supporting the Syrian Christian people together with Poland. Dear Parliament, Help for persecuted Christians is needed in an unprecedented way. At present, 245 million people in the world are discriminated against because of their Christian faith, and nearly a dozen, eleven people are killed innocently every day because of Christ's faith. Yesterday, the Hungarian electorate concluded the question that the Hungarian programs for protecting Christian Europe, helping persecuted Christians, are right and must continue because they are worthy of our thousand-year Christian statehood. Once again, I would like to thank everyone who voted yesterday, proving that many people are interested in the future of Hungary, our country. Special thanks to Fidesz-KDNP supporters [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] that they have contributed, we can make our national interests more effective. And to commemorate yesterday's Children's Day: with this mandate, we will continue to work to build a secure Europe, to give it to our children. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-05-27-30	We now have Peter James, a representative of Jobbik.
u2019-05-27-31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, The first word is, of course, thanks. On behalf of the Jobbik faction, I thank all my countrymen who went to vote yesterday and drew the X to Jobbik. I would like to add even more thanks to those good-looking members, activists, who not only voted for us, but also actively participated in Jobbik's campaign. The reason why we have to thank you today is because today this is not a risk-free job in Hungary: the person who stands next to Jobbik's booths today is playing with his job in this very great democracy, because you are trying to retaliate everyone who disagrees with you. They made a good bed for yesterday's election results, I add. In the last year, you have used every means available to make Jobbik equal to the earth. Behind you is a huge media company with half a thousand media. Comrade Dumpster! We've got 250 winning press cases behind us. That's 250 lying about Jobbik. Satisfied? Did the system work well? Is this how you cheat the election? TV2, one of your main channels for the National Election Committee's decisions, the Curia's decision, is being ignored. Satisfied? Comrade Domokos has already escaped, ran after the Prime Minister, the independent president, hasn't he? Are you satisfied with his operation? Have you completed the task in the party state with the penalty of one billion forints imposed on Jobbik? You have done everything you can to wipe us off the face of the earth instead of fighting us in a balanced fight. So I'm saying that today is a huge victory that Jobbik even exists, and from now on, the mandate is only the premium category. If they think we're gonna put the gun down, they're totally wrong. We're not gonna put down our weapons, we're gonna go ahead and make the necessary changes, but we're gonna run into the municipal election and you're gonna cry at the end. We will also take all the existing county seats, all the large and medium settlements and preferably the villages away from you, and we will create a safe and free Hungary. We have now reached the point, fellow Members, that Fidesz in Europe is insufferable, and that in Europe you are unsuitable. They cornered their own nation and isolated it in Europe. You are embarrassing representatives of the People's Party, embarrassing, and so do we. You say that you have voluntarily left the People's Party. No, you're not. By the way, who cares, they're not on the football field, so maybe the Prime Minister understands better. You've been thrown off the European Union football field, we've been thrown into the locker room because of you, and others are shaping the state of the countries. The Slovaks, the Czechs, the Poles score the goals for us. We do not fight for EU funds, we do not fight for wage increases, we do not want to participate in the fight against corruption, we do not want border guards. You've all thrown these things away. Of course they threw it away because you don't care! A pay-as-you-go? More than once in Parliament, the Secretary of State said that it is gratifying to earn a hundred thousand forints in Hungary, because ten years ago he did not make that much. What a perspective, what a vision for the Hungarian worker, isn't it? ! You should be happy with this one, 'cause it wasn't even that long ago. If someone leaves because today one and a half million of our countrymen plan to go to the declining West, not to Vladivostok, but to the declining West, then you will replace cheap Eastern migrant workers, migrants, economic immigrants, from Ukraine, Turkey, no matter where, the point is to work cheaply. [[14.30]] This is your real immigration policy. Eighty-six thousand economic immigrants have been introduced into this country. Three thousand Turks will be brought to Tiszaújváros, probably not faithful Christians. How are they going to protect Christian Europe, tell me already? ! We don't even know who's here because you said no to your national security clearance. So what I'm saying is that from here on out, there's one person who is a real national security risk in this country, and that's Viktor Orbán. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]] We do not know why you let the cashier of the Assad regime in; why you allowed Gruevski in despite the protest of the European Parliament; why you veto those international treaties to stop migration far from Hungary and Europe. We know why: because he wants to be intimidated by migrants, because he wanted to make a living, both politically and financially, as does corruption. Since 2010, you have only taken one million HUF out of each employee's pocket with overpriced public procurement. You owe the Hungarian people a minimum of one million HUF. When are you going to give this back? So I say here, in the midst of celebrating the great election victory, that they should take me back from their faces, because there are not even few people in Hungary who cannot be intimidated, who cannot be bought and who cannot be fooled. Now, they're gonna be your people's judgment, and we're gonna be executors.
u2019-05-27-32	Since we are still in parliamentary democracy, I give the floor to State Secretary Balázs Orbán.
u2019-05-27-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I will try to respond in any way to the political obituaries from the opposition side. [[Martin Gyöngyösi: That's your job!]] or these arrow threats [[Márton Gyöngyösi: This is parliamentary democracy, as usual!]] I would like to thank the Hungarian voters, pro-government and opposition voters first of all for leaving and expressing their will, and I would also like to thank the pro-government voters specifically for expressing their wish to live in Hungary, what kind of Europe they want to live in, on behalf of the Prime Minister's Office responsible for our European Union policy. I would also like to thank the electoral staff and helpers for their contribution to the successful conduct of the elections in accordance with the legislation, much more successful than in other Western European countries. Yesterday, the voters showed that Hungary is strong, because the will of Hungarian voters is united. Moreover, we are very proud that there has never been such a large participation in the elections of the European Parliament in Hungary. In addition, Fidesz-KDNP has achieved the best list since 2010. And if we look at what this means in the European Parliament, there is obviously some uncertainty, because the final figures are still coming, but one of the parties of the Member State, which represents 2 percent of the population, will be the 14th strongest party in the European Parliament. I think it's a big success. In addition, in the European People's Party, the figures are obviously still a little uncertain, but the representatives who have been admitted by Fidesz-KDNP are on the list of the strongest parties. This represents a very serious representation of Hungary, and I think that the Hungarian governing parties play such a serious role, and they also play a major role in the next European Parliament compared to the size of the country, and everyone can be proud of that. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: Listen, you represent the government, not the Fidesz. Dániel Z. Kárpát: See what is written on the board... Márton Gyöngyösi: We know that there is a one-party system in Hungary, but you represent the government!]] We believe that this is also a strong mandate to implement the Prime Minister's seven-point programme, in which two components of the programme can be regarded as an instrument: on the one hand, the management of migration must be removed from Brussels bureaucrats who have failed in this respect in the last five-year term, and leaders against immigration must be put at the head of the Union. And if this is achieved, the other five content elements of the seven-point programme can be achieved, so that the admission of migrants will not be mandatory, they will not allow anyone into Europe without a valid card, there will be no migrant cards and migrant visas, George Soros' immigration support activities will be reduced, and discrimination will not affect anyone in Europe because of his Christian faith and religion. If we look at the results of the elections in the European Parliament, it is clear that people also wanted to change in Europe, they were not satisfied with the direction given by parties that have traditionally been mainstream and are a majority. More than half of the 751 seats come from only six major Member States: Germany, Spain, Italy, France, Poland, United Kingdom. Look at the results, everywhere parties that disagree with the direction where Europe's leaders have led the continent in the last five years have won or strengthened. Besides, what do we see in the Hungarian Parliament? On the one hand, the opposition is concerned about Fidesz's support. We have heard quite surreal remarks, you are in a state of denial. In addition to higher participation, it is more votes, higher voting rates and more mandates that represent the election results of Fidesz-KDNP. With this, they won the elections with great support. The other argument we always hear is that people are stupid and only voted for opposition parties for various decoying operations. This is an old Marxist terminology introduced by the SZDSZ into the history of the post-system change parliament, that there is a direction in history that must be represented by the top team, and the problem is that people do not support these utopias. People don't like utopias, people stand on the ground of reality, and they don't like marxist-competitor theories. So I would also like to put this idea to the attention of opposition representatives, especially the representatives of Jobbik, who have achieved one of the worst results in their history by 6 percent. Their support has fallen 14 percent compared to last year's elections. It is of particular interest that even the Hungarian Two-tailed Dog Party has preceded you in Budapest, and a joke party is ahead of you. So what representation can we expect from you in Brussels? Probably nothing. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-05-27-34	According to the order of the speeches before the agenda, Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group, on behalf of the LMP. Here you go.
u2019-05-27-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. It was interesting to hear the Secretary of State's speech, specifically such election mathematics and political analysis. I just don't understand the basis on which the Secretary of State analyses the results of the Fidesz-KDNP or the results of a opposition party. But then let's get back to the content of the comment before the agenda. I would also like to start with this comment and my speech before the agenda with my thanks. I would also like to thank again all Hungarian voters who participated in the election. In any case, high participation is joyful, it is extremely important that so many felt the need to express their intentions in this way. And again, I would like to thank the voters of LMP for leaving, that despite the many hardships and the rest, they have gone and voted for Hungary's Green Party. And I would also like to thank, from this Parliament, all our activists, our members, for their sacrifices, which have been honestly carried out in this campaign. In response to the previous speakers, we have had a lot of discussions over the past few years on the results, the balance of European integration, and how successfully the Hungarian government, or the European representatives who took the seats in the colours of the Hungarian governing parties, has represented our national interests, and we will obviously continue to discuss how successfully they will do so in their present situation, in their position in European politics. But I think that we should talk about the most important issues of fate that will determine the future of the European Union, the future of Europe in the coming period, and will have a huge impact on Hungary, the entire Hungarian nation. You spoke about the issue of migration during the campaign and in your speeches today. And what we have said many times here in Parliament and in other forums is that we agree perfectly with the fact that the real action and outcome of dealing with the migration crisis, the real management of this, the exploration of the causes and the elimination of the causes are a matter of fate for the whole of Europe, Hungary. This is quite clear, and I think there is a very broad consensus here, if not a complete consensus in the Hungarian Parliament. I, on the other hand, in this Parliament and in my work in Brussels, while I was a member of the Committee of the Regions, have found that the government has not said a word about the real causes of migration, and therefore has not made any proposals, even according to its own weight, so that we can address these reasons. And you have quite rightly spoken about the promotion, recognition and protection of Christian European values. They talked about the really serious problems that we are experiencing in Western Europe regarding integration. And I also acknowledge and experience that these problems, the issue of integration, are treated as a taboo subject of many powerful political parties or families of parties. So it is important to put these issues on the table, only when they talk about this, migration, integration problems, how can they get from the other side, that climate change is called a sort of serial magic. I very much hope that political statements from fidesz politicians will be made, but you also know that in the next period climate change can lead millions and tens of millions to Europe. Then what are you going to do about it? So it is clear that illegal immigration must be stopped, that Europe's external borders must be protected, and that we also agree perfectly that immigration policy must remain national. [[14.40]] But in order to do this, not only at home and not at European level, at the level of the European Union, but globally, we need to take responsibility and take steps to counter the effects of climate change. In addition to our huge failure, LMP has been able to demonstrate so much success that at least at the level of communication, we have been able to bring this issue to the public. It is obvious, and it is clear from the results that we have not been able to convert this into votes, and yes, we have seen the decision of the Hungarian voters with due humility, and the proper conclusion was made by the LMP leadership yesterday. But again, I would like to remind all elected MEPs that they have a huge responsibility, and in addition to this responsibility, I wish them good work to represent Hungarian national interests with every move, every decision they make. Thank you.
u2019-05-27-36	State Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2019-05-27-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, At the beginning of his speech, he said why the conclusions of the election were analysed by the pro-government State Secretarys and then you stepped into the analysis of the elections. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: He represents a party, not the government! Dr. László László Keresztes: And I was quite self-critical!]] We hope that we have that right, too. [[Noise.]] We have the right, as do you, to analyse and conclude the very important decision of yesterday in the Hungarian Parliament. We really conclude that people have strengthened the policy that Fidesz-KDNP has conducted, confirming that immigration must be stopped. The most tragic thing for LMP is that they fell out of the European Parliament at the exact time when the masses of European voters said that they wanted other European policies to be different in Europe, but this was sent to Brussels not through the LMP, the May Other through the Politics, but here in Hungary through the Fidesz-KDNP, because the last few years, honourable Member, within the framework of the national representation that you considered important, and we also consider it important to fight the course of conflicts arising from these interests. You are here to tell us how important it is to represent the interests of the nation, but when we are subject to any procedure, the entire opposition is always on the side of the monitoring committees, reports, Sargentinis and the like that attacking Hungarians as one person. How is it that one minute you are talking about Hungarian national interest representatives and the next you are switching to the other side and introducing Hungarian people to attackers like they should be followed? It also shows that this is perhaps the policy from which people did not ask, this policy of the Hungarian opposition, which has always advocated various investigations against the Hungarian people in every case, in Brussels. I would not say to you, honourable Member, but to those who spoke before you, that we reject, in the strongest terms, what you have said here, and what my colleagues of State Secretary have already referred to, that they call the hundreds of thousands and millions of people who voted for Fidesz-KDNP brainwashed in Bangón's tradition. We didn't put any pejorative adjectives on those who voted for your parties, even if we disagree with them, in a smaller or larger proportion, in the case of a few tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands. You, on the other hand, who like to show yourself to the champions of tolerance, who say that there is aggressive rhetoric on the government side, and you are representatives of consensus or finer manners, and you here in Parliament have said four or five times that the supporters of the governing party are all brainwashed people and not fully aware of their decision to support Fidesz and KDNP. This is also evidence of their democratic attitude, and also of their position towards respect for human dignity. I most definitely ask for it on my behalf and on behalf of hundreds of thousands and millions of people who supported Fidesz-KDNP to call anyone brainwashed in Hungary and thus those who were our supporters the day before the election. Honourable Congressman, You were talking about climate change. Apparently, he wasn't on Fidesz-KDNP's national journey, which took place in the weeks before the election. We held hundreds of election meetings in countless parts of the country. In all of them, we have also demonstrated exactly what you have just missed here, how climate change and the loss of fresh water resources will further stimulate migration, beyond the incredible population explosion in the Middle East, the incredible population explosion in North Africa, which in one century will tenfold the population of some countries, which will obviously start if migration support organisations are financed from Brussels and they start to migrate to Europe illegally, and here in Europe, the migration situation will become even more critical. Honourable Congressman, What you missed, we talked to every single voter, I mean, of all those who came to our forums, so we want to deal with this issue completely complexly. However, we also consider it a question of fate, and so did the people, which is why there is an excellent participation here and elsewhere, so there is a great deal of movement in many other countries in relation to the elections to the European Parliament. I don't think I should, but at least in your party there was a consequence of what your party had achieved, while others just said that I wanted to move forward with the momentum they had brought on the previous Sunday. What I can tell you as a conclusion is what is in the European Parliament elections [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] We have been given a task, and we would like to continue this task, even at the cost of conflict, but also to carry it out. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-05-27-38	István Hiller, on behalf of the MSZP, is next. Here you go.
u2019-05-27-39	Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Dear House, First of all, on behalf of the MSZP faction, I thank all those who took part in yesterday's European Parliament vote here in Hungary and throughout the European Union. I think it is good for all Democrats that more people have gone than last time, that 43% of voters have participated in the national and more than 50 percent in the average of the European Union. I congratulate everyone who has won a mandate and will be a Member of the European Parliament during the coming term. I sincerely hope that you will all be in the best interest of our country. What is in our country's interest, however, is worth talking about. On the day after the elections to the European Parliament, honourable Members and Members, beyond the first evaluations and give-and-takes, perhaps it is worth going a little deeper. It is worth going deeper because you can understand that now, the XXI. In the second decade of the century and in the coming period, what is really in our country's interest. I can tell you that every time in our history, when we have a Western European orientation organization, whatever it is in history, we have been able to belong, it has always been more beneficial to our country than detrimental. Although we have been ripped out of this community of St. Stephen's and since then, I must say that when we were able to make our decisions, we were part of this orientation and joined. But since we judge the interests of our country differently, it may be worth telling you how we feel about it. It is in our country's interest to be at the centre and centre of the European main policy, everything that strengthens our country is useful to this end, and everything that weakens it is not in our country's best interests. Yesterday's elections to the European Parliament have brought all previous opinions, whether they are propagandaist or true, that there will be a decisive breakthrough against the political forces that have so far taken place, and this opinion has failed because this has not happened. Christian democrats, social democrats and greens will be a decisive and decisive majority in this European Parliament. The MEP will sit in the S&D Group of the European Socialist Party. It is indisputable that this faction will be a crucial part of decision-making, central decision-making, as the Party of the European Socialists can and will form the second strongest faction in the whole of the European Union. [[14.50]] I think it is in our country's interest that with this kind of centre, which, in this case, is a future cooperation between Christian democrats, social democrats and greens, we can keep our country in the centre. And what brings it out or removes it is the risk of drifting to the periphery. As in the Middle Ages power was the earth, the XXI. In the century, the knowledge acquired. And yet, the knowledge acquired comes to the youngest generations in an organized form through IT and education. It is no coincidence that the word "education or education" has not been mentioned in today's reports on one occasion, because in this regard, I must say that much can be said for their performance over the last three quarters of a decade, but that it is successful and it has made their expectations, it is not. And this is very much linked to a Europe in which we believe. We believe in a Europe that is based on peace, which can continue to be the foundation for development, a social Europe, a Europe in which young people are happy to grow up, where men and women are equal. Thank you so much for listening.
u2019-05-27-40	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-05-27-41	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, There is one thing that seems to be agreed between us: we agree that we are committed Europeans and that we also consider EU membership important. But we certainly think differently about what this means in everyday political struggles. And here's the difference in attitude between us. We think it is the right attitude to draw attention to the European crisis signs, all that started as an economic crisis and then became an identity crisis, which was really brought to light by the migration crisis. We would like to speak frankly about this, because we think that if we could not talk about it, it would lead us to what happened in Britain. And we also want Europe to be able to renew if necessary, and this is what is needed now. Honourable Congressman, I find it strange from the point of view that you are speaking before the agenda, that it is not said by those who bear the main responsibility for the results of the MSZP yesterday. It's an obvious escape from real responsibility, and it's not for you. The strange thing that happened to me this morning was that I almost agreed with former Congresswoman Ildikó Lendvai, who in a TV interview said that yesterday's election result for MSZP was a six out of ten strike. I didn't agree with him because I think it's a nine out of ten, but the lack of a mandate would have been more serious. Let us say what everyone thinks: the MSZP is in big trouble, especially after yesterday's election, and this is because of themselves, and there is a reason why the MSZP has achieved its worst result since the change of regime. We are well aware that security was at the heart of this election, which was the main topic, not only in our country, but throughout Europe. For years, the MSZP has been pursuing a policy that ignores or denies this phenomenon, the appreciation of security. It all started with one of your representatives calling it a fake problem, which is the biggest risk for Europe today. That was in 2015, four years since then, and even in the current campaign, they said that this was not a problem. And while they denied it all then and now deny it, they voted for virtually everything that is harmful to security in Europe, especially for Hungary. It was denied before the Hungarians, and it was voted sloppyly in Brussels. As regards the question of livelihoods: the fact is that your party practically offered the Hungarians a light version of what Ferenc Gyurcsány's party proposed, that we give important powers to Brussels, and that will increase wages, pensions or family support. No one could have meant that. I am pleased that you have mentioned that you will join the Socialist Group, whose top candidate was Mr Timmermans. Mr Timmermans said, among other things, that there should be an 18-percent corporation tax across Europe. This would mean that corporate tax would double in Hungary. Then there wouldn't be any wage increases like you're demanding. Then what else did Mr Timmermans say? Society will become diverse everywhere in the world, and Central Europeans will get used to it. He also said that migration is important, of course, but this cannot be solved with walls and fences. And I could list this line, Congressman. You're behind a top candidate who represents this. And one last thing. You and we also think very differently about the world, about European cooperation. We believe in a Europe of nations. But no difference of opinion can be a reason to launch millions. Congressman Hiller, I know this style is far from yours, but please forward it to your fellow parties that it doesn't fit. I can't handle ratting. So, when you have a breath of time in the struggle for survival, please consider apologizing; it could be a very important moment for a fresh start. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-05-27-42	The last among the speeches before the agenda is Mr János Halász. Here you go.
u2019-05-27-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Perhaps we can agree here in this House that yesterday there was an important election in Europe, and the importance of this election was felt by the voters. More people than ever participated in the elections of MEPs, 43.37 percent participation. With greater participation than ever before, Hungary has proved that we are a European nation, a European country, we have a place in Europe, and Europe is also our country. Special thanks should be paid to those who have left, took part in the vote, and thank those who have voted for us in particular. Thank you, too, for those who have been carrying the entire campaign on their backs for weeks, our campaign. Thank you to our tens of thousands of activists for walking the streets, the houses, knocking, calling, fighting on the Internet for our common cause, working through, working the weeks behind us, and doing a huge job. They too, in particular, owe us the victory of the 2019 European Parliament elections. Thank you very much. We won a record victory with record participation. We all know that a new era has begun with migration and migration in European politics, so we can safely say that we have won an epochal victory. For us Hungarians, European elections are particularly important, because not only we but also Hungarian communities across the border will be there in Brussels and together we will represent the interests of the entire Hungarian nation. Thank you for the votes across the border and congratulations on access to the RMDSZ. This election victory is an assignment. The Hungarians have entrusted us with three things. Firstly, by stopping immigration throughout Europe, and secondly, by protecting the Europe of nations, and, thirdly, by protecting Christian culture in Europe. Hungary will also be the first for us in Brussels, and we will work with everyone who wants to stop immigration. Yesterday, it was revealed that people in Hungary think that there is a need for change in Brussels, that we need leaders in Brussels who represent the interests of European people, that we need leaders who respect European nations and that we need leaders who are proud of our two thousand-year-old Christian European culture. Yesterday's election also showed that people in Hungary want unity and unity. More than 52 percent of voters voted for the Fidesz-KDNP list. This means that much more people voted for us than for all the other parties, that is, Hungary has formed an unprecedented unity thanks to the government's work over the past nine years. This gives us a good chance for the future. We, in accordance with the mandate of the electorate, go this way. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-05-27-44	Mr. Csaba Dömötör has the floor again. [[15.00]]
u2019-05-27-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The first word is thanks; on behalf of the government, we would also like to thank everyone who had the right to vote yesterday and took part in the election, thus strengthening Hungarian democracy. Special thanks to volunteers who went from house to house without saving energy and time, called and organised forums; their work is included in yesterday's results. The message that Hungary sent yesterday can be heard throughout Europe. The result of the election is clear: Hungarians do not want Europe to give up its roots and change beyond recognition; they do not want strategic rights out of our hands; neither do they want them to be represented by people who hobbyously oppose their will in Brussels. This election will be analysed in many ways, and the opposition will also say many things, but let us be respectful of one thing in the minutes: Fidesz-KDNP has never been supported by as many people in the European elections as it was yesterday. It is clear from this and from the participation data that we do not just believe that yesterday's most important European election has been the most important. In such a European election, it is always one of the most important questions that the governing parties are strengthened by voters or, on the contrary, they are given a yellow card. The fact is, Fidesz was awarded over 52 percent of the voters' trust yesterday. It's a big confirmation. This will be necessary, as negotiations on EU leaders are about to begin. Discussions about the new Commission leader will be launched this week, among other things. Either way, Hungary and the Prime Minister's word will have greater power with yesterday's results. As stated in our programme, we would like to see leaders at the head of the EU institutions who hear the voice of the people of Europe and regard security as a fundamental issue. And another word about the opposition. Yesterday it also turned out that what the opposition today represents in Hungary has no majority support. The Hungarians do not want red tape over nation states, they do not want others to decide about us and they do not want an open society; on the basis of the results, they do not like it when they stand up. Rather, we leave it to the analysts to examine the processes that are taking place in the opposition space, but let us find one thing: today, the attitude of the opposition change is stronger in Hungary than ever before. We would like to express our hope that the opposition parties will learn, besides today's bloody speeches they will learn from the results, and at least in the most important national cases they will be able to side with the Hungarians. Of course, as long as the main leader of the opposition is called Ferenc Gyurcsány, we are not so optimistic. As far as we are concerned, the government continues to work for a stronger Europe, with a growing Hungary; security is the most important prerequisite for this. So what was a great victory for us yesterday was a lot of work and responsibility from today. The government is ready for this task. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-05-27-46	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present further speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2019-05-27-47	Dear Parliament, Péter Ungár, LMP; Péter Ágh, Fidesz; László Hajdu, DK; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Félix Farkas spokesperson. On the day before the agenda tomorrow, the following representatives came forward: Zsolt Gréczy, DK; Tamás Mellár, Dialogue; Lajos Korózs, MSZP; László Szászfalvi, KDNP; Péter Ungár, LMP; Dániel Kárpát Z, Jobbik; Gabriella Selmeczi, Fidesz. He applied for a speech after the agenda tomorrow: Péter Ungár, LMP; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik.
u2019-05-27-48	Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time shall be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear House, In the absence of a committee agreement, on the basis of the motion tabled by the President, we now decide on the Commission's discussion and decision-making of the proposals. I ask the Honourable Parliament to invite the designated Judicial Committee to report on the activities of the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information in 2018, B/4542. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has asked the Committee to take its decision by 103 votes in favour, 31 against and without abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament to invite the designated Economic Committee to be consulted by the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office Parliamentary Report 2018, B/4691. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has asked the Committee to take its decision by 107 votes in favour, 36 against and without abstentions. H/6241 on the establishment of an ad hoc committee for the members of the Constitutional Court The decision to make a proposal for a decision. No amendments have been tabled to the proposal, and in the decision we will decide on the submitted text of the proposal for a decision. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Parliament decides without debate. So I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/6241. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The proposal was adopted by 107 votes in favour, 37 against and without abstentions. I would like to draw the heads of the factions' attention to the fact that, as the House Committee said at its meeting last week, you now have one hour to make a personal proposal for officials and members of the ad hoc committee. The decision on the personal proposal will take place after the interpellations. Dear House, The election of the Commission official and member will follow. S/6245. They were able to get to know the proposal. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present this nonetheless.
u2019-05-27-49	5/2018 on the establishment of committees, election of officials and members of the Parliament Section 1 of the parliamentary decision is amended as follows: Parliament to the Defence and Police Committee Márta Demeter, LMP, Dr Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik, Vice-President of the Committee; Dr. Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik, instead of Potocsáné Kőrösi Anita, Jobbik, elected to the Committee. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption.
u2019-05-27-50	Dear House, We now return to the decision. I ask the Parliament to accept S/6245. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has adopted the personal proposal by 143 votes to four, without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Now, at 3:09 p.m., we move on to interpellation negotiations. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:. Planned population exchange in Hungary? It's an address. The Interpellation will be answered by a representative of the Ministry of Finance with responsibility and competence according to the subject on behalf of the Prime Minister. The congressman has the floor.
u2019-05-27-51	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to reassure the Secretary of State of the Party of Government that, in all national matters, we knew where our place was, even when the defence had to be ordered to the border lock, even when we made the proposal to show zero tolerance for all forms of immigration, immigration, against the construction of your settlement bond, and therefore to exclude corruption methods. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] We must now speak in the same way about the planned process of population exchange that is emerging today. Unfortunately, in parallel with the deteriorating population indicators and emigration data, the phenomenon that hundreds of thousands of people were admitted to Hungary, essentially with government permission, with contributions to workers whose need raises at least question marks, but certainly questions. [[15.10]] At the same time, the number of our countrymen who have emigrated from Hungary is over one million, mostly out of necessity or even considering this emigration. I do not have to say that if, say, we measure this figure to losses after 56, then, in light of all this, how tragic Hungary's situation and Hungary's prospects are. And if we were to ask Szentgotthárd, Tapolca, Tiszaújváros, the population of many other settlements about their desire to share their habitat with thousands of alien cultures, who appear to come here at a cheaper price, they would take a cheaper job, not sure they would have a yes answer. However, if someone is browsing not only the statistics of KSH, but also the statistics of the Immigration and Nationality Office, they find that the number of migrant workers who do not see any market evidence in the vast majority of cases that they may be required to be here is growing by thousands a year. After all, at the moment, the announcement of foreign workers in the sector, whether consciously or intentionally, is decided upon, and in which sectors this cannot be imagined, to announce to friends and market players of the government. Therefore, our question is clear: let the government accept the opposition to examining where it believes such introductions are and where they are not. If you think there is, then come up, tell us honestly what kind of pressure, what need to lead the Government of Hungary to contribute to a conscious exchange of people; if not, then the system to date should be reviewed. Jobbik is of the opinion that, in a very clear and simple way, by sector, it is necessary to review, if necessary, by licence, how the arrivals, the stakeholders could get to Hungary, what they could do here, who invited them, and what corruption mechanisms this took place. So I expect a meaningful answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-05-27-52	Thank you, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Sándor Bodó responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-05-27-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Congressman! I would like to inform you that there is no exchange of people in Hungary, and that, using that term, I am reminded of a very bad historical memory. It might be worth considering whether this concept should even appear. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You used that phrase...]] And as far as the Hungarian employee system is concerned, I believe that there are substantial errors in what you have said. The Hungarian economy is doing better, it seems: there is more than 5 per cent economic growth, nearly 4.5 million people are working in Hungary, the unemployment rate is constantly falling. In other words, these are indicators that I think many of Europe's countries would like to acquire. Of course, this is not on its own, so very serious things must be done to the Government of Hungary. One of the most important is the activation of labour reserves. I would like to emphasise and stress that we want to fill the missing jobs primarily with Hungarian workers, and to this end we have launched labour market reform programmes in counties with a higher unemployment rate than the national average, namely Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg, Hajdú-Bihar, Borsod, Heves, Nógrád and Szolnok counties, so we have launched a labour market reform programme with which we will explore all those who still want to work. On the other hand, there is a training programme that makes them fit, and then we want to employ them in the primary labour market in order to establish a more direct relationship with employers. The evidence of this is also that I hope you do not argue that public employment is constantly declining in Hungary, and that more and more people are finding jobs in the primary labour market. This is certainly a positive trend, and we also need to see that in the framework of the Action Plan for the Protection of Jobs, tax incentives that can be used by businesses and job support all help more and more people to be able to work in the competitive sphere. The modernisation of the vocational and adult education system is a very important part of this programme. That's what we have in mind. And whether within the school system or outside the school system, there is important work to be done here, and visible results are needed as soon as possible. According to the European Union's employment rules, the employer's job positions where no worker can be found are primarily on the domestic market and then waits for candidates from the EU's employees. It may not be a great surprise to tell you that in Hungary there are indeed foreign citizens working, but legally. The sentences in your interpellation suggest that this is thoughtful, untraceable, to someone's liking, well, that's not what this is about at all. In particular, the fact is that foreign workers who apply for a job that cannot be filled by domestic or EU workers have a very serious pre-screening, namely that they have adequate qualifications, are in good health, not to mention national security risk. These are examined by the competent offices, and if these conditions are in order and there are no domestic or EU workers, it is possible that they may take up work in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-05-27-54	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-05-27-55	Mr President, Dear House, Before I express myself on this matter, I would like to thank the Secretary of State, although this will be surprising, his confession. Thank you for the fact that we could not have had a meaningful debate, because you acknowledged what I said: there are hundreds of thousands of foreign workers in Hungary, and I do not know what EU-based employment and promotion you mean, Mr State Secretary, when cyrillic letters appear in Kecskemé, Hatvan's shopping units, when Indian, Pakistani and Bangladeshi workers also appear in the Hungarian countryside. I don't know which EU Member State you were thinking about in the meantime. You don't have to go far for orientation. If you get out here in the hallway [[It's pointing to the right.]] The Parliamentary Office may hold an excellent professional material of the Parliamentary Information Service. This shows that more than 87,000 persons admitted to Hungary with residence permits and permanent residence cards have been called in by this government, and another 32,000 reports [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] listed on various residence permits. [[The president's ringing again.]] Therefore, I cannot accept such an answer as a decent patriot...
u2019-05-27-56	Thank you, Congressman...
u2019-05-27-57	...and I also ask my fellow Members to make this madness...
u2019-05-27-58	Your time frame is over, Congressman, I'm sorry.
u2019-05-27-59	... don't support it in any way. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches. Interjection from the same place: That's right!]]
u2019-05-27-60	Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 113 votes in favour, 34 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: - How much does the health care of Ukrainian citizens in Hungary cost and the pension paid by Hungary? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Korózs has the floor.
u2019-05-27-61	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, not only in the environment of the Ukrainian-Hungarian border, but in the whole country, this unblessed state is fermenting. It is well known, I think, to my fellow Members, that, back in the early sixties, an agreement was reached between Hungary and the Soviet Union on social security, and in this context, it is possible to apply for a pension in another country, even if there is no citizenship, but a residence address, in that country. It is also known to my fellow Members that, in connection with our accession to the European Union, almost all of the surrounding countries had to be broken down because in the European Union we have moved to the so-called pro-rata pension calculation technique, where everyone pays only their share to the rightholder. This means that if a person acquires a period of service in several countries, each country will only pay a percentage of his or her pension rights. The situation is different in the case of Ukraine than in the case of a former Soviet Member State, all the more so, because by 2010, after about 2 to 2.5 years of negotiations, the Ukrainian and Hungarian parties agreed on everything, only documents should have been recorded in such a way that both parties signed, submitted to their Parliaments and put them into law. [[15.20]] Unfortunately, this has not happened in Hungary, and the abuse with which Ukrainian citizens have been abused is now systematic, but I would like to stress that it is not necessary to be a Hungarian citizen to simply request such a request for a Hungarian address, dozens, many times hundreds, thousands, and thus to obtain a Hungarian pension in Zahony, Lónya, Beregsurány, Kispaladon. Please, it is not uncommon for the population to double, or even for Kispalad as far as I know, to triple the population as a result of dozens or hundreds of people entering a fictitious address. As a result, I ask the Secretary of State how many citizens there are in Hungary, more precisely how many clients in Hungary who are receiving a Hungarian pension as Ukrainian citizens, how much it costs to the Hungarian pension fund, because in recent years I have always received an evasive response to my written questions. I would like to ask the same question in relation to health care, as this treaty also gives me the opportunity to do so. How much money does the health care of former Ukrainian citizens cost Hungary? In the environment of the border, we know about it, people who use healthcare who do not speak a word of Hungarian, obviously they are not of Hungarian origin. As a result, what was the capacity increase? I look forward to your reply.
u2019-05-27-62	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-05-27-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We can say that you continue where you left off. Obviously, it is not the pension fund or the health fund that is at the heart of your interest, but it is to stimulate feelings towards Hungarians across the border, which is an uncomprehensible political direction from a national political point of view, but both DK and MSZP are attached to this line and are trying to guarantee some kind of political awareness or survival in public speaking by trying to give a mood to Hungarians across the border in connection with these agreements. You do this in connection with a treaty, honourable Member, which, as you said, was concluded in 1962, so it was concluded under the pro-state rule of your predecessor party. You didn't touch it in your first government cycle, you didn't touch it in your second government cycle, and you didn't touch it in your third government cycle, and now you're asking why this convention is no different, why its content is the same as before. Honourable Congressman, You know this, as you have been informed on many occasions that the Hungarian Government has tried to achieve the amendment and modernisation of this convention in Kiev. If the treaty were to be terminated unilaterally, it might not hurt you, but for us, who are also responsible for Hungarians across the border, it would be a very sensitive point, as it would put hundreds or thousands of Hungarian compatriots across the border in a very, very difficult situation, whether in terms of health care or pension care. We do not want the Hungarians in Transcarpathia, who are already in a very difficult financial situation, to be in a very difficult health and social situation, even after such a unilateral decision, to be in a more difficult position, since they are often treated as second-rate citizens in Ukraine as Hungarians. If even the motherland doesn't try to help them in their homes, so the Transcarpathians have bad public relations, then who can they count on to help them? That is why we have made several attempts to renegotiate this agreement and we can be confident, because there is a new President in Ukraine. We hope that this will also bring with it the possibility that we will be able to renegotiate this agreement, which will be equally responsible for the Hungarians in Transcarpathia, and will replace this old agreement with modern one, which, as I said, is your predecessor, and none of your governments have given up or changed in 12 years. At the same time, compliance with the law is constantly being examined by the Hungarian authorities. They examine whether the address given by each person is a residential building at all, whether the building is used and is suitable for someone to use it as their home, moved to that property with final intent, and use this property as a residential property with the consent of the authorities. For this reason, the Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County Government Office has checked these conditions in 470 cases, in 48 cases the Hajdú-Bihar County Government Office has checked these conditions, in 39 cases the Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County Government Office, and in the event that these conditions do not exist, the Government Offices will always reject pension applications, honourable Member. As regards the excess capacity of hospitals, the National Centre for Public Health shall keep an accurate record of this, and you may also monitor and view this capacity register on the National Centre for Public Health. And what you have done to the pensioners by taking a month's pension, or by trying to tax the pension of pensioners with the word consolidated taxation in all their government periods, was indeed an assassination against Hungarian pensioners. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-05-27-64	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-05-27-65	Thank you very much. I don't accept the answer. Mr. Secretary, I didn't say that there shouldn't be such a contract, but that there shouldn't be a contract with such content. Of course, there must be such a contract, because Hungarian workers can work in Ukraine, Ukrainian citizens can work in Hungary, and they must be treated if they are in an accident, or if they are in service, they must pay their pensions. This is about people coming here using mafia methods not just for retirement, Mr. Secretary of State. [[He shows up his cell phone.]] It's right here on my phone, and I've taken hundreds of photos of real estate that clearly shows no one's lived in it because it's been uninhabited for at least 20 years. In fact, the local mayor tells us that 17 people are logged into this house, it's called a Ukrainian house, and if we go down a street in a village, you can find 20 of these, not one, twenty in one street, Mr. Secretary of State. This is about the fact that by mafia-like methods, billions of people are skied out of the pockets of Hungarian pensioners, assisted by the government; it is not about Hungarians across the border, it is about the suppers. Thank you very much. I don't accept your answer.
u2019-05-27-66	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 113 votes in favour, 32 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, László Varju, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:. When will you decide the fate of the property of the Árpád Hospital in Újpest? It's an address. By responding to the interpellation, Prime Minister Sándor Pintér has appointed Minister of the Interior, who is competent and competent according to the subject. At the request of Minister Károly Kontra, State Secretary, he responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-05-27-67	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Dear House, In 2010, the renovation of the Árpád Hospital in Újpest was completed, and then the government decided to close the institution for two years. Újpest has never had one of its four health institutions, and it is particularly incomprehensible to citizens why it was important to close a newly renovated hospital. The building has been empty since then, and seven years have not been enough not only to decide its fate, but also to ask the Újpest people what they would like to see there in the city centre. I can tell you, Mr. Secretary, the Újpest people want a hospital. The mayor of Fidesz knows that, he knows his need, but he never said that, and it seems like he's giving room to the higher order. Instead, it's something else. At the end of last year, there was a government proposal to set up a homeless home for elderly homeless people who are already incapable of self-sufficiency, the government voted for HUF 271 million for this purpose. In turn, the government's decision, which took place later in the quarter, provides for the transformation of the property into a workhouse, which raises its planning and construction costs significantly to HUF 1300 million, i.e. five times the previous amount. Mr. Secretary. Anouilh's Becket drama has a famous saying, and surely you know it: "For us, Holy Father, it gives us great strength to not know exactly what we want. The deep insecurity of intentions creates an amazing freedom of maneuvering. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Mr. Secretary. It is undisputed that you have lived far away with the freedom of manoeuvre, but the deep insecurity of your intentions regarding the fate of this property suggests that your decisions are in the least public, much more related to your personal friends. [[15.30]] As a representative of the citizens of Újpest, I therefore call on you to withdraw the government decision on the establishment of a working hostel and to consult the citizens of the district on the future of the building. That's why I'm asking you: what are the reasons for shutting down the renovated center of gravity hospital, letting the property die for seven years, and then suddenly deciding to turn into a homeless home, and a few months later to turn it into a work hostel? What if, for once, they made a decision that was good for the locals, instead of serving friends close to you? Willing to withdraw this government decision to the most interested [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] to serve the interests of the people of the district? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the lines of DK and LMP.]]
u2019-05-27-68	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Károly Kontra will respond to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-05-27-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The Ministry of Interior provided information on the exploitation as a working hostel to the management of the municipality of Újpest, and I took part in this information myself. This function is not against the interests of residents, it is not about deviant groups, it is about working people. In the future, we will continue to cooperate with the municipality in order to develop solutions during the construction and exploitation process that are primarily in the interests of the people of Újpest. Against recovery as a homeless home, Annex IV is amended as follows: The district council has raised objections, and therefore recovery as a homeless shelter will not take place, honourable Member. I would like to tell you and this House that Mayor Zsolt Wintermantel, the mayor of Újpest, has done everything he can to represent the interests of the Újpest people. Our aim is to use the territory in a multi-directional way, and the municipality would create a so-called swallow house for young married people living in the district, which could provide them with support for the start of life until they can obtain own property. The government has decided on the exploitation of the property of the former Árpád Hospital in Újpest, which aims at 1194/2019. clearly and clearly appear in a government decision. The written question concerning the plans was already fully answered on 8 May 2019. Again and again in front of this House, the exploitation and renovation of the vacant property of the former Árpád Hospital is in the public interest, which also serves municipal development purposes. In addition to preventing further deterioration of the state of buildings, one of the typical buildings of the municipality of Újpest and its environment can be renewed. Since 2010, economic performance has been increasing, and developments in Budapest are also an attraction for the workforce. The construction of the working accommodation is in the interests of workers who travel from the countryside to Budapest to work here permanently. According to the government's decision, these workers will be able to obtain a reduced price for working accommodation, which can help to further increase employment. Honourable Congressman, I've answered all your questions. The government has a firm decision, the Újpest municipality is regularly informed, and we ask the IV. The leaders of the local government of the district, and we cooperate with each other. We trust that these solutions are in the interests of the Újpestians. If you think so, please accept my answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-05-27-70	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I ask the congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-05-27-71	Secretary of State, let's speak Hungarian. It is clear that the government's decision to make is not in any way in the interests of the Újpestians. The mayor, Zsolt Wintermantel, didn't represent the interests of the Újpestians. We need a hospital in this building, the Újpest people want a hospital, decent health care, because what you're doing isn't! That is why we demand that the government decision be withdrawn and that they comply with the demand that Newpesten be at least one hospital! That's what I want you to do, and that's why I want you to do everything you can. The Újpest people want a hospital, and you're resisting that. It's time to withdraw the government decision. That's what we all demand. Thank you very much. I don't accept your answer. [[Applause in the lines of DK and LMP.]]
u2019-05-27-72	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply, so I ask you to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 111 votes in favour, 30 against, with two abstentions. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, a representative of the LMP, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:, Will the government suspend the executions and evictions and make a law on the recalculation of foreign currency loans? It's an address. By responding to the interpellation, the Prime Minister appointed Minister for Justice László Trócsányi, who is responsible and competent according to the subject; he responds to the interpellation at the request of the Minister, Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2019-05-27-73	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, We sincerely regret that we could not be of any help to you beyond the information. By feeling your situation, we wish you, on behalf of Prime Minister, perseverance and all the best. This is the sentence that the Prime Minister's correspondence department concluded when a mother of several children came to him before the eviction. He stood there before the eviction, and the government could practically not provide him with any help, no support, even though I think who else could help these needy families if it was not the Hungarian government or even the Prime Minister of Hungary. Under the administration of Fidesz, it seems perfectly normal for a family of many children to be left on the streets, to be cut off by banks and real estate speculators, the government does nothing, does not create legislation to protect families. A significant proportion of evictions are due to foreign exchange debt. In this regard, I think it must be said that the European Court of Justice has made two decisions over the last two years, which clearly shows that the Hungarian Government has attempted to solve the foreign exchange credit problem incorrectly, contrary to EU law. The government's decisions were in the interest of the banks in 2015, and only a small part of the debtors were allowed to withdraw from the foreign exchange credit problem in an acceptable manner. The essence of the two judicial decisions is that, on the one hand, risks, including exchange rate risk, must be clearly, in a manner that the debtor can understand, together with the potential impact of the repayments on the borrower's existential position in the contract, and let's face it, these contracts were not concluded that way. On this basis, I ask the Secretary of State that the government is willing to suspend the executions and evictions immediately. If not, why not? Is it willing to maintain a moratorium on enforcement and eviction at least until the European Court of Justice's obligations arising from its judgments are met by legislation and, if not, why not? Also, in the end, are you willing to legislate on the recalculation of foreign exchange debts, so that the banks which unfairly and murderously pass on the risks to the debtor in their entirety will assume the greater part of these burdens? If he won't do it, why won't he? I look forward to your reply with great respect. Thank you. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2019-05-27-74	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Pál Völner responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-05-27-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that, with regard to the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, it is appropriate to rely on the facts. C-118/17 of the Court of Justice of the Union In its judgment in the Danube case No.2 it is consistently in line with Luxembourg's decisions in the cases of foreign exchange credit in Hungary. It confirms that the basic item recognised by domestic law and the application of the law, Directive 93/13/EEC, is intended to restore the balance between the parties by maintaining the validity of the contract and not by declaring all contracts null and void. [[15.40]] At the same time, foreign exchange authentic laws did not prevent the consumer from asking the court to declare the nullity of the contract or to deduct the consequences of nullity in the case of other grounds of invalidity or reasons. As regards the chain of decisions in Luxembourg, in OTP Bank and OTP Factoring Zrt., the Court of Justice of the Union held that, despite the amendments made by foreign exchange-credit laws, the original contractual terms of the contract, which were not individually negotiated, could be examined for compliance with the Directive. The contract condition for exchange rate risk, which is not subject to legislative amendments, falls within the scope of the Directive and it is not necessary to examine their unfairness unless the national court finds that they have been formulated clearly and intelligibly. We also cannot discuss an unresolved situation in the case of the Danube judgment. It does not prevent a declaration of force until a decision is taken by the determining court to exempt the consumer from the unfair terms of the contract, where appropriate by means of a complete annulment of the contract. On 10 April 2019, the Curia last commented on the issue of unfair terms for exchange rate risk. The Consultation Panel concluded that further binding guidance on the issue should not be given on a general basis by decision of the legal unit. The fairness of exchange rate risk shall be decided individually by the courts after consideration based on the assessment of the overall evidence. Honourable Congressman, We've always looked for the right solution, and we've always been on the side of the citizens. I can assure you how the government has been looking at all the possibilities of providing assistance to the credible. If there is a legitimate, professionally sound proposal, the government will embrace and support its adoption. However, it should be pointed out that when we talk about such a complex issue as housing, such as the issue of loans, we cannot ignore at all what situation we started from. I stress that the Hungarian government has always done everything in its power to alleviate the damage caused by the previous socialist-liberal eras. I would like to inform you that after 2010, we have taken a number of measures to help foreign exchange creditors. With the forints, the era of foreign exchange loans has been completed. Households' exposure to exchange rate risks has virtually ceased, so we have helped 700,000 families. It is also important to mention the introduction of a price barrier, where we were able to limit the amount of repayments at a fixed rate, helping 185 thousand families. In addition, with the institution of final repayment, we were able to exempt 170,000 families from the imprisonment of foreign exchange credit, and at that time I did not even talk about the asset manager, which also helped 35 thousand families. Perhaps these steps also prove that we are always on the side of voters and consumers, the population. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-05-27-76	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask the congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-05-27-77	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, The fact is that the debtors are not at all interested in the outcome of which government's decision, on the basis of which statement of the President of the National Bank, has drifted into this foreign exchange credit crisis. I think they're only interested in the solution. I think, if it's a fact, then let's really stick to the facts. The European Court of Justice states that the contract is valid and only if the risks, including exchange rate risk, are clearly included in the contract, in a manner which is understandable to the debtor, together with the possible effects on the repayments and thus on the borrower's existential position. Let me say that I am sure that Mr. Secretary of State has seen as many foreign exchange credit contracts as I have. And you know it, as I know, that this form doesn't appear in any contract. And I'll probably add that the courts wouldn't be able to process it if suddenly one million currency-credited people came to court. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Because it can only be forced out of court.
u2019-05-27-78	I'm waiting for your answer.
u2019-05-27-79	Since my questions have not been answered in terms of your desire to make any laws on this matter...
u2019-05-27-80	Congressman!
u2019-05-27-81	...so I can't accept your answer. Thank you.
u2019-05-27-82	Thank you. You've gone too far over your time frame, so next time you'll be nice to stick to it. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 114 votes to 31, with 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Sándor Burány, a representative of the Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. Why not prevent evictions? It's an address. In reply to the interpellation, the Prime Minister appointed Minister for Justice László Trócsányi, who is competent and competent according to the subject. At the request of Minister Pál Völner, State Secretary, he responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-05-27-83	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, On April 30th, the eviction moratorium expired, and they started putting people and families on the streets. Based on the aggregated data, more than 3,200 people and families were evicted in Hungary last year, in the year of the so-called families. This number has reached 10,000 in the last three years. Families, singles, elderly, sick, even disabled, came to the streets overnight. Although most families tried to stay with relatives and friends, not everyone managed to do so, not everyone was so lucky. Thus further tragedies have occurred, because in such cases the guardian's office is obliged to take the minor child out of the family and place him, so to speak, in Hungarian: these families were torn apart by the power of the law, as a tragic consequence of evictions. This number is not exactly known in Budapest, as the government agency is hiding these statistics. Last year and two weeks ago, we initiated the convening of the extraordinary meeting of Parliament on this subject, so that at least the most serious problem, the eviction of families, can be helped by law to prevent eviction, and families in such a situation must be placed by the municipality in some kind of social housing. Unfortunately, this proposal could not be accepted for several runs, and there is only one reason for that, and this is called Fidesz-KDNP. The governing parties didn't come to any of the extraordinary meetings. In doing so, they prevented the adoption of these laws and even refused to negotiate or argue about solving the problems of families in the saddest situations. But what do we expect from a government, a governing party, whose prime minister can only tell a family mother with nine children who has been evicted that she can endure and good luck? Dear Secretary of State, So I ask why they refuse to participate or take measures to prevent eviction. Why not help those in trouble, for example, by providing social housing? Is there any action to be taken in this area? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] How many children have been taken from their families in the last eight years as a result of eviction? I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply.
u2019-05-27-84	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Pál Völner responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-05-27-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, First of all, I would like to clarify that the moratorium on eviction has been extended year after year by this Parliament, and we have also adopted the winter extension period. Perhaps the congressman wasn't in the room when these events took place. I would like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that, in relation to evictions and house evacuations, the website of the Hungarian Faculty of Executives of the Court regularly provides statistical data, so that data on the involvement of minors and pensioners could be obtained here, but there is no such statistics. It should be stressed that evacuations take place in different cases in different types of enforcement cases. The data are also published in this structure on the website. The enforcement procedures do not always take place when a bank claim is not paid, but also in the case of other cases such as individual claims, termination of common property, non-payment of child support. You always talk about eviction, and they are traced back to foreign exchange loans, although in most cases the debtor voluntarily fulfils his payment obligation or voluntarily sells the property, in other cases he has other real estate and only in exceptional cases will he or she be discharged or transferred into possession. [[15.50]] Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The government is committed to helping families in crisis. From this point of view, the temporary homes of families are the most important, because they create a home for homelessness, a chance for a lack of hope. Currently, we provide 4,000 seats for families in the temporary homes of families. If the municipality cannot help the family concerned by the question, they can temporarily resolve their housing in the temporary home of the families. The family can request help from the local family and child welfare services or the family and child welfare centre of the district centre to find the right institution. Honourable Congressman, But the only thing you need to see is this responsibility and the crime against society, which the socialist-liberal government allowed you when it allowed you to lend foreign currency... and this government is you, the MSZP and its bastard drive, DK's successors. [[Zsolt Gréczy: 2001!]] I would remind you that the Socialists, after they came to power in 2002, broke their earlier promise to abolish the family tax reduction and abolished the preferential interest-supported loans, and then led hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families into the trap of foreign exchange lending. Then we can remember that from 2008 to 2010, the problem of foreign exchange lending was completely ignored, the loans of the families skyrocketed, the interest rates were gone. I would like to remind you that in 2009, as Prime Minister Gordon Bajnai said, in one of his first interviews, that the property could be sold if it could not sustain it. After all, in 2010, a year after the state failure they created, the MSZP government handed over the government of the country to more than one million Hungarian citizens and they were generally not individuals, but families, more than one million Hungarian families, who were not indebted in their own means of payment, i.e. not forints, but in euros, and predominantly, 90% in Swiss francs. It is also apparent from the text of the interpellation presented by the Member that you represent, and their purpose, whether in the parliamentary convenings or in these interpellations, is to create political scandals alone, and they have never pointed in the direction that would actually help people. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-05-27-86	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-05-27-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, allow me to refresh your memory because you seem to be having memory problems. Foreign currency lending was made possible by the Government of Viktor Orbán in 2001. [[Interventions from opposition benches: That's right!]] The high interest rates are the responsibility of the President of the Central Bank, Járai Zsigmond. [[Uproar and interrogation from the ranks of the governing parties: No, it's not true!]] His interest policy resulted in a drastic difference between the interest rate on foreign exchange loans and the interest rate on other loans in HUF. The third is that we handed the forint over to you in 2010 with strong parameters during the steering process, and you broke it down within months. [[Intercoms from the ranks of the governing parties, including Dr. Bence Rétvári: As your list results were yesterday. So hard.]] If it were the exchange rate of the euro and the Swiss franc, as it was before the change of government in 2010, then the foreign exchange credit problem should not be discussed today. And it's very cynical and vile that you made foreign exchange loans on a market-based basis after carefully tilting the forint. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Therefore, neither his memory is acceptable nor his answer, because he has not said a word about solving the problem. Thank you.
u2019-05-27-88	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 114 votes in favour, 33 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Mónika Dunai, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: It's an address. Congresswoman Mónika Dunai has the floor.
u2019-05-27-89	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, We in Fidesz-KDNP have been working in recent years to strengthen families to give parents and prospective parents as much support as possible to have children to raise children. As a result, families have been receiving increasing support in recent years. It is important for us to make Hungary a family-friendly country where mothers and families with children receive all the support they can to be responsible for taking on and raising children. It is important for us to help young people to have as many children as they want and when they want to. Please allow me to draw attention to some of the family-friendly measures we have taken so far. We introduced the family tax relief, the ged extra, and gave the three-year-old child back to the mothers. We support families' homes with more money than ever before. We help families with more children to reduce taxes, and we also release significant amounts of mortgage debt and student loan debt. Four elements of the seven-point family protection action plan announced in February this year will enter into force on 1 July. As we know, Brussels has made a criticism about one of the main elements of this, the EUR 10 million baby shower support. The European Commission would reduce the guarantee level of the project by referring to EU competition barriers. They attacked baby shower support despite the fact that migrant cards were not raised because of restrictions on competition, even though only one financial institution was involved in Brussels bureaucracy. Ladies and gentlemen, It also shows that a support that does not help migrants but helps Hungarian families is being criticised. For us, Fidesz-KDNP, the criticisms of the introduction of baby shower support in Brussels are unacceptable. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State, in view of the above, how we should expect further criticisms in Brussels about baby shower support. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-05-27-90	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-05-27-91	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I have already spoken here, among the walls of Parliament, about the fact that the Hungarian opposition has an attribute, a very important visualizer, in countries with perhaps more fortunate history than us, that this opposition is not typical of being on the side of the attackers as soon as the country is attacked. As Congresswoman said, how to protect baby shower support from the various competition concerns expressed by the European Commission's Directorate-General for Competition, DK representatives immediately cried out that there were no such criticisms. They did so despite the fact that the Government, after the Commission said that there had been no prior consultation on this issue, published these documents. From 27 February to the first days of May, I recall that there was a written oral procedure in several negotiating rounds, everyone can read and see the texts that summarize the concerns expressed by the Directorate-General. After this was removed, the European Commission spokesperson, who had denied any kind of consultation a few days earlier, said that very constructive discussions were taking place with Hungary on this. It took about three or four days to get caught, but there are politicians in Hungarian politics who are more Brussels than Brussels, because here in Budapest they do not even see the document that everyone can read on the Internet and deny the existence of it. [[There are constant interruptions from DK's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] We remember how families were treated when they were on the government. The tax relief of families with one and two children was abolished during the Gyurcsány government, the three children were reduced, a year of the child's duration was taken, and even recently Tamás Bauer, their politician, said that support for families was a bad direction, and migration should be supported with these funds. However, honourable Member, Hungarian family policy does have its results, as opposed to what the left has done in Hungary. [[16.00]] After all, in 2010 Hungary was in such a position that in terms of the total fertility rate, fertility rate, the number of children born to 200 parents, we were the last of the European Union countries. This was the result of the destruction of eight years of socialist family policy, that there was no country with a worse childbearing index than Hungary. And if we look at the same statistics of the Union, the same statement for last year, we can see that Malta, Spain, Italy, Cyprus, Greece, Portugal, Luxembourg, Croatia, Poland, Finland, Austria and Slovakia are behind Hungary. With eight to nine years of conscious, family-supporting policies, we managed to prevent 12 countries from becoming children. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Never so few children were born! Never so few children.]] Since we want to increase and further improve this desire, it is important that the family protection action plan, announced by the Prime Minister in his annual speech, and the parts of which, so far on the table of Parliament, have not been supported by the Democratic Coalition, the most powerful party and ideological leader of the opposition, so it is obvious that the other parties will also have to swallow it when they are of some sort [[Zsolt Gréczy: We support families and not you!]] I'm going to be politicalized in reorganized cooperation. Baby shower support is an important part of this, which has been challenged by the Competition DG with double standards, to which you referred, honourable Member, since neither the CSOK nor the CSOK loan has previously been criticised, which is a standard form, it works the same way through banks. They give money to migrants on cards, families on state aid [[Gergely Arató: The campaign is over, you don't have to say that anymore!]] they address competition concerns. [[Zsolt Gréczy: You've already lost two thirds!]] This is the double standard, and then we could hear a double speech from them, for they denied it, and they didn't say anything about it. Regardless of this, the government is committed to both the baby shower support, the CSOK loan extension and the reduction of the mortgage on families, in connection with the introduction of multimillion HUF support, the seven-person car purchase discount for large family members. They will enter into force as of 1 July, even in spite of the protests of the Hungarian opposition. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-05-27-92	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask the congresswoman, she accepts the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-05-27-93	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I accept and thank you for the answer. The answer also shows that Hungary's Government is committed to family-friendly politics and governance [[Zsolt Gréczy: There are no children born for that!]] , continued by Fidesz-KDNP since 2010. I ask the Secretary of State to protect the baby shower support until the end, because this is something that Hungarian families need very much. Once again, I accept the answer with thanks. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-05-27-94	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The congresswoman accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Balázs Ander, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance: "Why are pensioners humiliated, and why are pensioners being stolen? It's an address. M In reply to the interpellation, the Prime Minister appointed Miklós Kásler, Minister of Human Resources, who is competent and competent according to the subject. State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation at the request of the Minister. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2019-05-27-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The Hungarian Retirement Parliament recently held its Congress, where 400 delegates from Budapest and 19 counties were represented. In fact, we have become accustomed to the government's view of citizens as subjects, and in the spirit of this spirit, it sees more than two million of our young countrymen as nuisances, burdens and cheaply available voting machines. Although they wanted to hold their meeting in the Parliament, the orange gentlemen did not allow this in a humiliating, impetuous way, so the rapporteur of ELTE in Gólyavár finally accepted the delegates of Hungarian pensioners. The Hungarian population is severely ageing, and the coral is shaken by tectonic transformations. At the time of the birth of those who are now retiring, only 10 percent were over 65, so it is a key question of what and what the old policy of power will be like in the middle of the century when they reach a third. The government wants the elderly to lock the doors of their unheated houses, to push aside uninjured recipes and checks, so that they don't think about why they can only keep in touch with their forced children and grandchildren in the West on the phone, so that they don't wonder why they can easily be stolen into stadium concrete and throw resources into mindless prestige investments instead of putting health and social care systems in order. The government wants the pensioner's only partner to be the brainwashing room filled with hundreds of billions of dollars, lied to as a public service. But that's not the society Jobbik has in mind. All normal ageing policies should be based on four pillars: health, livelihoods, security and dignity. These are what Hungarian pensioners want. But we cannot talk about this until half of those 60 years of age have a permanent disability or chronic illness, if they are worth it at all, and they are not taken from work to the cemetery. We couldn't talk about this, when the rate of pension poverty has doubled in the last 8 years and now in 9 years, and an average pensioner has an increase of 121 forints per day. When older people in many places cannot feel safe from walking, aged jackals walking on two legs, think only of the terrible case in Hajdúhadháza, where the brutality of the Stone Age once again sat down - when they cut off 4 000 diabetic feet every year, three times as much in proportion to the European average, because it is cheaper; when over the past years, the number of seats in residential social institutions has only increased by a few pieces, while there is a waiting list of 30,000, there is no health, no livelihood, no safety, no dignity. The main demand and request of pensioners' organisations would be to listen to them, to negotiate with them, and their question is why they do not introduce the Hungarian indexation, the mixed indexation. Answer that, Mr. Secretary. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-05-27-96	Thank you. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-05-27-97	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You were talking about humiliating pensioners. If these two words meet each other, then, I think, many of you will remember your former party president, Gábor Vona, and their other party leaders. Gábor Vona, who recently became a rapper, was the leader of Jobbik and your Prime Minister's candidate, who, in principle, if you had won the election last year, would have directed the whole country, found out from pensioners, part of the pensioners, that their eyes were filled with hatred, their mouths were flooded with sewage, and the XX. Every trauma of the century. This was the respect that came from Gábor Vona for the world war, the revolutionary oppression, the survival and experience of people. This was it, or when he was making fun of how their different wheeled cars were pulled in and carried in what they bought at the store. This was the respect that the right-handers gave pensioners, the elderly, and the fact that they did not vote here in Parliament for the introduction of 40, which would have put 240 thousand elderly women in a difficult financial situation. And I also quote the expression of respect when, in my memory, Tamás Sneider said at an internal forum that he should look like a cute, kind grandson, because the votes of pensioners are needed. In English: pensioners were thought to be a kind of voting base, not spoken of in the voice of real respect. And Gábor Vona didn't make a secret out of it because he posted it on his Facebook. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: You take care of this with a bag of potatoes!]] Then, in this current campaign, rather surprising statements were made by better-looking leaders about the elderly, the pensioners who volunteered in their online campaign. So, for the pensioners most supportive of them and working for them on their own time, the good guys said that they were the butt-back commandos, and they called them stupid pensioners. That is, therefore, the respect you are talking about, honourable Member, and you say that pensioners are humiliated by this or that. Honourable Member, Jobbik has repeatedly humiliated pensioners in public. As I said, here in Parliament, when they had the opportunity to uphold laws for the benefit of pensioners and the elderly, they did not; I mentioned 40, too. On the other hand, every year in our bill, we provided cover for a total increase of 33 percent in pensions, which also meant a 10 percent increase in the value of purchases for pensioners. In Elisabeth's voucher, pension premium, pension supplement, the elderly received HUF 170 billion in surplus, pensioners in Hungary last year. And as I said to you, the 40, the women's programme has already been attended by 252,000 women. [[16.10]] With the reduction of the rent, we tried to save people with a smaller pension. And what you are demanding, honourable Member, is this mixed indexation, which you did not invent, but you would have taken over from the Hungarian Socialist Party now, if we had introduced this at the beginning of our government, you would have drawn an average of HUF 5 000 per month from every Hungarian pensioner's pocket for years, i.e. 60,000 forints per year, year after year, repeatedly and cumulatively shortening pensioners. We did not introduce it because it would have been detrimental to pensioners, but we have managed to ensure the safety of old age with both pension increases and other means of pension promotion and the like in recent years. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-05-27-98	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-05-27-99	Secretary of State, I had the naive hope of giving me a new experience, namely that you would answer honestly, instead of speaking ill, here you brought up Gábor Vona. Why didn't you tell the media monster leader about your statement, blog post, I'm talking about the head of KESMA, which holds 500 press products, who said about Hungarian pensioners who are pissed off by pensioners, pensioners when we talk about them, and Hungary is the world of false denture fathers and mothers? Why didn't you talk about that? Why didn't you quote that, Your Honour? I'll tell you why. Because, among other things, it is the job of this man and this media holding to keep Hungarian pensioners in fear and poverty. Just as Minister Varga says it's the government's job to keep the wages down, and that's your job. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] To keep pensions down so that they can control Hungarian pensioners and buy them cheaply...
u2019-05-27-100	I'm waiting for an answer, Congressman.
u2019-05-27-101	I don't accept that answer. That was a ridiculous answer, Mr. Secretary. No, thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-05-27-102	Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 109 votes in favour, 23 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Lőrinc Nacsa and László Szászfalvi, representatives of KDNP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office:, How can the Hungarian Village Programme help to maintain the population in the villages? It's an address. Mr László Szászfalvi has the floor.
u2019-05-27-103	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The Fidesz-KDNP government has been committed from the beginning to improving the quality of life of people living in small settlements, which is why it has developed an application programme aimed at mitigating the disadvantages of small settlements below 5 thousand people. This will bring about improvements that make these settlements attractive, attractive to the people who live there and those who want to settle down. Therefore, at the beginning of 2019 the Hungarian village program for the renewal of rural Hungary was launched. The program's applications help to improve housing conditions, the development of service apartments, as well as nursery, kindergarten development and health care support. They provide for the development of community and cultural institutions that enhance national and local identity and promote community organisation. I would particularly like to highlight the launch of the village CSOK. This also helps people living in small settlements in disadvantaged or difficult conditions. They're the ones who want to start a family in the village and make a home. They are also entitled to support such as those living in larger settlements or cities. Dear Secretary of State, The Christian Democratic People's Party fully agrees with the government's goals. With the development of the social and health care system, we need to increase the quality of life of people living in small settlements and their population retention. We must support young people's stay in place and reduce their migration. This year you can apply for 18 target areas in the framework of the Hungarian village programme, with a total of HUF 75 billion available to support the sub-programmes. The special interest of the municipalities and the parishes has been attached to the programme since the preparation. Civil organizations, mayors, notaries, local government professionals and church leaders were able to express their views on the program of the Hungarian village. The interested parties can submit their applications to the Hungarian Treasury, which is why I ask the honourable Secretary of State: what does the government expect of the Hungarian village programme? How can applications help small rural settlements to maintain their population? What are the first calls for proposals focused on? I look forward to the honour of the Secretary of State's reply. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-05-27-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Balázs Orbán responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-05-27-105	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The government fully shares the view that the development of the countryside is outstanding in terms of the development of our country, the security of everyday life, social development, preservation of value and, above all, the guarantee of quality life. This idea may seem evident, but unfortunately not all political forces and political groups share it. It is worth recalling, for example, the thoughts of Péter Mihályi, a left-wing liberal economist close to SZDSZ, who thought that the village had to end in 2006. As he said then: medieval tradition of the village, why should it be maintained? There is no village in all Western Europe, the majority of Hungarian settlements are inoperable. The suggestion that it was proven that the village where the school was closed would cease to be able to comment that everyone should move. These are serious statements about the identity of the nation. All these ideas describe very well that some people do not care about this and do not consider it a priority to improve the quality of life of Hungarian villages. On the other hand, Hungarian families are important to us, live anywhere in the country. Our aim is to provide attractive living conditions, high-quality services, a predictable future and security to the people living in the smallest settlements. The Hungarian village programme focuses on settlements of less than 5,000 inhabitants, which are designed to ensure that living in a village is not a disadvantage in terms of quality of life compared to the city, but a different lifestyle. Our aim is to stop migration, to increase the population retention power of the villages. In 2019 we will spend HUF 150 billion on the programme. We believe that there is a demand for rural lifestyle for young people, it is no coincidence that more than 30 percent of the general CSOK calls involved the purchase of rural property. Congressman, you mentioned the village CSOK institution, which we think is of great importance. This appears as a novelty through the general COS programme. If a person makes the purchase or modernisation of a second-hand apartment at the same time, he will receive the same amount of aid as in the case of construction of a new apartment or house under the general rules of the CSOK. In particular, if you want to buy and upgrade used property in a village, you are entitled to HUF 600 thousand for one child, HUF 2.6 million for two children, HUF 10 million for three or more children. Of these, HUF 5 million can be used to buy, and HUF 5 million can be used to upgrade. We believe that it is the complexity of the Hungarian village program that can make a real difference for those living in the smallest settlements. So far there have been five calls for proposals from the 18 calls for proposals, until Friday 2090 municipalities, 985 churches registered, and 1216 applications from municipalities and 949 applications from church communities. For us, this means that the popularity of the Hungarian village is unbroken, constantly upward, and this shows that strengthening the population conservation power of the Hungarian countryside is a mission for all of us, a programme of strategic importance for the future of the country. So thank you for your support, and on behalf of this government we expect your support in the near future. Thank you very much for your time. Thank you for your time. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-05-27-106	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-05-27-107	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Of course, I accept the answer, Mr. Secretary of State. I would also like to underline, as Mr Secretary of State has said, that this programme is a complex rural development programme, which has not been experienced in Hungary in 30 years, partly by the Hungarian village programme itself, partly by the related village CSOK programme, partly by the renovation programme of the lower roads. [[16.20]] And if we add to this the launch of our upcoming school bus system, we can say that there has not been a rural development complex programme like this in Hungary in the last three decades. Not to mention that this programme is planned not only for this year, but it is hoped that it will continue in the coming years. On this basis, we continue to support the government's work, and we want this programme to fulfil its mission in the development of Hungary and the Hungarian countryside. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-05-27-108	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Sándor Szabó, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. 100 Hungarian people die every day, but this doesn't interest the government? It's an address. Mr Sándor Szabó has the floor.
u2019-05-27-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I'm guessing you'll answer. If we look at Hungary's problem map and ask 100,000 people, I am sure that most Hungarian people say that the health situation is the biggest problem in Hungary today. This is due to the fact that, when we look at the resources that previous governments can spend on health care, we find that you have been drawing thousands of billions of forints from health care almost every year since 2006. Unfortunately, the direct consequence of this has been that Hungary is far from the average of the European Union, but also from the average of the Visegrád countries, in terms of the health situation. As a result, for example, we are the first of the Visegrád countries in the group of diseases caused by the circulatory system. In this circle, we produce not only the most diseases in Hungary, but twice as many of the Visegrád countries suffer from this type of disease. My most recent question concerned, for example, vascular surgeons. We saw the resignations in Győr, Veszprém, but due to a shortage of specialists, the vascular surgery of Péterfy Hospital also had to be closed temporarily. Another problem of a similar nature, if we look at the issue again, is the case with regard to cancer. And although György Matolcsy has many sayings that may not be right, I think he could have been right in the proposal and study of the Hungarian National Bank concerning the introduction of innovative medicines. But instead of taking the advice of the Hungarian National Bank, your minister didn't do this, but started a newspaper out of hundreds of millions of forints, even though this source could have been used calmly to prevent and cure cancers. It is not very fortunate that Hungarians go to other countries of Europe to improve their chances of recovery. And if we look at the mortality figures, we also find that we are also the worst in Hungary in terms of preventable deaths, far behind the Visegrád countries and the European Union average. For this reason, I ask the Secretary of State why, instead of publishing newspapers, the Minister responsible for this area does not spend resources on health. When do you realize that instead of political communication, it would be good to take real steps to resolve Hungarian health care? Thank you, and I look forward to your reply.
u2019-05-27-110	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-05-27-111	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, However, I would like to put some things in order about what you said at the beginning of your speech about how you dealt with health. You were interested in health care until it was possible to win money or privatise something from it; first to degrade it to a poor standard and then to privatize it, and then to gain money from it. This is why less and less forints have been spent on Hungarian health care. When you were talking about reverse trends, something is not round or round with you, because according to the OECD, Hungary was the only country of all OECD Member States between 2003 and 2010, where the number of health expenditure per capita has decreased, while since 2010 the same statement shows that the number of health expenditures has increased to the highest in Hungary. If you look at the budget for this year and the 2010 budget, you will see that there is 647 billion forints more for health in this year's budget than there was in 2010. So both the budget figures and the OECD figures show that you were constantly withdrawn and even the only OECD countries who took money from health care, while Fidesz-KDNP was the one that increased these items. The reason you took it was because 16,000 active beds were taken out in hospitals, 6,000 medical workers who stayed there were fired, and a month's wages were taken. Let us not forget that your government was the only one that took a month's wages from doctors and nurses and, moreover, closed hospitals across the country, honourable Member. On the other hand, we have already completed a 500 billion HUF hospital development program, in which we have renovated in whole or in part 77 hospitals, 54 clinics and 104 rescue stations, and we have built 23 new clinics and 31 new rescue stations, and in 2019 21 more rescue stations are being built. If you look at the rescue budget, honourable Member, you see that the National Rescue Service budget has increased by 91 percent since 2010. Among other things, they were able to buy 778 new ambulances with an average age of 2.66 years, which is an extremely good number, an extremely small age for ambulances. As I said, we have been through a HUF 500 billion development, and we are now in another 700 billionaire, the Healthy Budapest, in which we develop four center hospitals and 24 co-hospitals. Since 2010, we have tried to devote all the extra resources, whether chips tax or other, to health wage increases, so doctors' wages have been doubled by two and a half times, while nurses' wages have been doubled. If you have looked, honourable Member, at the revenue of a general practice in 2010, you have seen that it was about 867 thousand forints. If you look at how much an average GP practice is now, you see that it is not 867 thousand, but 1 million 630,000 forints a month, on average, a practice that has to come out of the practice's monthly farming. But it is not over here, because this year and the next four years, overall, the workers' wages will increase by 72 percent. In addition, we have adopted a lot of preventive measures on the protection of non-smokers, the introduction of HPV vaccination, the introduction of daily physical education, the introduction of a chip tax, the renewal of feeding, the expulsion of unhealthy products from school buffets, but we can also mention the most recent programme to check colon cancers, or the screenings taken into place, the health development offices and the three generations for health. As a result, women's average age has increased by 0.9 years since 2010 and men's by 1.9 years. And I would also deny what you said about heart disease and cerebral artery disease. In the case of heart disease, the incidence of this fatal disease was reduced by 14 percent in women, 20 percent in men and 12 percent in women and 12 percent in men. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-05-27-112	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-05-27-113	That's what I'm talking about, Mr. Secretary. These sound very nice from your mouth, but that's not what reality shows. Go to specialist clinics, go to GPs, there are no GPs anymore, and you know it. Why don't you go to the doctor's office, take a look at the waiting lists, and then analyze the fact that people really think what you're saying about the health situation. Last year alone, more than HUF 1,800 billion were withdrawn from health care. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's not true!]] And the improvements that you liked to talk about are very good, but they have all been made from European Union resources. So, Mr State Secretary, the current situation continues to be that, unfortunately, people continue to regard the situation in Hungarian health as the biggest problem that you should have solved, since you have been ruling for nine years, so I cannot accept your answer. Thank you.
u2019-05-27-114	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 113 votes in favour, 28 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Imre László, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. If they cannot organise health care in any district, what should the country expect? It's an address. Congressman Imre László has the floor. [[16.30]]
u2019-05-27-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, In my smaller place of residence, the example of Újbuda, like the sea in a drop, is reflected in the pitiful situation of the domestic health care system, as is the lack of concept of the government and the municipality and the lack of intention to solve it. Outpatient care in the district is a disaster area. Due to the lack of number of people denied to the point of their fingernails, the bookings are kilometers long, and the waiting time is far above the national average, which is not short. The most serious situation is pediatrics. The solution to this, the establishment of a paediatric clinic unit, was first promised in 2010 in the mayor's election campaign to embarrass Gyula Molnár. The election was won, the promise was forgotten as usual. The promise was then reappeared in the 2014 election campaign, but with the same result. When are they gonna start? Even if the third time they promise in the autumn campaign, the sick children of the district won't heal faster than they promised. Health is closely linked, and the government's slingshot is a healthy lifestyle and sport. For years, the 20,000 inhabitants of Richre and Guardian have been fooled by the construction of a swimming pool. Twice the foundation stone has been laid, but when would you like to get past it and actually start building it? However, the veterinary horse is the case of the regional health centre in South Buda, called the Super Hospital. For this purpose, eight sites have already been acquired, four of them from a Fidesz-near contractor for 4.3 billion net. So he's already benefited, but the budget is less, because there hasn't been a single cut, but the planned cost of hospital building has already increased several times, and at this moment we're at 250 billion. What are the actual costs estimated to be? How they want to ensure access to the institution, because it is impossible to get there today by public transport. Where will they get doctors and professionals in a facility this size if they can't provide the necessary personnel for district outpatient care? What are you planning on doing with St. Imre's Hospital, which you recently spent $15 billion on? When do you understand at all that the development of health is not limited to new facilities, but also to restructuring, renovation of existing ones, adequate funding and above all [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Is there a need for a sufficient number of prepared personnel? I look forward to your reply. [[Applause in the lines of DK, MSZP and LMP.]]
u2019-05-27-116	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-05-27-117	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I believe that this was your mayor-designate speech at the moment here in Parliament, obviously you want to use these sentences as candidates for mayor in the campaign, which you have just said, but I have literally written down a sentence, honourable Member, from what you said at the beginning. NewBudan, he said the most serious situation is pediatrics. Who was the government that closed the Shvabhegy Children's Hospital? I'll help you, the same government that shut down Szabolcs Street Hospital and the same government that shut down Schöpf-Mere Hospital, which helped mothers deliver their children in many difficult births. [[An intervention from the ranks of Fidesz: Shame!]] Your government! You say now that the most serious situation is pediatrics. And who closed the children's hospital? You, honourable Member, and then stand up in Parliament that the new children's centre is not being built quickly enough, while you have closed a children's hospital in Svábhegy in Buda, which was also intended to serve the health of children, honourable Member. You say there's a lot of people waiting in the office. This may and may not be true during the peak period, but what did you propose to do about it? The visit fee. If you have to pay, less people will wait. That would be your proposal for the XI. District and other citizens? [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Ten years have passed since then!]] You think he helped the patients heal by eliminating 16,000 active beds? You say that doctors, nurses, and more doctors, more nurses are needed. Who dismissed 6,000 health workers, doctors and nurses in Hungary? Who? Who sent them away? You, your government, Ferenc Gyurcsány and the political family in which you are now political. [[Gergely Harvesto: No, it's not true!]] And who took a month's wages from them? You. You are saying here that there is a need for more doctors, a better structure, a new childcare centre, but in each case you were not only the cause of the problem, but you are the cause of the problem, and then you think that ten years later no one will remember that, and stand up here in Parliament and demand the opposite of what you have done during your administration, honourable Member. Not to mention, perhaps you should have talked about the internal restructuring when your management of St. Imre Hospital's debt piled up nicely, perhaps you should have dealt with some internal structural issue. On the other hand, we have tried to provide as many health resources as possible. You know that we have increased health resources by about 1.5 percent of GDP, with HUF 700 billion in the expected cost of the programme, in 4 centre hospitals and 24 co-hospitals, and from this to the newbuda children's health centre, and in 2017 we gave HUF 63 million 993,000 to the local government and HUF 111 million 327 thousand in 2018. From the first, planning and preparation of public procurement took place, from the second stage, i.e. from last year's money the first stage of procurement of assets, and this year the preparation of the grant document is under way from HUF 500 million and HUF half a billion. By the way, in 36 professions in the next specialist clinic, the office operates in 2380 specialist and 219 non-specialized hours per week. This is a well-equipped, well-equipped office in Budapest, but we will provide a HUF 1 billion HUF 895 million support from the. Healthy Budapest, which is obviously also an opportunity for a pediatric centre. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] As far as the center hospital in South Buda is concerned, the public transport section is already being planned, and indeed, as you said, here it will be an amount of more than HUF 100 billion that we will use not only for the treatment of patients in the south of Buda, but also for the healing of the agglomeration patients. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-05-27-118	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-05-27-119	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, our conversation is on a pathetic plane. I was talking about a clinic, not an infirmary, and not a Budapest care, but an XI. district. I understand, by the way, that you can't give me a reasonable answer if it's just XI. We're confined to the district. By the way, let me tell you that as former director of St. Imre's Hospital, it wasn't the billionaire debt you're talking about, but let's just say this is another thing, I'd be very happy to face the court who said that. The point is, it's possible at St. Imre's Hospital base to build a hospital, a super hospital, with a tenth of the amount. Of course, there's less to steal than 250 billion. The problem is, you're always delirious, and so are you. I asked questions, I didn't get an answer. Maybe he'll get there someday. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That they would put answers on your desk that would answer the questions you've asked. Thank you. I don't accept the answer.
u2019-05-27-120	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 111 votes in favour, 24 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, a representative of the LMP, submitted an interview to the Minister of Finance:. Will there be enough resources for environmental protection to solve at least the most urgent problems directly endangering our lives and environmental safety? It's an address. By responding to the interpellation, the Prime Minister appointed Mr István Nagy, Minister of Agriculture, who is responsible and competent according to the subject. At the request of Minister Sándor Farkas, Minister of State for Interpellation, he responds. You have the floor, Congresswoman. [[16.40]]
u2019-05-27-121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Parliament is about to start negotiating next year's budget. We don't know yet. We just know what you're planning, Minister of Finance. Nine years ago, the cry for help of professional arguments, facts, people and sectors on the brink of inability to find help in the government is falling to deaf ears. Even though the economy is raging, the budget is taking on our most important issues, the well-being of the people, the eradication of poverty, health, education, culture and not least the environment. However, they are all closely linked to the government's new password, competitiveness, because if we invest in these areas, then healthy, educated people with a vision of the future, in a environment rich in natural values and resources, could lay the foundations for a sustainable, high added value society and economy of the future. Let us look at the environmental issue, the financing of which is also shamefully low. The government is sabotaging people's health, reducing pollution and burden that can be measured in human years, including asbestos pollution that causes the early death of thousands of adults and children, which is in homes, schools, workplaces, and air and noise pollution. But the same can be said of the failure to eliminate previous industrial pollution, just think of the pollution remaining in the vicinity of the water supply of tens of thousands of people in Szentendre or in the Óbuda Gas Factory; there are thousands of such places in the country. There's no water supply reconstruction anywhere, and our healthy water supply depends on it. The government is acting like it doesn't have to do anything because of climate change. The state doesn't cover the national parks' safekeeping work, but instead encourages them to generate profits, and I can list the government's criminal record for a long time. At the same time, it is clear that EU support will be reduced in the future, and a new plan for the use of EU aid should be drawn up by the end of May on the basis of the Government decision. I would like to ask you how, how much and for what purposes you plan to increase next year's and longer term funding for the environment. Or do they continue to eviscerate and violate the Fundamental Law, push the country into an environmental crisis, and continue to watch more than ten thousand people die prematurely every year for environmental reasons? I'd like to hear specific numbers. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2019-05-27-122	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Sándor Farkas, Deputy Minister, responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2019-05-27-123	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Your question is premature and misleading. It is premature because budget planning for 2020 is still under way, as is the preparation of sectoral plans for the use of EU funds. It is misleading, as the Hungarian government has already done a lot and spent a lot of money to solve environmental objectives, not only within the environmental sector in a narrow sense, but also in several other fields because of the integrated environmental approach and the division of government tasks. In the case of several complex environmental problems, effective action must be taken in other sectors in order to significantly improve the state of the environment as a result of solving the specific sectoral problem; this is particularly true, for example, in the area of air quality protection. Significant steps have also been taken to reduce the effects of air pollution in recent years and the situation has improved in many areas. Years ago, we launched an inter-sectoral programme to reduce small particle emissions. Since the launch of the programme in 2011, a number of measures have been implemented in the transport, industrial, agricultural and residential sectors, worth nearly HUF 200 billion. A new national air load reduction programme is also being prepared to limit emissions of all relevant air pollutants. The objectives of the programme will be achieved by using a significant amount of EU funding, with measures taken to achieve them reducing the environmental and health risks of the population by more than 50 percent. Within the framework of the national environmental remediation programme, a total of HUF 110.9 billion from domestic sources in the period 2010-2017 were covered by remedial measures in more than 300 areas. In addition, the government ensured, for example, the supply of water to the settlement after drinking water pollution in Abasár and the investigation of the cause, formation and spread of pollution at a cost of HUF 100 million. In 2017, real remedial measures started: we managed to clean up the hazardous waste storage facility in Balmazújváros-Lazlózlóház from 2566 tonnes of hazardous waste, with a cost of HUF 400 million. In addition, EU funds amounted to nearly HUF 100 billion for the period 2010-2020 and are available for remedial tasks, as well as for abandoned, contaminated and under-used brownfield areas. I would like to inform Congresswoman that state conservation and genetic conservation institutions can continue to carry out their value-keeping activities with a stable budget. Within the framework of the operational programmes launched in 2015, we will improve the state of natural and near-natural habitats and infrastructure for conservation management and demonstration to the general public in other areas, with the support of nearly HUF 40 billion. As a new element, it will also be possible to develop the infrastructure necessary for the conservation guard and for the monitoring of nature. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] In order to increase public participation in genetic conservation activities, we will provide additional billions of HUF 12.3 billion in 2017 over the next four years. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-05-27-124	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I'll ask Congresswoman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-05-27-125	Unfortunately, I cannot accept the answer, Deputy Minister. You said the question was premature. I am sure that this is not premature, because next year's budget will have to be submitted by the government within a few weeks, and if the government is to submit it, obviously the budget planning will not start now, but has been going on for some time, so you should know exactly what items will be planned for. So the question is not premature. The government may have turned some into different areas, but not as much as it should. Remember, for example, at the end of the summer period, how many settlements in the country have air pollution exceeded the limit, people and children were drowning. It is no coincidence that today about ten thousand people in Hungary die prematurely as a result of air pollution. I wouldn't be too proud of national parks, either, because they're being forced into EU funds. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] and do not receive adequate support for professional work. Unfortunately, the answer is not acceptable. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Forced to Source!]]
u2019-05-27-126	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 108 votes in favour, 24 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister's Chief of Staff. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that Secretary of State Bence Tordai... [[Defiance.]] , Congressman Bence Tordai is not in the Chamber, so the House Rules of Decision 122. Paragraph 5 of this Article provides that the interpellation shall be considered withdrawn. Dear Parliament, Mónika Dunai, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. What risks would there be if Hungary's free decision on EU development was revoked? It's an address. Congresswoman Mónika Dunai has the floor. [[16.50]]
u2019-05-27-127	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Another statement by Klára Dobrev, politician of the Democratic Coalition, highlighted how dangerous Hungary's vision of the future of the European Union is and how much it ignores the decision of Hungarian voters. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: And why did you campaign against him?]] The radically pro-immigration Democratic Coalition [[Gergely Harvesto: Oh, here we go again!]] an iconic figure in an interview last week said that the funds due to our country should be transferred to Hungary through independent EU bodies. [[Gergely Harvestó: Why don't you ask him? I'll hook you up. The president's ringing the bell.]] I would like to point out that it's a passerby, not a charity. It also expressed its acceptance that Hungary should be reinstated as if it were not a full member of the EU. This sentence is unacceptable, outrageous, and ignores all the efforts that our country has made to make it a full member of the EU. The Hungarians fought hard to be equal members of the European Union. [[Gergely Harvesto: But not to steal the money! Intruder from Fidesz: He speaks!]] Despite this, Ferenc Gyurcsány's wife [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Klara Dobrev!]] you could be friends with the idea that the European Union should put Hungary under guardianship. But what else could we expect from a person who dreams of the concept of European united states, a community in which Hungarian sovereignty would be significantly limited, giving practically full power to Brussels bureaucrats. [[Gergely Harvesto: The thing is, you're lying!]] Ladies and gentlemen, [[Gergely Arató: It's not nice to say such a thing to a lady... Sándor Farkas: It's indecent!]] Dear Secretary of State, The Hungarian left is simply unable to accept the decision of the Hungarian electorate, who do not ask for the extreme anti-immigration opposition. The desperation of the pro-immigration opposition has been marked by the fact that for years they have been rushing to Brussels bureaucrats for advice, support and encouraging words, rather than representing the interests of Hungarian voters abroad. For the Hungarian left, Hungarian sovereignty does not mean anything, nor does Hungarian culture and identity mean anything. It is no exaggeration to say that for the Hungarian left, Budapest is no longer the capital of Hungary, but Brussels. [[Gergely Arató: We do not close the Széchényi Library, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences!]] Dear Secretary of State, I am asking what danger there are if we leave the allocation of EU funds to our country to independent EU institutions. [[Gergely Harvesto: How weak it is!]] I look forward to your reply. [[Gergely Harvestó: He was very brave! A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-05-27-128	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés responds to the interpellation. Secretary of State, you have the floor. [[Gergely Arató: Is this Klara Dobrev's spokesman?]] Congressman, please. [[Gergely Harvesto: Looks like it to me!]]
u2019-05-27-129	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Indeed, it is difficult for a good Hungarian to do with the recent words of Ferenc Gyurcsány's wife. [[Gergely Harvest: Klára Dobrev!]] Wife of Ferenc Gyurcsány [[Gergely Arató and László Varju at the same time: Klára Dobrev! The president's ringing the bell.]] He said that his aim was to keep our country from having a say in the size and award of EU funds for Hungary, so that the EU institutions would decide. So, to make it clear what this is about: the Democratic Coalition wants to achieve that when it comes to deciding how much money each Member State has and where it can be used, then the representatives of the Hungarian people should not be able to sit at the negotiating table, fight for the Hungarians' development money, but leave the whole thing to Brussels bureaucrats living a thousand kilometres away from Budapest. [[In the notary seat, Sándor Szabó replaces Dezső the Believer.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We know what that would mean. Last May, the European Commission put a pro-immigration budget on the table that would take money from the Member States and give more to migration. Ferenc Gyurcsány and his party therefore support this. They represent not the Hungarian people, but Brussels. [[Gergely Harvestó: Why didn't you come to the debate, if that's what you think? Face to face! Let's not talk about this between us. Wow.]] This is not a novelty, because they have not been interested in the opinion of the Hungarians. [[László Szászfalvi: The truth hurts!]] In vain, the Hungarian people have repeatedly made it clear that they do not want to turn our country into an immigrant country, yet Ferenc Gyurcsány and the entire opposition have joined behind the pro-immigration bureaucracy in Brussels and want to let migrants in. However, the government is also in the interests of the Hungarian people in Brussels, our aim is to make Hungary one of the five EU Member States where it is best to live, live and work by 2030. [[Gergely Harvester: Then resign!]] And to do so, it is vital that we can stand up for our country ourselves, decide on the distribution of our own resources. History has shown many times that we cannot expect anyone else to enforce our interests. But what would happen if Klara Dobrev [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties. Applause from the DK benches.]] and the opposition wishes that the European Commission should be responsible for the development, which we can already see in this development cycle. The share of applicants in our region from EU sources that can be applied directly to Brussels is appallingly low and the situation in public procurement is not better. For example, if we look at the R &amp; D programme managed by the Commission, which supports R &amp; D, it turns out that only 5 percent of the funding framework was won by the new Member States that joined the EU, while their population is a quarter of the EU. Experience shows, therefore, that if Ferenc Gyurcsány's party and its aim were to prevail, we would not expect much good, not much of a resource. [[Gergely Harvester: The Fidesz!]] [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Dr. Winner Vinnai in the notary seat.]] We must declare that we do not wish to give up any rights, no matter where political pressure is on our country. The electorate authorised the current government last year, and in the elections that took place, it was also clearly stated that they supported this government, which ensures the interests of the Hungarian people, the protection of the Hungarian people and the preservation of their independence. Therefore, I ask you to accept my answer. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. Gergely Harvesto: It was a pretty weak answer. István Szilárd Németh: It was a very good answer.]]
u2019-05-27-130	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congresswoman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-05-27-131	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I accept the answer. [[There's a grumble in DK's ranks.]] I ask the Secretary of State and the Government to do everything possible to ensure that the European Union does not listen to Mrs Gyurcsány [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Klara Dobrev!]] Don't let me... [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Congresswoman, please address him by his name if your fellow Members of the man sitting here do not do so. Noise. Intruder from Fidesz: No need to shout! The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2019-05-27-132	Congresswoman! [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Congresswoman, please. Dr. Klara Dobrev. Please! At least that's it. The president's ringing the bell. Dr. Bence Retvári: Are you ashamed of your husband's name? A statement from the Fidesz: Are you ashamed of your husband?]] Congresswoman, I have some bad news: I must inform you that you are not a dialogue and you are not answering. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I thought we would have such a dialogue here about who is called in this House.]] Then be nice, be quiet. And give me the opportunity to hear your reply from Congresswoman. When you interpel, you do the talking. Thank you. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: But no, because I'm talking now! Dobrev Klara! Applause from the pro-government benches.]] Congresswoman, please. I'll count the time.
u2019-05-27-133	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, with respect, I ask the Hungarian Government to do everything possible to ensure that the wife of Ferenc Gyurcsány, Klára Dobrev, [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai and Gergely Arató at the same time: Klara Dobrev!]] to the institutions of the European Union [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Klara Dobrev. Is it that hard to say?]] Don't do it, don't do it [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Dr. Klára Dobrev. It's not that complicated.]] to make Hungary a second-rate EU country, do not allow Hungary to become a guardian. And do your best to make sure that we Hungarians can decide about the EU funds that belong to Hungary. Thank you very much for your answer. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-05-27-134	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Andrea Varga-Damm, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:, Western prices, Eastern wages: the situation in the Carpathian Basin remains the same. It's an address. By responding to the interpellation, the Prime Minister appointed Minister for Finance Mihály Varga, who is competent and competent according to the subject. At the request of the Minister, Mr András Tállai, Minister of State, responds to the interpellation. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-05-27-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Since the change of regime, what do politicians tell people? It means that capitalism, democracy and a market economy are aimed at people's well-being. For 30 years, they have been promising to bring citizens to the standard of living in Western Europe. About 500,000 people were succeeded, mostly by the oligarch and footage families near the government. But there are still nine million people here who have not been able to benefit from this grace, even if they are working day and night. [[17.00]] The government is constantly buzzing that average wages are increasing, the standard of living is increasing, the only problem is that, with a delay of three quarters of a year, prices are also rising by losing wages in real terms. In Hungary, only 23 Hungarians can buy from the consumer basket, 29 in the Czech Republic, 34 in Austria, 44 in Britain and 58 in Germany. This means that Austrians have 50 percent more wages than Hungarians, more than twice the British, and two and a half times the Germans. Of course, we have been hearing for 30 years that there is no interference in market processes, demand and supply determine prices and wages. We know very well that by public intervention, market and demand conditions throughout the world are affected. Let us just see that as a result of the protective customs duties to be introduced in the USA, the construction of the second phase of the Mercedes plant in Kecskemét, accompanied by a large voice by the government, has already stopped. You don't want to talk about that. While in 1990 the Hungarian man was able to buy $1,53 liters of fuel, we now came to the point that only 0.7 liters of fuel were available for one dollar. If we compare the same figures with the average wages and the minimum living values, then the result is that while the average wage was $164 in 90 and the minimum salary was $115, and in 2004 the average wage was $334 and the minimum salary was $254, i.e. people were able to reserve between the two periods. Today, however, the government no longer allows the minimum living value to be shown, simply so that no responsible politician can meet the money that Hungarians could make a living with. Since 2010, food prices in Hungary have increased by 34%, but net income has not followed this. The average wage calculation does not include public workers' wages, which would in any case make the current average wage calculation worse, and this leads to the fact that today citizens, no matter how well the government is telling them how well they live, 3 million people are still living in extreme poverty. The price of fuel was 320 forints in 2010, today 407, compared with the price of oil in 2010, and today 70 forints. What's the connection between these two? I would like to ask Mr. Secretary of State, instead of Prime Minister, what he can say to people 30 years after the change of regime, when Western prices will be accompanied by Western wages. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-05-27-136	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary András Tállai, Deputy Minister, responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2019-05-27-137	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I can help you by looking back from 2010 on what the Government of Hungary, the Fidesz-KDNP government, has done in order to increase the existentiality of people, to increase their income and to improve their lives. Well, first of all, we had to fix the foreign exchange loan, which was a social disaster, people were fooled. With over 1 million contracts, more than 1 million people and families were taken into the disaster that meant that they could not pay their loans because of the exchange rate change. I am just reminding you that this was done by the Socialist Government with whom you have now entered into a political partnership. The Fidesz government has agreed to make this work, and it is true with long years of struggle, but it has corrected it by getting international recognition in this area. The next step of the government was the real, lasting and real reduction of the rent, which also affected hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families and even affects all Hungarian families to this day, as the impact of the reduction of the rent still has a positive impact on families today by reducing their overhead costs and leaving them more for other purposes. When the economy and growth were strengthened, we expanded employment. At first, many people worked in the public sector, later emigrated to the competition sector. I could give you a number for that, 12 percent unemployment, that's it, now 3.6 percent. The Fidesz government has provided more than 800,000 people with work and income and livelihoods. When economic growth became permanent, the Fidesz government gave people tax reductions. First, we changed the key to personal income tax, the progressive tax rate to a key, 15 percent, which is the second least in Europe, and we also increased the family tax relief, thus providing more than 1 million families and families with children with a higher livelihood. The tax reduction also includes the reduction of the VAT key, where the key to basic food and services has been reduced. Of course, by lowering the price, people also have more money left. Then, in November 2016, a wage agreement was concluded between the government, employers and employees. The essence of the wage agreement is that wages must be increased permanently in Hungary. On the one hand, the increase in the minimum wage has been steady, more than 100 percent since 2010 and on the other hand, by reducing contributions, we have given employers the opportunity to increase people's income and wages. The impact of this is now felt in the economy. Today, people's income has been constantly increasing for years, not only in nominal understanding, but also in real income. Finally, allow me a comparison. In 2004 an average payment of 140 thousand HUF was available for 572 litres of fuel at that time, today more than 868 litres of fuel can be purchased from an average wage of 345 thousand forints at the filling station. This is the trend the government intends to continue in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-05-27-138	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congresswoman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-05-27-139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I do not accept your answer because you have not answered my fundamental question about what the government intends to do in relation to prices and wages. But I would suggest talking to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Prime Minister and János Lázár, because in recent years they have clearly expressed that Hungary's competitiveness depends on low wages, which somehow does not converge with Western prices. The shocking thing to me is that you mentioned anything positive about foreign exchange lending today, when we all know that you tried to shake off this burden with the worst possible result. But it is also true that under the government where a Patai Mihály can be appointed Vice-President of the Hungarian National Bank, who has committed all the financial acts of terrorism with his fellow Hungarian society, because of which tens of thousands of people are facing eviction, I believe you are not really on the ground of reality. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I can't accept the answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-05-27-140	Thank you very much, Congresswoman, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 114 votes in favour, 24 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, It's 5:09 p.m., and we've reached the end of the interpellation trial. Dear Parliament, In line with our adopted agenda, the decision on a personal proposal for the election of members and officials of the ad hoc committee to appoint members of the Constitutional Court will be taken. S/6246 submitted by the President You can find out more about this on the website. [[17.10]] I would like to inform you that the MSZP, DK and Dialogue Group has not nominated a member of the ad hoc committee. I would like to ask Mr. Winner Vinnai to present the contents of the personal proposal.
u2019-05-27-141	The OGY resolution on the establishment of an ad hoc committee on the appointment of members of the Constitutional Court is hereinafter referred to as Abth. On the basis of points 4 and 5, the officials and members of the ad hoc committee shall elect the following. President: Csaba Hende, Fidesz; Vice-President: dr. Imre Vejkey, KDNP; dr. Csaba Gyüre, Jobbik; members: dr. István Bajkai, Fidesz; György Balla, Fidesz; Dr. Judit Bertalan Czunyi, Fidesz; dr. János Kerényi, Fidesz; Márta Mátrai, Fidesz; Zsolt Nyitrai, Fidesz; dr. István Vitányi, Fidesz; dr. János Hargitai, KDNP; dr. László Keresztes, LMP. This decision is Abth. It shall enter into force on the day of its entry into force.
u2019-05-27-142	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept S/6246. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the personal proposal by 130 votes in favour, 1 vote against, without abstention. Dear Parliament, Now, at 5:11 p.m., we move on to the immediate questioning. I would ask my fellow Members, who are leaving the Chamber for an urgent public task, to do so quietly and within the shortest possible time. [[Several Members leave the Chamber. It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. I would like to ask my fellow Members, who will remain in the Chamber during the further debate, to take their seats. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Parliament, Péter Jakab, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "The fight continues. It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2019-05-27-143	I'll wait for the Prime Minister.
u2019-05-27-144	Thank you. I would like to inform the Member that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "The fight continues. It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister for an answer in person.
u2019-05-27-145	Thank you, Mr President, I would like an answer from Viktor Orbán.
u2019-05-27-146	I would like to inform the Member that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Ádám Mirkóczki, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "The fight continues. It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer. [[Adam Mirkóczki: I accept.]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-05-27-147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, The press recently saw and even shuddered at the Austrian case, which, in essence, resulted in the early elections, and resulted in the resignation of the Vice Chancellor, in which, as everyone knows, in an action organised and executed with a supposedly secret service device or means, the Vice Chancellor found that, I quote: Heinrich Pecina is an investor who has bought and prepared all Hungarian newspapers for Viktor Orbán in the last 15 years. So far, the quote. As a result, everyone saw what happened, heard it, read it, obviously, if Hungarian diplomacy had done its job, then he was better informed of us. But the point is that Austrian politicians only talk, if you like, about a case that, if not a hundred percent as it was said, happened in Hungary. The fact that this has happened to us raises questions in a subtle way, and I would like to ask you, not in my political capacity, and by you, the government, but as chairman of the National Security Committee, and I will explain why. If, with foreign assistance, the whole media system is being reorganized, I think that in order to legitimise the Hungarian government and the Prime Minister, it is worth clarifying the questions whether he personally or what other people have spoken to this gentleman about, he has received foreign support, not a god, which is the worst possible Austrian model, because then the Hungarian government is in a lot of trouble. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] about your own decision. I look forward to your substantive answer. I'll keep going. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-05-27-148	Thank you. I give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga. Here you go, Deputy Prime Minister.
u2019-05-27-149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, Thank you very much for asking. I can tell you, what we have already touched on before the agenda on this parliamentary day, that the fact that politicians in a closed circle, as I have seen the recordings, possessing a very large amount of alcoholic beverages, what statements do they make about the reality of their statement should be asked. I would like to stress that the purchase of companies or other property in Hungary has occurred in recent years in a framework that is inherent to the market economy, so there is a seller, there is a buyer, they usually agree on a market basis. In this press portfolio, the special question of the Member is that there was also a opposition party that owned the paper and sold this property. So I don't quite understand why you're addressing it to us. You are the chairman of the National Security Committee, if and if you consider it necessary, you have the opportunity to inquire about service records that may give you a briefing on this matter. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-05-27-150	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for his reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in a minute. Here you go.
u2019-05-27-151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Indeed, as chairman of the National Security Committee, I would have the right to study such documents, but I do not have the opportunity. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] The question is that when we are talking about Russian influence, I would like to stress that the investment in Paks is quite unclear even to opposition representatives, to those who are entitled to it, so there are always concerns about what the price of such a construction might have been. But I didn't want to take him in this direction, but if that's what the story really was, as you said, that in essence some gentlemen here are speaking under alcohol influence, then how can it happen that they refer to events in Hungary as a model that has already happened; but more importantly, I have tried what you just suggested, I have called together legally, legally, legally, the National Security Committee, and although government representatives have the right to participate or not to participate, this is one thing. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] However, it is beyond the limits that the secret services do not appear in such a case in violation of the national security law. Well, so much for studying possibilities. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[17.20]]
u2019-05-27-152	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have the right to a return answer, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
u2019-05-27-153	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, I can now quote to you an almost infinite number of statements made by better Members in a closed circle, which have become a major scandal in the Hungarian media. But I think that if all of these scandals, especially what is happening abroad, will be discussed in the Hungarian Parliament, there will be no time for anything more useful. So I would like to ask the Member to take an interest in the content of his statement with the parties concerned. By the way, maybe that's all the time I have, if I remember the story of Jobbik, it was your former ex-president who wanted to build very close Russian relations. So I think that we are here to explain the Russian threat, not to us, but to you. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties. Intercom from Jobbik's benches:...we dealt with the Russians...]]
u2019-05-27-154	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Tamás Harangozó, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: It's an address. Mr. Prime Minister has appointed Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga to respond to an urgent public task. I ask you, Congressman, do you accept the person you are responding to, or personally from Prime Minister... [[Dr. Tamás Belling nods.]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-05-27-155	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, The fact is that there is a huge problem with law enforcement agencies, especially the police, with a lack of capacity to maintain stocks, a high number of disarmaments and a very low number of new police officers, and a very low number of trained police officers. There has been a lot of concrete data on these in recent years. A fraction of the number of students enrolled in vocational secondary schools compared to 2010, and from a system point of view it is practically going to zero. We don't have an exact picture of disarmament, because you and the Ministry of Interior are constantly breaking the law, and the Members of Parliament have asked for a written question, when I asked for simple numbers to tell me how many decommissionings there were each year, refusing to respond, but cannot be swept under the rug, and the news is regularly published in the media about mass disarmaments, not some. It is undoubtedly a fact, Minister, that there has been a 50 per cent wage increase in the last five years compared to the base of five years ago, but let's face it, Minister, it is also a clear fact that the net starting salary of 130 to 160 thousand forints is simply not competitive, but has no holding or professional effect or result. This can be earned in Hungary by a McDonald, a little more western and twice the size of a McDonald. Although many problems can cause and cause many people in Hungary to leave their profession in the field of law enforcement today, low wages and unpaid overtime are basically the first in terms of enforcement personnel. So, I ask Minister, next year's budget will soon be submitted, and it will be covered that in the field of law enforcement, an ordinary, at least 30% or 50% wage increase programme will be re-launched for the executive staff. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2019-05-27-156	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga.
u2019-05-27-157	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for asking. I certainly agree with you that it was the right government decision to stabilise police personnel, and one of the first measures after the change of government in 2010 was to launch a wage-raise programme that not only made home affairs careers attractive, police careers for young people, but also to guarantee stability. In recent years, as you said, a 50 percent increase in wages has been launched, which, after years, has meant an additional increase in wages. This is why Hungary's public security has improved significantly in recent years, and has decreased in all categories, whether in the category of anti-life or anti-property crimes. Of course, the government is working to preserve these results, to continue this improvement, because whether it is the capital city or the countryside, our goal is to make everyone in Hungary feel safe, and to give people a day's agreed and lived opportunity to work safely, to feel safe about their assets and property. We are preparing the 2020 budget accordingly. As you know, I think the government will submit this document on the 4th of June, so it won't be long to sleep. In the meantime, the negotiations with the various wallets concerning the preparation of the budget will be concluded. This is where the Ministry of the Interior comes in. Our aim is obviously to maximise the potential of the economy's performance and not only to make the investment, tax reduction and debt reduction announced, but also to continue with the results of the wage catch-up in recent years. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-05-27-158	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. In return, I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Bellozó, please.
u2019-05-27-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. If your answer was sincere, I can certainly accept that, then the big problem is that you really have no idea how much trouble there is in law enforcement. It was probably misinformed or not considered important enough. Minister, I'll tell you this: there's a very big problem, and there's a vicious circle in the police department, and maybe you should be able to do that as a member of the government, which you can't stop without an immediate wage increase. They're ordering extra overtime, which they're not paying, they're slipping it, which means they're releasing it on vacation, which means the next round has to work even more. There aren't enough cops to apply to the vocational high school while they're being discharged in bulk, so they're ordering another overtime, which they're still not paying, so the next position will have to work even more. It's not a very complicated math lesson either, is it, that sooner or later, it's gonna turn the entire law enforcement organization upside down if they don't step in. And whether or not I'm right, Minister, the national police commissioner, in recognition of the wage problems, demanded endurance for the staff. I ask you, Minister, not to give them perseverance or wish for them, but [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] give me a raise, and let's see this in the budget submitted on the 4th. Thank you. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2019-05-27-160	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Mihály Varga, Deputy Prime Minister, has the right to a rejoinder. There you go. You have the floor.
u2019-05-27-161	Thank you very much. Mr President, Congressman! My advice to you is not to talk in riddles, so if you look at the police's performance over the past few years, you can see that the country's public security has improved steadily. Hungary is much safer today than it was ten years ago or fifteen years ago. For this reason, I can tell you that the internal and police leadership of the last few years has done everything in their power to meet all the conditions you have asked for, and at the same time increase the public's sense of security. And as I referred to it, it appears in the crime statistics that you have at your disposal. So I'm asking you not to be one-sided on certain online surfaces, but to draw the horizon a little wider and collect data from multiple sources. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó's intervention.]] I must point out once again that, as has been the case, we will continue to do everything we can to ensure that wages are caught up in line with the performance of the economy, the increase in earnings. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-05-27-162	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:.. Why is the government four times more valuable to a student attending a church school than a fellow student studying in a public school? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to answer the question because of his urgent public mission. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2019-05-27-163	Of course.
u2019-05-27-164	Congressman, you have the floor.
u2019-05-27-165	Although I am excited that Minister will come to the House someday. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: He was here today!]] But in the meantime, I'll settle with Secretary of State and answer the questions. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: He was here today!]] Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The reason I asked for this question was because when you nationalised the education system, you took away the schools that local communities created and operated until then, their main basis of reference was to ensure equal funding for the institutions and a coherent education system, so that there were no big differences between schools and schools. Unfortunately, however, reality is the opposite of what you said, since a shadow school system has been built. You are proud that the number of children attending church schools is increasing, which would not be a problem if we were talking about a family's choice of conscience. But in most cases, this is not the case, but the reason parents leave public schools and choose church schools is because, on the one hand, the public school system is destroyed by stupid centralization and its quality is constantly decreasing, and, on the other hand, because there is an abundance of additional resources in the ecclesiastical system. [[17 .30]] According to various calculations, for example, it is 3-4 times the normative material of church institutions, but anyone who looks at these institutions can see that there it is much better to use different sources of quality education, and these institutions are also exempt from a number of stupid rules that choke the public school system. So my question to you or to you is why students in the public school system are being punished, why they make their lives difficult, how you justify this injustice. Thank you very much.
u2019-05-27-166	Thank you, Congressman. [[To the right-wing representatives behind Jobbik's benches:]] I would like to ask my fellow Members to take their seats. I think that we should honour all our fellow Members to listen here in the Chamber. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: I apologize.]] Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-05-27-167	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Your speech today is just one of DK's anti-church speeches, honourable Member, and I think you've had an anti-church, anti-church, anti-church, anti-church speech for quite some time, which you've been trying to get through, if necessary, legally and illegally. You said clearly in 2018 that churches have too much to play in education now. DK therefore aims to reduce the role of churches in Hungarian education [[Gergely Harvester: Yes!]] Which you just said yes to. So your goal is to have fewer church schools, fewer students going to church schools. In order to make church schools impossible, you weren't selected in the instruments ten years ago. In June 2008, the Constitutional Court had to intervene, since similar logic, in connection with or along similar financial reasoning, as you have just said here, you put it into law in the Public Education Act, contrary to the Vatican contract, that the normative funding of church schools was brought down well below the level of funding of public schools and municipal schools, precisely because you thought that even though there were fewer religious schools then, that your role in education in the churches seemed to be too great, it was illegally lowered, and only the Constitutional Court could save schools in 2008. Therefore, you have not chosen the instruments, and you have even used lawlessness to reduce the proportion of ecclesiastical education. Honourable Congressman, In all cases, it is the decision of parents that affects the taking over of schools. In most cases, church maintainers expect not half but two-thirds support from a school's parent, teacher and student community when the reception takes place. In 2004, thousands of students protested against budgetary measures that had a negative impact on church schools, Bálint Magyar and the then MSZP-SZDSZ government tried to put church schools in a more disadvantageous position. We follow the principle of equal funding, in Hungarian: we give the same support for a student in a church school as a student in a public school. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-05-27-168	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2019-05-27-169	I look forward to Mr Secretary of State once answering the questions asked, or every time you go into the past and flee into the past to account for the activities of your own government. Well, he didn't disappoint me, he talked about everything, but why they give extra funding to church institutions, why a child going to church school is worth more than a child going to public school, why they violate the principle of equal funding, and why they think that children in public institutions should be forced into church institutions by force or at least by financial pressure. Just as he didn't answer why your fidesz mayors and their councils, who voted for this by a large majority, considered it a good idea. Unless, of course, the local elite's kid gets a good seat in these church institutions, the rest of us are left with the decaying public schools. Thank you very much.
u2019-05-27-170	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-05-27-171	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, DK's intention is clear, if it had the opportunity to do so, would therefore reduce the support of church schools to a quarter. Honourable Congressman, When there was a difference between public funding for students and students in 2008, the Constitutional Court intervened and annulled the unfair situation when you gave a lower standard for children attending church schools. If this were the case now, and what you are saying here is, of course, untrue, that you would now have a lower norm for the child going to public school, then the Constitutional Court would destroy this situation. But there's no such decision, you've been saying that for years, it's just a sentence for you to strengthen an anti-religious rhetoric. The state calculates precisely in the procedure for balance-setting, the adoption of the Finance Act, according to accounting rules, that the same amount should be paid for children attending church schools and public schools. This is the standard form of this. And you are working to quarter the state's reimbursement of children attending church schools by reference to different fictitious calculations. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-05-27-172	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "When does the government intend to take substantial steps to curb climate change and its negative effects? It's an address. Mr. Prime Minister has appointed Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Prime Minister for the answer personally.
u2019-05-27-173	Thank you very much. I'll wait for Prime Minister.
u2019-05-27-174	I would like to inform the Congresswoman that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: - How much does the corrupt public procurement system of Fidesz cost Hungarian taxpayers? It's an address. Mr. Prime Minister has appointed Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2019-05-27-175	Yes, thank you, I accept.
u2019-05-27-176	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-05-27-177	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Deputy Prime Minister, Last November, the European Commission verified the functioning of the Public Procurement Supervisory Department within the Prime Minister's Office for 2015-2017, and the result of this investigation revealed very serious errors, i.e. that the system is only working. In addition, the Commission also verified specific procurement procedures. As a result, he found serious irregularities in 25 out of 29 procurements. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, Last week, there were press reports that a delegation had travelled to Brussels to discuss the expected sanctions with the Commission. I would like to ask you to brief me on this for a minute, because I think that we need to see exactly what happens to the money that runs through the cracks in public procurement today. My question is what the Hungarian government intends to do in order to correct systemic errors in public procurement, what it intends to do to ensure that these money does not end up with billionaire buddies, but our country becomes richer instead of buddies. Thank you very much. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2019-05-27-178	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr President, I would like to inform you that Mr Vice-President has a two-minute first opportunity to respond, and you asked for a reply in just one minute. Let's leave this to Deputy Prime Minister. I give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga. Here you go.
u2019-05-27-179	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I ask you, too, what I ask of Congressman Bellozó first, not to sit up for all the news and rumors. The Hungarian media spectrum is quite wide, so you can find information from a wide variety of sources of news, and what you read about public procurement, behind which, as we have discussed many times in Parliament, there is also protection of Hungarian property and Hungarian interest. Each country tries to support its own entrepreneurs, businesses operating in its own territory, while at the same time the European Union, partly under the pressure of some large lobbying companies and Hungary, tries to force public procurement standards across all countries so that they can enter these markets without obstacles as far as possible. [[17.40]] This fight is not new, it's been going on for years, decades. The question and the surprising thing is that there are always Hungarian Members of Parliament who are superior to this atmosphere and start demanding a type of amendment of the Public Procurement Act that is particularly harmful to domestic manufacturers or domestic small and medium-sized enterprises. I hope that's not what this is about in your case. Of course, the government has done a great deal in recent years to make public procurement procedures more transparent, clear and clear to all. I would remind the Member that a new public procurement law has been adopted by the Hungarian Parliament. This new public procurement law allows a very significant part of public procurement to be made available to everyone on an online basis. Let me give you an example of this: for example, the Hungarian National Asset Manager uses this online e- Auction for all properties or other high value assets. In any case, if you think you prefer to buy them in some way, you can use it to make your share of the sale of state assets. So, Congressman, in such cases, I ask you always to be aware of what is really going on, because then we can carry out a substantive question-and-answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-05-27-180	Thank you very much for the Deputy Prime Minister's reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in a minute. Here you go.
u2019-05-27-181	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Deputy Prime Minister, Then, as I understand it, you wish to deny that such findings have been made by the investigation of the Public Procurement Supervisory Department. But you are right, let us be informed, and I think that citizens would also like to be informed; then, I suppose, there is no reason why, within 24 hours, the entire report, which was produced after this investigation, should be made public. I am not afraid that Hungarian businesses will become rich; I am afraid that the national son-in-law or the national gas mechanic will be exclusively rich here. But I'm telling you, you can totally reassure me if you release the original and unmodified results of the investigation within 24 hours. Thank you very much.
u2019-05-27-182	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Deputy Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go.
u2019-05-27-183	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, In this case, I am not the data provider, so if there is such a report that you are making, then the data provider should be asked to make it public. However, once again, I would like to stress that it is not from the devil with the European Union that we have a debate on certain issues. For example, in the case of infringement proceedings, Hungary has ongoing disputes with the European Commission, the European Union, but there are countries that have more and more such disputes, such as France or Belgium. I therefore think that it is worth carrying out these debates, because that is what Hungarian voters and Hungarian citizens may expect us to do: we do not slavishly represent the Brussels standards in Hungary, but vice versa, we represent the Hungarian interest in Brussels and stand up for the interests that drive our economy forward, which create more jobs and which allow higher wages and earnings. Thank you very much, Mr. President, my time is up. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-05-27-184	Thank you very much for the Deputy Prime Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, Congressman Sándor Burány, representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What is going on here? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[Sándor Burány: Yes.]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-05-27-185	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The rat invasion in Budapest is becoming an increasingly serious problem. One of these unfortunate by-products of yesterday's election was the ability to photograph a passing rat in one of the polling rooms in District I. In my constituency, Kőbány, we recently found a rat in Station Street, but the mayor of Kispest in my constituency also had to turn to Bábolna Bio to at least save it in his own power, which can be saved, because Budapest's capital has terminated the contract with Bábolna Bio, who has previously performed a good performance, because he has been a victim of the fidesz mentality of trusting new companies and new buddies with previous orders. It seems that Budapest's unique worldwide rat-freeness for nearly fifty years is slowly ending. This should also be the responsibility of the government, since rats are not simply unpleasant animals, but rodents spreading serious infections, including mud fever, typhoid fever, rabies, dysentery, causing serious public health problems. So I ask the Secretary of State that if the leadership in Budapest seems to be unable to overcome this problem, then the government is willing to offer some help to the capital in order to eliminate this rat invasion. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2019-05-27-186	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-05-27-187	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Apparently, you have tried to create a campaign theme from rodent control, and sometimes, even by mixing pesticides with rodent control, you have tried to generate news every day about this, but, honourable Member, I think that the Mayor, the City Council, can handle this situation, manage it well, take the necessary steps. When the debates about the establishment and transformation of the local government system were held here in Parliament, you constantly attacked the government by making legislative amendments to the affairs of the local governments, and the state should not take any more say in the legislative proposals itself, in various previous powers of the local government, and sometimes after that they come back, as you do now, to the parliament, and they demand the immediate intervention of the government in relation to the full tasks of the local government. And if the government had intervened on this or other issue on its own, then they would have been outraged at why the government is undermining the local government, and you don't think that's a good trend. The other important task of the government is to create financial stability for the municipalities, and to ensure that all municipalities have cover not only for rodent control, not only for insect control, but also for all other public service functions. We were able to create this stablely when in 2011-2012-2013, on the one hand, we redeemed the debt of more than HUF 1200 billion from the municipalities, when the Hungarian State paid off debts, bonds and similar forms accumulated due to losses from the previous annual budget of the municipalities, and on the other hand, we transformed the system of institution maintenance in such a way that they were not underfinanced by the municipalities due to their institutional maintenance tasks. Thus, there is both the legal opportunity and the financial opportunity for the municipalities, including the metropolitan government, to carry out this task, and on this subject I think you would rather have lost during the election campaign than have won. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Perhaps we should not make such issues a political issue. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-05-27-188	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Burány in return. Here you go.
u2019-05-27-189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As far as I can see, the people of Budapest are losing, as István Tarlós is apparently unfit as responsible for solving this problem, otherwise there would not be such a rat invasion in Budapest. This isn't just a campaign thing. The fact that the rats are pouring out in the middle of the campaign in Budapest is indeed a damn unpleasant event, but unfortunately, it is still a problem to be solved. We are indeed of the opinion that it is not necessarily necessary to put the municipalities under state guardianship, but if you have done so once, then do it already, that you will help the Mayor out, because it is clearly more important for him to finance the new company than to solve this problem. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-05-27-190	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-05-27-191	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Luckily, the Lord Mayor's suitability should not be given an opinion by the former president of the MSZP in Budapest, but by the voters, who will decide. Since the change of regime, every election, whether in Óbuda or in the capital, has been given an opinion, and almost every time the voters have found István Tarlós fit to lead the district and later the entire capital, so let's continue to leave it to the voters. Of course, I know that some liberal politicians like to bypass this, and today we have heard many times that voters are poorly informed, and that is why they support pro-government candidates, looking down on those who vote for candidates supported by Fidesz-KDNP. [[17.50]] So, honourable Member, I think that Budapest has a strong mayor, who always stands up for the interests of Budapest, who runs the city well, runs the city well, and also carries out very large development ideas together with the government. I am sure that this problem will also be solved, because it has solved much bigger problems in the past. Thank you very much.
u2019-05-27-192	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr.Barna Pál Zsigmond, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: what are the means of a municipality to remove the damage caused by the loss of parking operations? It's an address. The Minister has entrusted Mr Balázs Orbán, State Secretary, with his reply, with an urgent public task. I would like to ask Congressman to accept the person who is responding. [[Dr. Sigismund Brown on Paul's signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-05-27-193	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Speaking of capital, everyone knows about the parking scandal that started weeks ago. The data published revealed that the parking system in Zugló marked by the name of Gergely Christmas, uniquely throughout Budapest, operates with huge losses. In 2017, there were 490 million losses on parking, 250 million in 2018, and with this year's expected loss, nearly 1 billion forints will be spent on the taxpayers' money in Zugló. The governing parties have repeatedly called on Gergely Christmas, supported by the MSZP, to stop leaking public funds, but the mayor continues to let the money pump run. Due to Gergely Christmas's incompetence due to its intentional or incompetence, the Zugló body of representatives decided on 13 May on the initiative of Fidesz to terminate the scandalous parking contracts immediately. Contrary to the decision, the notary of the municipality certified by the Gyurcsányek made an indication of the breach of the law, which aims at the unbreakable nature of the scandalous contracts. Christmas, hiding behind its notary, continues not to take action for the people of Zugló, and, in fact, according to press reports, already last week, the contract extension was negotiated behind closed doors. The incompetence of the accomplice and Gergely Christmas cost the Zuglós 1 million forints a day. Therefore, from here we also call on the mayor supported by the MSZP, the candidate for the Mayor of the Democratic Coalition, to cancel the parking fee in Zuglo until there is order, because the operation of the system is paid every day. However, they should terminate the contract and no longer spend the money of the taxpayer in Zugló. Christmas proved that it is unable to represent the interests of 125 thousand people in Budapest. How would he know the whole of Budapest? In view of what has been said, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State what means a municipality has to remove the damage caused by the loss of parking operations. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-05-27-194	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary Balázs Orbán, who will answer the immediate question.
u2019-05-27-195	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, On behalf of the government, I can say that our goal is to make the capital not only an attractive tourist destination, but also a real home for the people of Budapest. That is why we are committed to making Budapest one of the three most livable cities in Europe by 2030. Budapest has always developed spectacularly when it had a civil government for Hungary and the city was run by civil parties. Between 2011-14, the Hungarian government took over HUF 200 billion in debt and the investments made in Budapest since 2010 amounted to more than HUF 2100 billion. In addition, we spent 700 billion forints on the development of Budapest transport. Therefore, what is happening in connection with the parking system in Zugló is unacceptable. At the moment, we are talking about more than HUF 1 billion damage. This raises further questions, since this damage is simply inexplicable or can only be explained by making very serious accusations. The fact is that the parking system in Zugló alone in Budapest is loss-making. What is certain of the chaos caused by the candidate for mayor on the left is next. Gergely Christmas has announced on live TV that the 14th edition of the World War I. district parking contract is the result of a dark deal. According to his own statement, he knew this, but he signed the contract without saying a word because he claimed that he had a separate opinion and then admitted that the operation of the system was loss-making. Later, denying the facts, he claimed that the parking system was profitable. However, the Fidesz proposal initiating the termination of the contract was voted in favour. And if that weren't enough, you would have contracts examined by those who concluded them, so there is no independent investigation. And the only thing on the cake is that Gergely Christmas brings the capital here, while the City Council doesn't have any parking companies. We believe that the metropolitan authorities can decide in the autumn whether to choose the development path that has already started, or whether to use an inconsistent and damaging leader for Budapest, to put it mildly. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-05-27-196	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in a minute.
u2019-05-27-197	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Indeed, Budapest has developed spectacularly in recent years under the leadership of Mayor István Tarlós, one of the most popular tourist destinations on the world level. Unfortunately, in Zugló, an incompetent mayor causes very serious damage not only to the part of the city, but to the whole of Budapest. The inadequacy of Gergely Christmas has been assured on several occasions. It would be very important that anyone unfit to run a district should not be able to run for mayor, so that we do not get in a position to destroy the work that the government and István Tarlós have done in recent years. I ask the Prime Minister's Office to continue to do whatever it takes to ensure that this Treaty is terminated and that such a contract is no longer concluded. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-05-27-198	Thank you very much, Congressman. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-05-27-199	Thank you very much, Congressman, for your concern. I am able to inform you that, under the Fundamental Law and the relevant legislation, the Government Office exercises legal control over the municipalities and, in the case of the metropolitan authorities, the Metropolitan Government Office. On the basis of the information available to us, the special meeting on 13 May discussed the item on the agenda for the development of a parking system in Zugló. The minutes of the meeting have not yet been sent to the government office. The deadline for the referral expires on 28th. Legality supervisory powers are ex post on the basis of legislative requirements, and therefore, the receipt of the protocol should in any event be pending for the initiation of the investigation. But as soon as the minutes come in, the government agencies will take a decision to initiate the relevant judicial oversight procedure, and I promise you that we will also try to meet the demands of you. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-05-27-200	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Member Peter Jakab, Jobbik Group, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "The fight continues. It's an address. Mr. Prime Minister has appointed Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2019-05-27-201	I accept, thank you very much.
u2019-05-27-202	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-05-27-203	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Mr. Secretary. Not long ago, I asked Prime Minister to visit Tiszaújváros. Unfortunately, he couldn't make it; obviously, in the campaign, he had to lie a lot to stop immigration. But now I'm going to invite Mr. Prime Minister again for a tour, because there's a big problem. A migrant caravan headed for Hungary, and this migrant caravan is led by Fidesz. In Tiszaújváros MOL Zrt., a partly state-owned company, is commissioned to build a container city for 3,000 Turkish migrant workers in order to build a new chemical plant. And instead of ringing the alarm bells, here are the migrants, the Muslims, giving this 3,000 Turks a HUF 12 billion job creation grant. Well, Minister, how is this immigration thing now? Who is it that organizes immigration? Who is it who installs migrants to take the work of Hungarians? These 3,000 Turks come to Hungary not because of the quota, but because of Soros and Brussels, but because of your financial support. Let's just say that these people are being relocated from 12 billion to the place of the Hungarians who have been driven away by the humiliating wages! It's a state-funded population exchange. And this is just one example of many. Last year in the campaign, we were told that if you didn't win the election, the opposition would install migrants in barracks. I am passing through the country, and what I see in Kecskemét is that the Fidesz municipality is turning a barracks into a migrant hostel for the Ukrainians, in order not to have to raise the wages of Hungarians. Szentgotthárdon provides hotel conditions for Ukrainian migrant workers again, and they create a migrant hotel, when the Hungarian families are loaded into the street by thousands. Aren't you afraid to play with fire, Minister? Aren't you afraid that sooner or later there will be enough Hungarians in this country who will have nothing left to lose to take account of you and take revenge on you for all the depravity you've committed? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-05-27-204	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga, who wishes to answer the immediate question. Here you go, Deputy Prime Minister. [[18.00]]
u2019-05-27-205	Honourable Congressman, Mr President, Dear House, I was a little surprised to hear this immediate question. It's called "The Fight Continues," but it's as if this fight continues in your mind about the different news. Let's try to clean this up. [[James Peter: Come on! Deterioration in opposition benches.]] Mr President, if I may say so, I would like to continue, because the Member here is impatient and would like to speak again. First of all, in Hungary, the employment of a foreign worker requires a work permit. This type of licence application has not yet been submitted to a public authority in Hungary for the employment of such a large number of workers, so we do not know about this. Two, for MOL to invest in Tiszaújváros, I think it should be welcomed. This investment will be carried out here in Hungary, where it will contribute to the added value of the economy, and I am convinced that it will provide jobs for many Hungarian workers in a region where unemployment is still a little higher than the national average. Secondly, it mixes the creation of working hostels or working hotels. I myself was at the ceremony of such an investment in Zalaegerszeg. Yes, in Szentgotthárd there was one of the same types, for which the state provided support. We are creating these because there are regions in the country where there is not enough labour to make an investment, and we do not want to lose the opportunity to invest in these settlements as well. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] So I think that if a 180-seat working hotel or a working hostel is set up in Zalaegerszeg, it should be welcomed, because this will, for example, ensure the labour force needs of the test track that will take place in the coming months. So it is not worth confusing these facts, honourable Member. And I would like to reassure you once again that we will only issue a work permit when there is no adequate Hungarian labour force available. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and the creation of an investment would thus be compromised. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]]
u2019-05-27-206	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister Varga. You have a one-minute rejoinder.
u2019-05-27-207	I'm curious that Minister doesn't know about this 3,000 Turks. On the one hand, MOL Zrt. His CEO declared that 3 000 non-EU guest workers would arrive in Tiszaújváros, but the camera system had already started to be installed so it wouldn't be so big. Last week, a statement was published telling me that, oh, these migrant workers, these migrant workers, are only coming temporarily, they're just coming to work, and they're going to go home. And it occurred to me that, by the way, that's what German politics said a few ten years ago when the Turks came, and then somehow these Turks stayed there, but it doesn't seem to be a problem for you. There are plenty of hospitals in Hungary that can be closed. Last time, a hospital was shut down in Newpe to become a migrant hostel for Ukrainians. By the way, they do this when 24,000 Hungarians die every year for this, because there is no proper hospitalization, and the head of the Hospital Association close to the government talked about the fact that there are too many active hospitals in Hungary the other day. I will also ask the Minister about how many hospitals they want to close to become a migrant hostel, because there are plenty of migrant workers and a hospital to be demolished, apparently. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik. A voice from the benches of Fidesz: What a Bolshevik party!]]
u2019-05-27-208	Thank you. The vice-president shall also have the right to a rejoinder.
u2019-05-27-209	Thank you very much. It seems to me that the congressman's disturbance is increasing because we are now in the area of health care. I would like to inform you, honourable Member, that on Friday I had the opportunity to attend the inauguration of the new wing of the building at St. Francis Hospital, where, if I recall correctly, the hospital is expanding with 150 new beds. This is also part of the program where we spend about HUF 40-45 billion a year to renew our hospital properties in Budapest and the agglomeration. But by the way, the Member knows very well that if he added it up, if he would take the trouble to do so, that in recent years we have spent about HUF 500 billion not only from domestic sources, but also from EU sources to restore our hospitals in the country. So I'm asking you not to mix things up again. There is no link between the development of health care and the issue of work permits. Once again, I would like to reassure you that we are only issuing a type of permit that is two years old, that expires after two years, and that will not last. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] including establishment. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-05-27-210	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr.Lőrinc Nacsa, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question:, How does the government help small and medium-sized enterprises? It's an address. The Minister has given the Secretary of State an answer. I ask you, you accept Mr. Lőrinc Nacsa as a reply to Mr. Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés.
u2019-05-27-211	I'll take it.
u2019-05-27-212	He'll take it. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-05-27-213	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The government and the Fidesz-KDNP parliamentary majority also regard small and medium-sized enterprises operating in Hungary as strategic partners. Small and medium-sized enterprises play an important role in the country's income generation and employment, which is why the measures that the Ministry of National Economy has already taken are important. This is why the announcement that, when the Ministry of Innovation and Technology was established almost a year ago last year, Minister László Palkovics set out his main task to improve the productivity, innovation and competitiveness of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises in order to bring the product produced by the SME sector with the greatest added value. This is therefore one of the main objectives of the Ministry, but the first word is thanks, as the Hungarian SME sector has been able to significantly increase its export capacity in the last 8-9 years, and their performance has also increased above the Hungarian average. That is why I believe it is important that decisions be taken here in Parliament and in the government to help the entrepreneurial environment, to make it more friendly, especially on tax and regulatory issues, and to promote effective technological development, digitalisation and reduction of bureaucracy. We are facing a change of technology and it is therefore important that the efficiency, productivity per capita and added value of SMEs increase over the coming period. My first question would therefore relate to this: what does the government do, what measures, programmes it considers important, and what support does it support to bring us closer to the goals set for SMEs? I am also pleased that the government's strategy to help small and medium-sized enterprises is being prepared behind us with a wide range of social coordination, with the aim of making Hungary a strong domestic-owned entrepreneurial layer. That is why I ask the Honourable Secretary of State: what does the Hungarian Government do to help small and medium-sized enterprises? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-05-27-214	Thank you, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2019-05-27-215	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As you have mentioned, both the Fidesz-KDNP government and our ministry regard small and medium-sized enterprises as allies, on which they have always been able to rely in various economic matters. Therefore, their support and the establishment of conditions for their successful economic activity have been a major part of our policy since 2010. Thanks to this, these businesses have also undergone measurable development. Between 2009-17, the turnover of an average small and medium-sized enterprise increased by 15 percent in real terms and its export revenues by 47 percent. The added value it produced has increased by 27 percent in real terms. The number of employees in the sector increased by 155 thousand. Based on the EU Commission's figures, the productivity of SMEs in Hungary increased by 31,6 percent between 2010-17. This is twice as much as a domestic corporate productivity improvement. During this time I say only in comparison in the Visegrád region 6.3 percent and in the EU average, small enterprise productivity increased by 9.8 percent. The government has also been very helpful to these successes, for example by reducing taxes. Corporate tax before 2010 was 19 percent, now 9 percent. 300,000 people are using the kata, nearly 30 thousand businesses are using the kiva. Before 2010, the tax burden of an average medium-sized company was between 52 and 56 percent, now 39 percent. I would like to say that, in the new Széchenyi Plan, between 2010-13 HUF 331 billion, and from 2014 onwards, in the framework of the Széchenyi 2020 plan, directly and indirectly, a total amount of funding of HUF 3000 billion has been made available to businesses; and the rest of the data I would like to say will be continued within one minute of my time.
u2019-05-27-216	Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc has the floor.
u2019-05-27-217	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for the data you've already provided. It stands out that the Hungarian government is doing everything in its power to make the SME sector as competitive as possible and to help as much as possible with the technology to which the XXI. It is necessary to compete in the 100th century. I'd like to add one more subject to our subject here. [[18.10]] This is the generation change, which will be a key issue in the coming period. Helping young people, mentoring them, helping young people become entrepreneurs and increasing entrepreneurship will be extremely important in the coming time. In this, it is an important step to teach financial awareness, to teach entrepreneurial skills even in high school, and to support various mentoring programmes or entrepreneurial programmes that are essential on this path. Therefore, I am obviously asking Mr Secretary of State for further answers about how they are helping to change generations. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-05-27-218	Thank you very much. The rejoinder also deserves the Secretary of State.
u2019-05-27-219	Thank you very much. Before referring to the generation change, I would like to say first of all that between 2010 and 18, between 2010 and 18, several thousand billion forints were available as a reduced loan for small and medium-sized enterprises, for example, in order to enable their owners to develop their own business. To address the challenges faced by small and medium-sized enterprises and to further strengthen businesses in the next period, and here I would like to refer to the second question, which will be even more necessary in the face of digital and automation challenges. For this reason, in 2019 we will open a HUF 90.8 billion non-refundable and HUF 76.7 billion reimbursable funds, i.e. HUF 167.5 billion for SMEs, supporting them in digitalization and generational change as well as in technology change and expansion. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Competitive strong Hungarian businesses will play a key role in economic development and economic development over the next period. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-05-27-220	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We have passed by a few seconds, but I will give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, who wishes to ask the Foreign Minister an immediate question:. What do you think? It's an address. The Minister asked Mr Tamás Menczer, Secretary of State, to reply to his urgent public task. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity. [[Attila Mesterházy: Yes, Mr President, I accept.]] Yeah. You have the floor, Attila Mesterházy.
u2019-05-27-221	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I will seem to ask a party political question, but perhaps by the end you will understand that my question will be more about national interest. The government of Austria has failed today. I could say that in 24 hours the Austrian model, which the Prime Minister said should be followed as an example, is desirable for the centre-right parties. It is true that yesterday, on the night of the elections, the Prime Minister spoke about the Italian model as an example to be followed. I am concerned that we should not proceed in such a way as to be praised by Viktor Orbán, and that government will fail immediately. But the joke aside, apparently, the Prime Minister feels that he has started to run the country from a foreign policy point of view. Looks like the Prime Minister had a dream. This dream was about building a new alliance in Europe. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The New Testament is 2,000 years old.]] And he wishes to be an apostle of this new covenant. In such a way that this new alliance will determine the future of the European Union. These are populist, nationalist, Russian-service parties you've been thinking about. But let's look at the results. This alliance, this Salvini alliance, sends 58 out of 751, to the European Parliament, this is 7.7 percent, and the parties against which the Prime Minister wanted to form an alliance have two thirds in the European Parliament. So it is quite clear that the parties that shape Europe's future are two-thirds majority, the socialists, the people of the People's Party, the greens or the liberals. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State what his opinion is that Fidesz would not be a better place for Fidesz in the People's Party, and it would not be better for Fidesz to remain in the People's Party. Couldn't you better enforce national interest as a weak member of a strong alliance? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] As a strong member of a weak alliance? Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-05-27-222	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Secretary of State Tamás Menczer.
u2019-05-27-223	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, It is an honor to have you push foreign policy aspects at such a late hour. If you'll allow me, before I discuss your question, here at the end of the day, if I have the opportunity to say so, allow me to say that opposition speeches come to mind the coach of the beaten boxer. The anecdote says that the beaten boxer sits in the corner, his coach comes up and says everything's okay, you're doing really good, he can't hit you, you're in control. And the boxer says, "Master, look at the judge, 'cause someone's giving me a really big slap." So this is how both the MSZP and the entire opposition look, they got a huge slap from the Hungarian people, and today we are listening all day to the success of the opposition in the election and the failure of the government side in this election. Speaking of models, I don't want to get too involved in models. One thing is certain that the model represented by the opposition, in our case the Hungarian Socialist Party, is not the right direction and the wrong model. In fact, you, honourable Member, have drifted to the brink of invisibility, and, in fact, it was not so during your Presidency. So maybe there's going to be a redeployment in the presidency, I don't know if he's got such inspirations and ideas. As far as abroad is concerned, it is strange that all opposition representatives in the Hungarian Parliament are talking about what has happened abroad. That's why there was an election here yesterday, something happened in the country. They don't say a word about it. Of course, I can understand why, because if you want to watch the MSZP in particular, then MSZP can be characterized with a lot of things, they have already destroyed the country once with Gyurcsány, without Gyurcsány, you never know who is with whom, and now you can best describe it as one or two, or I don't know how many mandates, but with a zero mandate they participated in this competition yesterday. Honourable Congressman, I thank you for your comments on foreign policy, if you will allow me to continue to discuss them with the Minister. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-05-27-224	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You have the opportunity to respond in return, Congressman.
u2019-05-27-225	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Maybe I was wrong to accept the Secretary of State because I've heard so much nonsense in a long time. Thank you for your career guidance and career planning advice, leave that to me, and I'll take care of it. By the way, Mr. Secretary, I was talking about Hungary. I don't know if you noticed. I was talking about the fact that through the People's Party you can carry out Hungarian national advocacy in the interests of Fidesz Hungary better than as a member of an uncertain, messed-up alliance. And I see the Prime Minister is sensing this, because he's been talking about the fact that it's not decided to quit the People's Party yet. So the peacock dance or these two back so I can move one step forward, continues on Fidesz' side. I would most certainly suggest to you that you discuss with the Minister that you should discuss with the Prime Minister that you should apologize to Viktor Orbán for his pro-neutral partners and allies, receive the Council of Wise Men, perhaps give you some wise advice in terms of career planning and stay in the People's Party, because then also within the Socialists, Liberals and the People's Party. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] We can fight and lobby for Hungarian national interests in Europe. Now, this is about Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2019-05-27-226	Thank you very much. The rejoinder also deserves the Secretary of State.
u2019-05-27-227	Honourable Congressman, In this speech, you also dealt with the Fidesz, the government and the ruling parties, and if you are already consulting, you gave me advice. Thank you for that, we'll consider it. I understand that you prefer to deal with the government and the ruling parties, especially with the fact that there's 52 percent written there, and with the MSZP, there's something about six. I'd rather deal with the 52 percent party, too, but we'll deal with our own business. I think you'll have enough to do in your own party. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-05-27-228	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Péter Ágh, representative of Fidesz, also called the North Vas County, applied for a post-meeting address. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2019-05-27-229	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me to thank everyone who went and voted in the European Parliament elections here in the House of the country on 26 May. I am pleased that many people in my constituency, in the Iron 2nd individual district, felt the importance of voting and expressed their opinion. It is an honor to have tens of thousands of them honour the Fidesz with their trust, thus showing that they want representatives who represent not the interests of Brussels in Hungary, but the interests of Hungary in Brussels. [[18.20]] In North Vas county, Fidesz received more than 63 percent support based on Sunday figures, with 63 percent support. In the 70 villages of the constituency and in the cities of Bün, Celldömölk, Csepregen, Sarvar, Kőszeg, Répcelak and Vép, outstanding results were also achieved. We thank all the votes that have strengthened the government and thus contribute to an effective representation of national interest. In the history of Vas County, we can see that the people here have always considered it important to stand up for the safety of our nation, the protection of Christian values and our culture, and the strengthening of community families. Think of the siege of Kőszeg, Miklós Jurisics, to remember the struggles of the Nádasdys in Sárvár, the preservation of the Benedictine Benedictines in Celldömölk. Let us not forget the first elected MP of Sárvár and Kiscell, the Martyr Prime Minister Lajos Batthyány. The legacy of those who come before us is to protect national interests and the foundations on which our culture rests. Our task is to expand and pass it on to the generations after us. With yesterday's election, we were able to contribute to this profession, for which we owe thanks to our constituents. As regards the conduct of the election, I would like to thank all those who have provided the technical background, as have all the members of the electoral committee and the activists. I myself am very proud of my campaign team, which has worked with enormous energy to win. In their spare time, after studying or working, they worked for our common goals, which resulted. Thank you for that. Dear House, The success of the European Parliament election encourages us to continue our work in the service of the country with humility but great diligence. The goal remains that the 77 settlements of our country, including my constituency, in North Vas county, should advance step by step. That's why we work with people in the future. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-05-27-230	Thank you, Congressman Peter Agh. Following the agenda, representatives of DK, László Hajdu, applied for a speech. Against the citizens of the district. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-05-27-231	Mr President, Dear House, In fact, I gave the title that Fidesz's vendetta was the 15th. Against the citizens of the district. I did this because three months after 28 February, which is the legal deadline for a local government to have a budget, The district doesn't have a budget yet. The district works without a budget, and we owe it all to the Fidesz fraction. I would also like to say in front of the House that we have turned to the Ministry of Finance, turned to the Treasury, the State Audit Office, and turned to the Ministry of the Interior. At some level, control and other levels, everyone deals with the municipality. We were forced to turn to the National Election Commission, because the XV. In the absence of a budget in the district, there would have been no choice in the European Union. This is where we got a solution to this one point, so there was legally an election at XV. in the district. We've turned to the State Audit Office, and we can't solve it. There is only one vote missing in order to have a budget for the 15th century. the district, in the 29th year of the local government, the XV. In the district of Budapest, there is no such thing as a city-sized district with 81,000 inhabitants. Esztergom and Hódmezővásárhely syndrome developed in the 15th century. In the district, too. A mannequin is the 15th mannequin. district, we feel, at the Fidesz faction, at the Fidesz capital's leadership, but I also think it's more important than that. István György, head of the Metropolitan Government Office, has been contacted several times because, as deputy mayor, formerly as district mayor, and then here in the benches, he knows exactly the situation of the legitimate operation of the capital city, and he knows that, in the absence of a budget, a district cannot function. In any case, no institution operated from budgetary resources can operate. I have to add that damage has already been done to the district government, as the state normative, which in our case is about 2.5 billion forints, however, it was possible to stop it immediately. Since there's no budget, there's no norm. So it's the 15th. The district now operates by performing its mandatory tasks without a state normative, so there is a kindergarten, kindergartens, social benefits, but the associated norms, which are fundamental rights, I could say that the Hungarian state does not give rise to constitutional law, bleeding out a local government, which is why I wrote that this is in fact a vendetta. You know, as I said, almost every authority, every ministry, I assume that the Hungarian government, the Prime Minister, and the Fidesz party know that the XV. There's been a default in the district for the third month now, there's no budget for the district for three months. This also means that we are talking about a budget of HUF 25 billion. In addition to the budget of 25 billion, a number of proposals awarded with a deadline are not signed in the absence of a budget. They are a specific damage to a settlement where 81,000 people are punished. I believe that this is the injury during an earlier period of the IP. in the case of a district where damage has been caused by the body of representatives, it has been considered a criminal offence. Here I wanted to draw attention to the fact that we object to Fidesz punishing the population of a settlement. By the way, 42 percent of the European Union voted yesterday, 42 percent of which show that Fidesz was now punished by the population by 10 percent compared to more than 50 percent. Thank you for listening.
u2019-05-27-232	Thank you, Congressman Hajdu. Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, also applied for a post-meeting address with the title "Home or Home." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-05-27-233	Mr President, Dear House, As expected, on this parliamentary day, the results and certificates of the EP elections left behind were assessed by everyone according to their own taste. I'm sure you didn't miss the political and personal qualifications either. However, on several subjects we have not heard at all from the mouth of government representatives, typically the problems caused by emigration, so the future of complete Hungarian social groups has simply escaped the attention of the pro-government colleagues, none of whom I see in the benches. Obviously, I do not think of the President-in-Office or the notaries, because I do not see the whole room, but it is a matter of fact that when our national questions of fate do not fit, and because they cannot be spoken out by Fidesz on the agenda in a way that is not included on the agenda, they can only take place after the agenda. Actually, there's no one to discuss it with, which is at least talkative in terms of public relations. However, it is possible to boast about the elections to the European Parliament, whether about the mobilisation system in Hungary or about the taking over and the looting of public media, also to invent eulogies in the parliamentary corridor by pro-government representatives, but still the indicators of obstinacy, our questions of fate are in the same place where they have been, or even a little further down. After all, the number of live births has fallen again, the number of deaths has increased again, and, unfortunately, the fertility rate has fallen again. So even the number that assumed at least some form of reproductive desire from the shrinking base began to decline, but unfortunately this also stopped and then decreased. And there has been no change in the extremely vulnerable situation of the Hungarians as regards their wages and the prices they encounter in the various plant units. It can be said that if we look at our membership of the EU and I am very sad that during the whole campaign we have not actually discussed an EU balance sheet, we can see that since accession, GDP per capita has risen by 57 percent. Once again, over a decade and a half in the future. [[18.30]] However, this is the lowest for both the region and the countries under investigation. For example, in Poland, this increase is 100 percent, and if we look at the surrounding countries or even the Czech Republic and its associates, we can see that there has been an increase from a completely different base, so these countries are not as underdeveloped as the current Hungary. We also see that there is an amazing difference, an amazing difference, as far as the West and the East are concerned, in Hungary, where there are 30-40 years of development difference. Let us look at unemployment indicators, which, for example, can be shown in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg, in one of my family's counties of origin, sometimes above 8 percent. And while inviting the masses of migrant workers to Hungary by Viktor Orbán and his team, it can be said that 600 thousand Hungarian compatriots, including many young people, work either perfectly in the black economy or on a border of the grey economy where they receive a small part of the salary by official means, and all the rest of it either in nature or under hand. And this vulnerability could be reduced by bringing as many of our compatriots as possible back to the active sphere, where appropriate, to the jobs that cheap import aliens are now going to fill according to the government's intention. We also see that this gap is amazing in terms of capital and countryside. Another statistics concerning Szabolcs-Szatmár-Beget: they are able to leave more than twice as much money in the shops in Budapest as they are in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, and for a capital city it is not only twice as much, but sometimes this difference is 140 percent, depending on the products and age groups we are looking at. I would also like to say that, in terms of wages, if we look at Hungarian wages in euro, there has been a certain distance from the countries of the region. So we can also set an example by which, not only did Hungarian payments not come closer to the so-called Western average, but they even moved away. That is why I am sad and sad, because the Jobbik wage union concept, which would provide a solution to this, was a slow but predictable solution, could not, in essence, have been a professional debate without partners, but in the coming years, we are not dissuaded by slowing down Hungarian emigration, by working out a home creation and renting program and by passing through the Wage Union, so that all Hungarian young people can feel at home, who really want to thrive here. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-05-27-234	Thank you very much, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Dear Parliament, Félix Félix Farkas spoke for Roma ethnicity after the agenda, with the title "The case of the Turkish Szentmiklós." You have the floor, Mr Speaker, within a five-minute time frame.
u2019-05-27-235	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The migration of the Hungarian Movement on May 21, 2019 was banned by the police, but the static demonstration for order was granted. Speaking of László Toroczkai's demonstration of power, one man physically assaulted two others in a Turkish Szentmiklós tram. The authorities did not allow marching in Turkszentmiklós because it would have been specifically organised in the streets inhabited by Gypsies, but the legislation makes it clear that no one should be restricted in his freedom of movement or intimidated in his own home. Toroczkai talks about the unspoken terror in his speech at Törökszentmiklós, and about a raging lunatic who doesn't belong to a Gypsy family, by the way. He also pointed out that our Hungarian compatriots should be terrified of Gypsy criminal groups. As a Roma minority advocate, I would like to highlight two things. One is that today in Hungary the protection of public security is not the responsibility of the Hungarian Movement, but of the authorities. The other is that, yes, sin must be persecuted, not condemned for sin and crime because it was committed by a Roma or not by a Roma, because sin has no colour. And clinging to the fact that a Romani man was the perpetrator in Turkszentmiklós, there cannot be enough reason for László Toroczkai to call out a Gypsy crime. Those who present a serious threat to our countrymen in Hungary today are the legacy balds of the Hungarian Movement. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Mr President, exclusional!]] With their principles, their ideas, but with their appearance, they scare us. And with their racist manifestations, they want to label the Hungarian gypsy, who, by the way, fit into the majority society. I call László Toroczkai and the members and sympathizers of the Hungarian Movement, so that in 2019 they do not want to tear up the people living in Hungary, and do not want to insult the population with hate speech, but rather to vote alongside peaceful coexistence. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: János Pócs!]] Hungary protects both the majority society and its nationalities. I stress that this is not the mission of our country's movement. As Hungary is also committed to racism, anti-Roma and hatred, I trust that the Hungarian Movement and no extremist organization will tear apart the living together and will not drive a wedge between the majority society and the Roma nationality living here. All legal means must be used to prevent the development of such and similar extremist organizations, causing fear in all decent Hungarian people. I emphasize it in all Hungarian people. It is sad to talk about someone's intention to promote his political advancement through deliberate anti-Gypsy incitement. Would the Hungarian Movement organise a migration to protect Gypsy victims? You also remember the murders of the Roma in 2009. Then why didn't extremist organizations demonstrate to protect Gypsyism? Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-05-27-236	Thank you, Mr Felix Wolf. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day is closed, and I wish you a restful evening.
