u2019-01-03-0	Good morning. [[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] I wish you once again good morning, fellow Members. [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties, including: Good morning! Good morning.]] I wish everyone a happy new year with love. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties, including: Colleagues? Where's the Fidesz?]] I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, you will be notaries Lajos Szűcs and Sándor Szabó. Welcome to our guests and everyone who will be monitoring our meeting today. The pre-meeting speeches will follow. That's enough! Mr Péter Jakab asked for a speech before the agenda entitled "Jobs Group." There you go. You have the floor.
u2019-01-03-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I ask the classic question: where did Viktor Orbán go? And where did the Fidesz congressmen go? Well, we've got work to do, folks. It's overtime! And I don't see a single Fidesz politician in front of me, even though there are some of you here who don't sit here for five million forints a month, hanging out for five million forints from work. You're telling me that the Fidesz slave owners say they support the overtime of the people, but they don't support their own. The people would be worked to death, but the work stinks to them. This is one of the lessons of today's meeting. Another lesson is that Fidesz has reached the level of regime building when Fidesz MEPs are irritated by the mere existence of Parliament - their very existence. They don't want to come to work. They think that if you have to be here, like they did last time, then this is a fidesz pub where they can talk to their fidesz friends, yell, do whatever they want, where the mob boss writes the house rules; you think this is Parliament for you. Last time, the mob boss of Hungary violated the Hungarian people in the ring of his own thugs when he stabbed them in the back, they beat through this House the slave law and the law on administrative courts, breaking all written and unwritten rules with their feet. On that day, Fidesz showed the protein of its teeth, showing what a fidesz sense of democracy was like when anyone could vote for anyone without a representative card, without an agreed agenda, without regular sitting. Let us say, fellow Members, that on that day, on 12 December, the laws that the Fidesz people had cheated through the House could not enter into force in the rule of law, and not only because they were illegally adopted, but, above all, they could not enter into force because the Hungarian people do not want these laws. 83 percent of Hungarians reject the slave law, two thirds of the Fidesz people reject it. Today, they are the Hungarian workers and the Hungarian students who, according to Fidesz, are ordinary Soros-benders only because they do not want to be slaves in their own country. We're getting to the point that everyone in this country is a Soros hireler, but they don't know it yet. But the TV will tell you to listen, because this is what the public media knows today: they lie about Hungarians from HUF 90 billion a year to Hungarians. And it is very clear that when the Fidesz public media sinks to such a level that they lie not only about us, but also about opposition politicians, but they lie about Hungarian workers, they lie about Hungarian students, then we Members have no opportunity, but we have a dog's duty to go into the public building to ask the news director why you are lying. The answer to this question can only be in a dictatorship by sending armed guards to the Members, armed guards who seem to have more authority in Hungary today than the Hungarian police. Where do we live, people? ! Mexico? What's the next step? Are we going to be imprisoned just because we're opposition representatives? Because that's what happens in dictatorship. But I have good news for Fidesz: the people woke up, the people woke up on December 12th, and since then, if necessary, they yelled at the many years of Hungarian silence every day that it was enough, screaming that we were sick of it, because we were sick of it. In fact, we good-looking people have had enough not only of the last eight years, but also of the past decades, not only after 2010, but also before 2010. We don't want a 2006 rubber bullet or a 2018 tear gas. We do not want a multi-friendly anti-worker policy before 2010 or after 2010. We want a Hungary where Hungarians can make a living on their salaries, where quality work is paid. That's why we put the matter of the Wages Union on the agenda, which is why we fought for the Wages Union. But in this fight, we, the good guys, carried the flag alone. Now, however, we cannot just take this flag, because when a nation is to be enslaved, when a lunatic would be willing to sell his own nation to the multinationals and their oligarchs for 30 pieces of silver, then everyone is needed, regardless of ideologies, especially trade unions, trade unions who are not expected by Hungarian workers to sign an 8 percent minimum wage increase without a sock in the year when ministers' wages are increased by 354 percent. We need trade unions that, if necessary, will go to the wall or beyond the wall for the workers. Yes, if you must, let's have a general strike. Yes, if necessary, stop life in the country, so that we can get our lives back in our country, because the Hungarian worker does not want to die for work, but wants to make a living of it, and not as a persecution of Orbán somewhere in Europe, but as a proud Hungarian in his own country. So for them and for all Hungarians, my friends, let's sweep this system away! [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties, including: Yes! That's right! Orbán, get out! Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2019-01-03-2	Thank you very much. Government response won't come to him according to my information. [[Intervention in the ranks of opposition parties: We thought so!]] Ms Szabó Timea, Head of Group, also applied for a pre-meeting address on current affairs. There you go. You have the floor.
u2019-01-03-3	[[Szabó Timea stands up with a selfie stick in his hand. The Dialogue, representatives of DK and MSZP present and independent representatives stand up. å Several people are putting their cell phones in front of them.]] Me, Szabó Timea [[The Dialogue, representatives of DK and MSZP, together with some independent representatives, will read the speech in their own name together with Szabó Timea.]] I pledge to be faithful to the goals of the resistance and to the demands of the Hungarian people for five points. I condemn the physical abuse of opposition representatives. I demand that public media do not serve as a party but as a public service. I demand a ban on paid government propaganda. I promise you that I will fight together with all democratic opposition to achieve these five points. I promise to spread and represent five points of the Hungarian people in all possible forums. We demand the immediate withdrawal of the slave law. We demand less police overtime. We demand independent courts. We demand that you join the European Public Prosecutor's Office. We demand an independent public media. So help me God.
u2019-01-03-4	Thank you very much. Is that the end of the faction leader? [[Szabó Timea: I'm done.]] Thank you very much. [[Representatives of the Dialogue, DK and MSZP, as well as some independent representatives, leave the meeting room.]] Bertalan Tóth, leader of the group, from the MSZP, has also applied for a speech before the agenda. Mr Fraction Manager is leaving the room, so he does not require his speech before the agenda. At the same time, MEP Ágnes Vadai has applied for a speech before the agenda, also on our current affairs. He has also left the meeting room, so he does not require his speech before the agenda. [[9.10]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This spoke before the agenda on betrayal of the nation from the LMP Group, Mr László Keresztes Lóránt Group leader. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2019-01-03-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, - who are in the Chamber. First of all, allow me to wish all Hungarians a happy, productive year and a year of hope for change. I agree with my fellow Members who spoke before me, the factions before me, with so much difference that I do not think anyone was surprised that the Hungarian Parliament's pro-government representatives are not coming to work today, they are not in the Chamber. They have dishonorably voted in favour of this slave law and many other shameful laws, and they feel that they have done their job and are now practically resting at home. In particular, they tell everyone that they are not interested in the fate of the workers, they are not interested in the situation of the Hungarian people, they are not interested in the damage they cause to the Hungarian nation and to the Hungarian society, they are not interested in the wave of protests which, by the way, started surprisingly in Hungarian public life and in Hungarian society. It's a symbolic move by the Fidesz MEPs, let's not be surprised, we didn't expect anything else from them, to be honest. At the same time, it is symbolic that opposition representatives were able to organise a parliamentary meeting together, despite the fact that, as has been said, there are significant differences between opposition parties, huge, insurmountable ideological differences, but at the same time these opposition parties have shown that they can establish historic cooperation on this important issue and stand together in order to destroy this slave law. This stand is also symbolic, and this opposition stand symbolizes that it is impossible to back down in this case, because there is nowhere to back down. Specifically, Viktor Orbán and Fidesz attacked the nation. Viktor Orbán and Fidesz betrayed Hungarian workers, betrayed Hungarian people, and delivered them to the interests of large companies. The essence of Viktor Orbán's economic policy, which we can observe from 2010 onwards, is that he is trying to encourage investment in the vulnerable Hungarian labour force for cheap wages, thus trying to meet the interests of multinational companies. We can see the effects of this policy over the last eight years. Hundreds of thousands of people were forced to migrate from the country, precisely as a result of the wage crisis caused by this policy. Hungary has already broken down in terms of wage levels within the region. There is now only greater poverty in Bulgaria within the European Union than in Hungary. The result of this policy is the national tragedy that has happened that hundreds of thousands of people have been forced to leave this country, not out of an adventure, simply because they have not made a living after their decent work. And the Fidesz politicians who lie to themselves as nationals, who are not here at the Parliament meeting right now, deny this problem, are not even willing to argue about it. Now they want to introduce this slave law, which has the same effect, only increasing it - it's practically oil on the fire. There has been an extremely serious shortage of labour, which has already been recognised by the Prime Minister, and this lack of labour has already become so deep that in some sectors it is practically threatening to collapse. This law would not remedy the problem even in the short term, it would simply be oil on the fire, it would increase the issue of emigration, and it would cause damage if it remained so, if this law remained in force in its present state, the effects of which are inaccessible. Even in the event of a change of government, it would take up to a decade to eliminate the very serious destructive effects of this. That is why the opposition must send a message from Parliament and from the street, from everywhere that this struggle has not ended in the last year, this struggle must start now. The opposition parties must stand side by side in the fight, but I agree with my fellow Members that in this fight, interest representatives, trade unions must take the lead, trade unions must raise the flag, and opposition parties must stand close behind the trade unions, putting aside the differences between us. It must also be said that in this struggle, everyone must play their part with their own means, and everyone must become part of this resistance in accordance with their own opportunities, bravely, forcefully, loudly, but I add, and that is extremely important: forcefully. Viktor Orbán and Fidesz must understand that Hungarians do not want to work overtime, Hungarians want to make a living on their salaries; they want to make a living on the salary they could earn by working 8 hours of decent work. To do this we wish courage, struggle for everyone, and meet on the street. Thank you very much.
u2019-01-03-6	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the House that on 21 December 2018, Member Sándor Székely informed the President of the Parliament that he had resigned from the parliamentary group of the Democratic Coalition, so that the number of the group has fallen to eight. The Member shall continue his work as an independent person. I would also like to inform you that representatives of Bernadett Szél, Ákos Hadházy, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and László Varju have announced a violation of their immunity. To examine these, the president issued them to the immunity committee. Dear Parliament, President János Áder sent a transcript to Parliament on the termination of the office of State Secretary. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the transcript of the President of the Republic. Here you go, notary.
u2019-01-03-7	Mr. László Fat, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the Parliament that Article 9 (four) (j) of the Fundamental Law and XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys of State. Law 54. On 17 December 2018, the mandate of Dr. Gábor Czepek, State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Government Office, was terminated. Budapest, December 14, 2018 Sincerely: János Áder
u2019-01-03-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, I declare that 43 Members are members of the Parliament Act 35. H/4076 on the protection of the rights of Members of Parliament. In order to discuss a proposal for a decision. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that Mr Máté Kocsis and Mr Péter Harrach have by letter initiated the vote on the use of ballot counting machines, and I would also like to inform you, on the basis of written information from the representatives of Fidesz and KDNP, that I do not really see an opportunity to restore the quorum today, as the two factions indicated in their letter to the Speaker that they will not attend today. Since the dates of the decisions are given, I'll ask the faction leaders present, we'll stick to that, or we'll just... It is my duty to establish a list of missing persons. So now let's vote... [[Intercoms: Vote!]] Yeah. Thank you. The faction leaders agree. [[9.20]] Then I ask with all due respect that we decide on the agenda put forward by the President. [[Tibor Bana: Do you need a card to vote? Defiance. Márton Gyöngyösi: Only because we saw it go on without it! Defiance.]] I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda. I'm asking you to vote with a machine. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament is not entitled to a decision by 27 votes in favour, without voting against, with 1 abstention. Now, I'm going to ask for a list of missing people to be established and set up accordingly. The meeting's closed. Thank you very much for your appearance.
