u2019-02-25-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good afternoon. Dear Parliament, The 4th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and György Szilágyi will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, In 2000, the National Assembly declared 25 February as a memorial day for the victims of communist dictatorships. On this day, February 25, 1947, the Soviet authorities illegally arrested Béla Varga Secretary-General of the Independent Little Farmers' Party. [[Interventions from the benches of LMP and Jobbik: Béla Kovács!]] He was illegally imprisoned and then dragged to the Soviet Union, where he was sentenced to 25 years of forced labour. It wasn't just his way of life that broke in two. Forsa also predicted the chances of the democratic development of Hungary after World War II. Autonym, executions, tortures, illegal procedures, conceptual lawsuits, forced labour camps, internment, disenfranchization of rights from Hungarian and universal history are such well-known concepts that are inextricably attached to the name of totalitarian systems, including communism. In Hungary, a hundred years ago, in March 1919, the Communists seized the government. The number of death victims of the Republic of the Council, as well as the subsequent retaliation, is estimated to be hundreds. The age at the Parliament and its house also caused deep wounds. Lajos Návay, former Speaker of the House, was taken hostage, and on 29 April he and several of his associates were shot to death at the Kiskunfélegyháza station. Today, his memory is guarded by a plaque at the entrance of the Delegation Hall of the Parliament. In the Parliament, the infamous political police of the Republic of the Council operated, which used the Parliament building as a prison, held its defendants, high-ranking political hostages and all those whom the regime thought were enemies. After World War II, in 1949, this was just seventy years ago the conceptual trial through which the Catholic Church was to be broken by the regime. However, Cardinal József Mindszenty could not be dissuaded by torture or prison. His identity has become a symbol of resistance to communism both in Hungary and abroad. Mindszenty was rehabilitated after the change of system. On this day, alongside the Honourable Parliament, Béla Kovács and József Mindszenty, we commemorate the many thousands of crippled and looted families, people deprived of their freedom, and often the victim sunk into anonymity, who have been innocent and meaningless victims of the blinded and feral followers of an ideology. Dear Parliament, We will begin our work today with speeches before the agenda; from approximately 12:35 a.m. to 14:05 a.m. for questions, then from approximately 14:05 a.m. to 15:05 a.m. for immediate questions and answers; finally, we will complete the Parliament's session with speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government today, Minister for Finance Mihály Varga has applied for a new upgrade title for Hungary. Minister, you have the floor, please.
u2019-02-25-1	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, the two ratings are the reason for my speech, but I think that economic data that have come to light in recent weeks is definitely a better assessment of the performance of the Hungarian economy. The two ratings were also born in the last two weeks: they gave Hungary a better classification of long-term debt risk. This means that the Hungarian economy is growing and the Hungarian economy is performing better. And the special joy for us is that this is now recognised from where we had received the toughest criticisms. I would also like to add and remind my fellow Members that, in 2011, or in 12 or in 13, when the credit rating agencies downgraded the long-term prospects of the Hungarian economy, we also said, and here I would quote Prime Minister Viktor Orbán that the downgrades will be followed by ratings. The point is not that, not in itself, what is important is the opinion of external actors on the Hungarian economy; it is much more important that the economic policy changes that have been made in relation to employment, the reduction of debt and the suppression of deficit result in results. And here it has become a fact: Standard & Poor s and Fitch Ratings credit rating agencies have now made it past two weeks. So we have come to an important milestone. It is worth looking at the trends highlighted in the credit rating report. These, I must say, are also entirely in line with the expectations of the Hungarian government. On 11 February, the Statistical Office published the most important data for 2018, and this shows that the third edition of the report was published in the Official Journal of the European Union. After the end of the quarter, the following shall be added to Annex IV: The performance of the Hungarian economy increased by 5 percent in the quarter as well. In the meantime, the economic performance of the euro zone, the Western European countries and Germany has decreased and slowed in the last two quarters of 2018, i.e. in the last quarters of 2018. On the other hand, the performance of the Hungarian economy remained outstanding. With this growth, the Hungarian economy is at the forefront of the EU Member States, and we are also at the forefront of the Central European countries, the Eastern Central European countries. Overall, economic growth was 4.8 percent in 2018, and I would like to remind you that this economic growth, unlike the period of socialist governments, is not served by debt or privatisation, but by a level playing field that seeks to increase all economic sectors in a healthy proportion. This is what we see in the decline in debt in recent years. In 2010, it was 83 percent of gross domestic product, and now it has fallen below 71 percent at the end of last year. Employment is constantly expanding. Last year, the number of people working exceeded 4.5 million, which, compared to the 3,8 million jobs inherited in 2005, shows that more than 700 thousand people are working in Hungary now. It is no coincidence that the unemployment rate has fallen to 3.6 percent, making us among the four best performing countries in the European Union with regard to the unemployment rate. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] And all of this involved an increase in wages and earnings. The gross earnings in Hungary increased by more than 11 percent last year, so this also means that while the structure of the Hungarian economy is in balance, while we are growing, it becomes noticeable to the average person that he is the number one beneficiary of this economic growth. [[11.10]] The rate of inflation remained moderate in a range of less than 3 per cent, so it is not the case, as in the period of socialist governments, that wage growth should be achieved in a particularly high inflation environment. Ladies and gentlemen, Obviously all of this is the result of joint efforts: the joint effort of Hungarian people, domestic businesses and government has led to results in recent years. We still have important years ahead of us, the Hungarian economy: we need to improve competitiveness, increase employment, enable as many people as possible to work in a position suitable for their qualifications and qualifications, continue the debt reduction and strengthen the Hungarian families, help the Hungarian families to have more children and raise more children. The work must therefore continue. I call for the support and assistance of my fellow Members. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-25-2	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the political groups can reflect within a two-minute time frame. First, Congressman Erik Bánki of the Fidesz Group, please.
u2019-02-25-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, allow me to congratulate you on the performance that the Hungarian economy has achieved over the last 8 years, because, as Minister pointed out, in 2011, when the turn started on economic policy, and the Hungarian model, which was criticised by so many on the part of the European Commission, by the European Parliament or by the downgrades of credit rating agencies at the time, has not given confidence to the Hungarian economy, this model has now proved that it has not only been able to create one of Europe's most dynamic growth economies, and indeed, last year's annual 4.8 percent economic growth, especially the last quarter, has been able to produce three times what the average of the European Union has done. So I think that the numbers are valid for us, and, of course, although it was absolutely important for us to have both large credit rating agencies' decisions, I think that the market has already decided that much earlier. After all, the fact that Hungary was able to increase its ability to attract foreign capital year after year and, year after year, in 2017 and then in 2018, the inflow of foreign working capital into Hungary has peaked, shows that foreign large companies and, by the way, small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary have trusted the performance of the Hungarian economy, they trusted the economic policy which has been consistently followed by the Hungarian government since 2011 and the results of which have led here. I would also like to highlight three other things that have helped us with our current qualification. This is real wage growth, which has also been high for years, above 10 per cent; growth in net financial assets; and growth in internal consumption. I think that this will also stabilise the Hungarian economy in the coming years. I therefore wish that this great series should continue in 2019. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-25-4	Thank you very much. Majority Leader Márton Gyöngyösi, representative of Jobbik, please.
u2019-02-25-5	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Of course, we should be pleased with all the recognitions and ratings, since, basically, when credit rating agencies make an opinion on Hungary, foreign investors usually decide on the basis of this opinion which country to invest their money in. If, in this sense, Hungary's image is more favourable than before, then we could and should be happy about it. However, I am afraid that Minister is misinterpreting this message. This message is only about the fact that everything is okay with regard to macro indicators in Hungary. And, of course, we are glad that our debt is falling, we are glad that employment is enlarged, even if the government achieves hundreds of statistical tricks, of course we are glad that our GDP and our export indicators are growing, but this only proves that you are pursuing the same neoliberal policy and economic policy that your predecessors are doing, to the top, the policy with which multinational companies and foreign investors established in Hungary often work at the expense of Hungarian workers. Minister, 600,000 young people have left this country under your leadership. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: A week ago, it was a million!]] And 370 thousand young people are thinking about leaving this country, including because they do not trust your economic policy, and who sees that in a country where membership of the Party determines who can achieve what, and not talent and knowledge, they will flee from this country. Minister, this country is already struggling to catch up with Romania on real wages. We're slipping down at regional level. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Who believes you?]] We are moving further away from the Western European countries. That is why we would like to draw your attention to the fact that wage development and prosperity are at the heart of government economic policy, not GDP indicators and macro indicators. Thank you for your attention. [[Dr. Pál Völner: You don't believe it yourself! Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-02-25-6	Thank you. Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, representative of KDNP, please.
u2019-02-25-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, We also thank you for the good news and for the work that has resulted in more and more good news from the Hungarian economy's house in recent years. This is the joint result of the Hungarian people, Hungarian businesses and the Fidesz-KDNP government. Thank you all for that. Obviously, opposition representatives and Balliberal press products who campaigned abroad and at home all the time with the fact that employment data, growth indicators are cosmetics and tried to paint the picture as if the Hungarian economy were in a bad or deteriorating state; this is what we have heard from Mr Gyöngyösi, Head of Group. Another movie is being watched by the leader of the faction. We know where we started in 2010: we took over a country on the verge of bankruptcy and a ruined economy. The socialist government led by Gyurcsány made one million people unemployed, their austerity targets were families who raised children, lied about the budget deficit, and their promises were also financed by credit to devalue people's salaries and pensions because of high inflation. [[Gergely Harvester: Ask the teachers.]] If you can put it this way, it is time for this rating, because the country has been on the growth path for years, wages are rising, we are approaching full employment, the budget is stable, the public debt is on a declining path, investments, exports and consumption are also increasing. The Christian Democratic People's Party welcomes this new recognition and is still ready to give the government all the help, for example as regards parliamentary decisions, to help with decisions that will lead the country forward on the right path, on the path to growth and stability. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-25-8	Thank you. Congressman László Varju, DK, please.
u2019-02-25-9	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr President, It is too easy to start by saying that self-gratification is very stinky, but after nine years something has to happen, because they are now getting to where Hungary was once. After nine years of work... [[Intercoms.]] In fact, we've been better, haven't we? We owe your performance, your performance, for example, to Szilárd Németh's Secretary of State, that we are here, even though it has been paid by the people who have been taken away, at the expense of whom it has been paid, at the cost of their wages, to whom it has been brought up. He says, Minister, that employment has increased significantly, with 700,000 people. Well, there are about that many people abroad, so many people were chased away from Hungary, so many people went there because they couldn't make a living here in Hungary. And, of course, when you are very proud, Minister, that the labour law was designed to meet capital, yes, it is called the slave law, that the labour code in which the strike was banned is, in effect, the labour code in which people are otherwise served so that they can only work overtime. Therefore, we have no reason to be happy that Hungary was brought out of the buoy. It's gonna take a little more than that. [[11.20]] And the price and the amount of money: beyond the Hungarian people's money, with the support of the European Union, the money with whom you are always at war. And if we have that kind of money, Minister, why can't you get to health care, why can't you get to education, why can't you get to the people whose heads the ceiling is on? Please answer that. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks. Dr. Bence Rétvári: If you lie, the ceiling will fall on your head!]]
u2019-02-25-10	Thank you. László László Keresztes, Leader of the Group, LMP. Here.
u2019-02-25-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I have to agree with my opposition colleague before me. I think it is symbolic that Minister Mihály Varga refers to credit rating agencies, those credit rating agencies that he abused years ago. Then you're talking about a world financial conspiracy, and now you're referring to the upgrading of these institutions. There are different macro numbers that can be flashed, which we can say are good macro numbers, but they don't say much about Hungarian reality. We can say that that is the virtual reality that you spoke of, Minister. My fellow Member has already indicated that behind these figures there are EU funds, EU resources used, but a significant part of them have already been spent. At the same time, we know that there are resources we'll never get, like the 13 billion of Elios. At the same time, behind these figures are the transfers of hundreds of thousands driven away from the country by neoliberal economic policy. So what you're saying, Minister, is virtual reality. By the way, he acknowledged this himself, so he acknowledged the unstable situation of the economy when he spoke about the need for an economic protection action plan about a month ago. Minister, the reality is, as my fellow opposition Members have already said, that hundreds of thousands of people have left this country because of your economic policy, thousands of families have been torn apart. Hungary has now become the second poorest country in the EU. Minister, it is not possible that neoliberal economic policy is fundamentally flawed that they are making a country of assembly, delivering Hungarian workers, working them for low wages. Finally, understand that the Hungarian people do not want to work overtime, but to make a living on decent wages after their work. Thank you very much.
u2019-02-25-12	Thank you very much. Congressman Bence Tordai, deputy leader of the Dialogue Group. Here you go.
u2019-02-25-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Citizens, There may be a very serious problem in Fidesz if one of the steps of credit rating agencies is to be so pleased when the minister comes here to triumph if there are no actual results but to celebrate the usual reclassifications. The reclassification of an institution that Fidesz called one of the speculators' lobbying institutions in 2012. This rating is not about how people live in Hungary; it is not about what Hungary's competitiveness is, it is not even about what it is like to attract capital, it is about whether they think that they will pay back the loans they have taken. So what we're talking about here is the quality of debt, is whether you guys leave enough money in the register after the theft to pay back the loans you're about to take. Compared to this, if we are talking about wage increases, let's see what Tamás Meltár proved: in seven years, 14 percent in all seven years! real wage growth, which is at least a pathetic category. Or if you want to see how much money people have, let's look at actual consumption. The actual individual consumption index in Hungary is 68 percent, which means that we are the last-to-last in the European Union. Romania has left us behind! I don't think you should be polishing yourself with that big breast, that big saliva. Take a little step back from the face, take a little look at the Hungarian reality, try to serve the interests of the people, and not look at the Hungarian economy from the perspective of international creditors. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2019-02-25-14	Dear Parliament, The representative of the Democratic Coalition, Mr Gergely Arató, has applied for a pre-meeting speech:. Who said that? It's an address. Here you go.
u2019-02-25-15	Ladies and Gentlemen, The quality and reputation of Hungarian science are not worth selling, it is a political issue in Hungary. It is not a party-political issue, but a matter of national policy, because we Hungarians do not have nuclear weapons arsenals, although we can say that without Hungarian scientists there may be nothing else today. We don't have a lot of oil, although we do have excellent oil specialists. We cannot stand out with the population of hundreds of millions, as we Hungarians give a small proportion of the world's population. So we have to cook from what we have, and we have to eat, we have a specific mindset and we have a serious scientific tradition. In today's world, there is a knife-pointing struggle for the heads of scientists. Once the recipe for the best economic policy was to prevent a country's gold supply from spilling out. Today, the question is what we can do about losing talented Hungarian scientists, and we have to face this issue in an open, internationalized scientific era. It's easy to talk about, but it's hard to find the right answer. The reality is that open and background powers have built up a system in the world, including around us, that actually serves the brain drain as well as other goals. While we worked after 1990 to stay on our feet at all, they created research conditions to the west of us, and even now to the east of us that attract talented researchers from all parts of the world, including Hungary. The country's public opinion should know that the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and the Hungarian government have not accepted this subordinate, spiritually subordinate and vulnerable situation and do not wish to accept it in the future. We would therefore like to thank the Academy again for publishing the Lendület programme, which started in 2009 with five research groups and HUF 500 million. If I understand correctly and count correctly, the number of research groups has now increased to 79, while the amount of funding has increased to HUF 4 billion. Even so, in many areas, the track is down to us negatively. I would like to thank the Hungarian researchers who stayed home, as well as those who, presumably armed with more knowledge, returned to Hungary from abroad. At home, completing a scientific career, starting a school at home is a patriotic philosophy of life. Because whoever chooses to do so also chooses to work not only for science but also for Hungarian science, or for Hungary. Ladies and Gentlemen, In the post-crisis world, which also represents a new era, because the balance of power has fundamentally changed, we can only be competitive if we are innovative. For this, however, we also need to create institutional and financial conditions for world-class research work in Hungary. That is why we decided years ago to make an alliance with the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. I'm sure a lot of people know who I've been quoting in the last few minutes. I quoted Viktor Orbán's speech about the 187th General Assembly of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences from 2016. And why am I quoting this to you? Because I want you to know, and the whole country knows that what you and the Hungarian Academy of Sciences are doing is not a coincidence or a mistake. You know how important the Hungarian Academy of Sciences is, you know how important Hungarian science is, you know how important it is to develop Hungarian science, you have made an alliance with the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, and now you are beating up, betraying, destroying their allies, destroying Hungarian science, destroying the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. This is not a mistake, but a deliberate crime against the Hungarian nation and Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2019-02-25-16	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Péter Cseresnyés, State Secretary, responds. Here you go.
u2019-02-25-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I'm surprised to hear Gergely Arató's very strong comment. It can be said that if we had listened only to his thoughts superficially, we would agree on the goals. We also want an effective, well-functioning MTA and its institutions to serve Hungarian society, Hungarian science and the Hungarian economy in the following year. We want Hungary to be one of the five European countries that provide the best results for life by 2030, and we need science and the economy to be at the service of this. We also set it as a goal, and that is why I welcome the government's revelation, Minister Varga said before the agenda, that the economy will be doing so that by 2020 we will also be able to achieve the goal of turning 1.8 percent of GDP into science and scientific research. [[11.30]] To do so, however, the economy must continue to produce, and scientific performance and the performance of research institutions should be one that promotes this economic development and economic development. But it must be stated sadly, and these facts are ignored by you, that, in recent times, Hungarian science, research in Hungary, in the international innovation ranking and in the number of patents, is quite behind. One part of this is that in recent years, the number of patents granted by academic research institutes has been very small, while they have received 17 billion forints a year from the state. Thus, for renewal and expansion, the technical aspects of science funding require structural changes and structural changes. For the public could ask us the question, if this did not happen, what would happen if scientific research and everyday life in Hungary were to be managed in a structure 80-90 years ago. At the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, there is an 80-year-old system of this age, which needs to be changed. It's a social need, a social expectation. You yourself referred to the western transformations. This has already been done in the West, adapted to the challenges of the age, the scientific life there, the scientific research there, and the innovation system. However, we regret that you have derailed this series of negotiations into a campaign topic and want to use the operation of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and its institutional networks for their own political purposes. I would like to state that as long as the negotiations continue, a categorical verdict, something you have formulated here, should not be made. If you're watching the press, there's a lot more color than black and white. Not only have the critics spoken in recent days, but also those who stressed the need for this, the need for transformations, from the world of science. That is why there are ongoing negotiations, as you have heard over the last two weeks, on progressing negotiations between the President of the Academy and the Minister of Innovation and Technology, and hopefully, what you can and want to present as a problem will be resolved with both sides, the scientific world in Hungary and society being satisfied with this agreement. Overall, I would like to summarise: we can say that we need performance-based funding, targeted use of resources in the scientific world as a whole. Nor can the institutions of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences exclude themselves from this intention, just to ensure that the goal that they also formulate for themselves, so that they can serve Hungarian society effectively, can be achieved. Please accept this, and in the next period we will wait for the results or partial results of the series of negotiations, which are still taking place. And in the end, you will certainly see that, to the satisfaction of everyone, the satisfaction of Hungarian scientific life and the benefit of society, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and all its institutions will continue their work. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-02-25-18	Dear Parliament, Mr János Stummer, representative of Jobbik, applied for a speech before the agenda on our historic responsibility. Remembering the victims of communism. Here you go.
u2019-02-25-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, For 30 years, this will be the title of the series of remembrances that will begin in Hungary in March in a few weeks. Thanks to you, the country will remember for two years the change of regime 30 years ago, which you and your political communities were active participants and key actors. Based on what we know so far about this series of memories and don't be mad at us, but as we know you, this two-year series of memories will slowly be taken over by you. You will now tell me what you mean, Congressman, come on. That's not the intention. But you're going to tell the story after all. The story will feed on your personal experiences, the narrative will be yours, the population of this country will learn about this period 30 years ago through your stories. This is how in the memory of the people you become the indescribable enemies of the Communists, the primary depositaries of the regime change, the system has become Hungary's strange youth in suits. Ladies and Gentlemen, All I want for you is to make sure that this goes as far as possible. As long as we continue to fight for the Lustration Act based on the Polish model, which provides full publicity, you will only attach to yourselves as much as you can to the fact that you are responsible for the fact that this country has come this far. Put on the label as much as possible that you are responsible for continuing to be here after 30 years, in this House as well as former Statue Officers, as well as former members of Group Chiefs III. They take responsibility for their omissions, they take responsibility for what they really are, they take responsibility for the fact that they have been free for 30 years, not in Hungary, but the Communists who served the dictatorship for 40 years before them, yes, among others, thanks to you! Tell Hungary what a joint and several responsibility your political community and your political community have in agreeing with the reform communists! When they tell their story, also consider the importance of certain deals and arrangements during robbery and subsequent squandering of public property, how common goods were first placed in unauthorized hands, and then how they became a waste of Western capital. Tell me more about this story. They should also explain how the western integration of this country, deprived of political and economic self-determination, has failed in this robbery privatisation, how we have become a assembly plant and emigratory country instead of a sovereign nation state during these few years. Tell us why we have failed to create a smiling and hopeful country, why after 30 years we cannot live in a Hungary that has settled its past, stand on firm feet in the present and look forward to the challenges of the new century. Look at the victims of communism and tell them what country they have built at the cost of their blood and sacrifice. Not to us, to them, confess to their omissions. Don't say it in our eyes, they're accountable to them. They owe an explanation to those who are remembered here today, in this House, together, who did not die for a country like today. patriotism. I've been sitting between these pews for almost a year, but I've heard that word a few times and I've missed it here. But if there is a day when the word "patriotism" has to be said here, then this is the day. This is what they tell us from that grave to love this country the way they loved it. This is what we are told today not only by Communism but also by all other repressive dictators and rulers. That's what he says in the Don's corner, he's frozen, he's beaten to death on the Hortobágy, he's buried in the Orgóvány and he's got me in the car. Let's love this country the way they loved it, because we have nothing else that can't be taken away from us by a feather stroke, just this: our country together. And to all who were born here, he lived for this and died for this kingdom, God grant eternal peace. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-02-25-20	On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, responds. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-02-25-21	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, After 1990, we Hungarians were confident about the future. CHAPTER XX In the century, perhaps this is not worth explaining separately, Hungary suffered the greatest blows in its thousand-year history. We can see that the bloody ideologies of the century were the driving forces of suffering: losing wars, genocides, persecutions, total dictatorships, economic collapse. [[11.40]] In '90, we had the right to think that we had finally left behind this dark chapter of history, which we all remember today with great respect, thinking about the victims. Fortunately, these horrors have not been repeated since then, but unfortunately, the ideologies that have caused the horrors are still with us. They're like Procrouses, a highwayman known for his myths, who tortured his victims in bed. If the victim was large, the robber cut off a piece of it, if it was small, the unsub lived with the means of stretching it. That's the nature of these Marxist-based ideologies that want to force us into a way of life that doesn't match us. And when it becomes clear, they turn against us in the midst of the cruelties chosen for the greater good. For a while, it may seem that these ideas seem to be lost, but today, it seems that onion ideologies are returning. Their flags have the same equality, social justice, and fighting class struggle as XX. In the century. Their real goals are no different: they want to make the world international, preferably by tomorrow. They want to abolish nations, they want to eliminate the fundamental values of Western civilization, Jewish-Christian traditions, antiquity standards and the rule of law framework. I would like to do this because they are working on building a utopia, just as their spiritual ancestors have done, we know the result. Today's communists want to control the freedom of speech with a censorship of political correctness, to profile on social media areas, so far they do not need violence organisations, because, ignoring the presumption of innocence, all those who have different views face disfellowshipping. Hungarians thinking in the nation and in the family are therefore facing new challenges. We must recognise that extreme, Marxist-based ideologies seem to be strengthening. If anyone wants to force their views on us in the name of a utopian idea, let us not be remiss to recognize that man is not coming with good intentions. And if we see it directly and I would respond explicitly to Mr President's speech, and if we can see directly that these extremists may be conspiring with each other, then there is nothing to be surprised about. It was the same before: the coalition of extremes, red shirts and brown shirts found each other, who turned together against the Hungarians. They were not interested in the opinion of Hungarians, the fate of Hungarians, the future of Hungarians. It was therefore amazing to listen to the first DK speech, when it was just about the fantastic economic performance of the country in the period 2002-2010, the tragic economic results, the financial collapse they were trying to save, then in your benches it was prehistoric and support. It's a combination of things that belong to each other. They are also about to join forces with those of XX. There are centuries of blows. It is no coincidence that the heroes who supported you earlier turned away from you. In fact, they say it's a shame what they're doing. [[Tibor Bana: What you're doing is a disgrace!]] The thing is, honourable Member, we cannot disagree with them. As far as the Government of Hungary is concerned, as long as the Government of Hungary is in place, it also guarantees that, on such occasions, we can remember the victims in a manner worthy of sacrifice, that we can do the historical testimony in a manner worthy of doing, and that we protect the freedom and security of the Hungarian people from extreme, onionistic ideologies that are growing together, belonging together, and which you represent here within the walls of the House. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-02-25-22	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Miklós Soltész, representative of KDNP, applied for a speech before the agenda:.Falusi CSOK: a new opportunity for people living in the village. Here you go.
u2019-02-25-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Before I speak of the positive message of the effects of the village CSOK, on behalf of the KDNP, allow some thoughts on the Memorial Day of the victims of communism. It was indeed sad to hear the voice of Mr János Stummer's betterman, and the decision made by András Pongráz, brother of Gergely Pongráz [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] in which he finally said that there was a serious, moral crisis in Jobbik, and he asked you, who are now yelling, that you never again dare to refer to his brother's inheritance and give out a prize named after him. [[Tibor Bana: You slipped a line! Márton Gyöngyösi: Get to the propaganda!]] I think that the speech and commemoration of President-in-Office of the Council was more worthy of today, because we are really talking about a dictatorship, a terrible time when 100 million people have died all over the world in nearly 80 years. In Hungary alone, 700,000 people were taken to Gulag camps, and nearly 200,000 did not return. The same number of German-born compatriots were expelled from the country, and they could never return until much later, when communism was over. Priests, monks, church leaders were murdered, deprived of their social activities. And whether it is the revolution of 56 or the victims of the later period, the miscarriage, the ruined lives of nationalization, it all includes this day, and that is why it is worth remembering with respect and honor, not as the leading speaker of Jobbik did. [[Martin Gyöngyösi: You didn't even think about it!]] Dear Parliament, It has certainly been a very important thing in recent weeks, and it is very important that we do it in addition to the commemorations, and we also help people who struggle in their everyday lives for this country in the sense that they live either in the countryside, in cities or in the capital. For this reason, the Hungarian village programme helps those rural people, those in need, and helps them to stay, which is desperately needed, and no one has paid attention to this in recent decades. I must say that, on the part of the Christian Democratic People's Party, we not only welcome but also support all the elements of this programme. We support whether the roads are renewed or public institutions are renewed or we help create jobs, but what is at least as important and affects families directly is nothing more than the village CSOK. The decision affecting more than 2 thousand settlements, which represents HUF 25 billion in the order of magnitude in the first step in the coming requests, is certainly very important in that the villages whose number has decreased in recent years, from which the migration was large, stop this migration and even change this process; it is important to maintain the strength that is important to everyone. However, it is also a good decision that people who want to live in a village will receive support not only for the construction of a new house, but also for the purchase, expansion and renovation of a used house. This is an important step for families with children. Dear Secretary of State, I would encourage those who run this programme, who are part of this programme, or who operate it, not to care about those who are always whining. Don't worry about, let's say, those who attack the Hungarian family support system from Sweden or other countries, including the village CSOK. So far, they have done nothing for this country, they have done nothing for the people in the villages, they are not interested in the people in the countryside, and they are not interested in strengthening the families there. It is certain that they, who are constantly opposed to everything at the time, have not so long since closed small schools, have closed post offices, railway transport has been dismantled in many places, small farmers have been destroyed, the family support system has been destroyed, and in opposition their failed election results have always been intended only for those people who do understand, understand clearly what the government's support system is, what its purpose is for families. Therefore, the Christian Democratic People's Party will also support this programme in the future. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-02-25-24	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Mr. Balázs Orbán, State Secretary, reflects. Here you go.
u2019-02-25-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The government's aim is to increase the population retention power of the villages, which is why the government decided to introduce the village family home support, the so-called village CSOK, at one of the last meetings of the Hungarian village. [[11.50]] The Hungarian village is a milestone in supporting the countryside. Its main objective is to increase the population retention power of settlements of less than 5,000 inhabitants, and therefore it is a priority to strengthen the attractiveness of small settlement life and to promote housing opportunities. The government has allocated HUF 150 billion to the Hungarian village program in 2019. The remaining HUF 75 billion will be spent on local quality of life programs, and in the following years at least HUF 25 billion will be allocated to the village CSOK. It is estimated that there will be at least one development for almost every village through 2200-2400 winning projects. The village CSOK concerns settlements below 5,000 inhabitants, where the population has decreased more than the national average compared to the figures of 1 January 2003. Of the 2887 settlements below 5,000 inhabitants, 2031 settlements were affected. The village CSOK is subject to the general rules of the CSOK, with the exception that it can be used for the construction and purchase of a new flat according to the general CSOK, which can be used for the purchase, expansion and modernisation of a flat used for a child, HUF 600 thousand for two children, HUF 2 million for three children and HUF 10 million for three children. For existing dwellings, half of these amounts can be used for upgrading. According to our plans, the bill will be submitted to Parliament in the near future, and the new construction will enter into force on 1 July, at the latest, 1 September. Thanks to rural development and family support, more and more people see the future more predictable in smaller settlements. The Hungarian village program responds to long-awaited demands, which are not formulated from behind the desk, but respond to actual problems, requests and needs of the countryside. There have been personal consultations with more than 2,000 mayors, local government experts and notaries, while the various advocacy organisations of the municipal authorities have also participated in the work process. From 150 billion forints this year, within the framework of the 50 billion forint village road fund, where roads 3, 4 and 5 can be renovated, this will allow 430 kilometers of road renovation across the country in 2019. Our plans and hopes are that if the country's economic performance allows this, the amount of the village road base will continue to rise from next year. In addition, the Government's resolution, which is publicly available to all, can be applied for 18 target areas this year. The government intends to support the construction of a service apartment, nursery development, kindergarten development, the development of kindergarten yard and kindergarten sport, the purchase of medical clinics, medical devices, the renovation of the mayor's office, urban renovations, the construction of sports parks, cemeteries, equipment development for the maintenance of public areas, the launching of a village bus programme, the renovation of local community spaces and cultural plans for strengthening national and local identity. The Hungarian village program is a support programme, which, according to our vision, covers a cycle of extraordinary opportunities, with which our aim is to make the village way of life more attractive and not to live in a village with resignation and deterioration in quality of life. We believe that living in rural areas as a result of a successful programme will not be a choice between quality of life and quality of life, but a choice between lifestyle and lifestyle. Honourable Congressman, Thank you very, very much for your support, and I would also like to ask you, all the ladies and gentlemen of this House, to follow up on the calls for proposals for the Hungarian village. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-02-25-26	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman Csaba Tóth, representative of the MSZP, has applied for a speech before the agenda:. How long will people have to endure? It's an address. Here you go.
u2019-02-25-27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, When I wake up at night to the unbearable noise, I fear that the low-flying plane will bring down my roof, and such complaints were made last December at a public forum in Zugló on the subject of airspace noise. I have already mentioned the problem of noise pressure here in Parliament, but there has been no reassuring solution to this day, even though the rest of the home and the right to a healthy environment are fundamental human rights that must be guaranteed to everyone. It was you, the representatives of the governing parties, who, for the peace of the home, stood against protests in such a way that it was added to the Fundamental Law. However, they are now doing nothing to protect the peace of the homes on the issue of much more systematic, much more burdensome airspace noise. Last December, I presented a proposal for a parliamentary decision, which I invited not only the opposition and the pro-government representatives of Budapest to sign. However, there were no government representatives who supported action against the noise of the airspace, who would have been interested in the peace of the night of the citizens of Budapest. However, the problem remains, and even more and more people are aware of, the failure of the government. Gyula Bándi, Deputy Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, spokesperson for the future generation, has recently called on the legislators to develop a system that guarantees citizens peace of mind at night. It has done so not only because of the already unbearable noise burden, but also because air traffic will increase in the future, which will only make this problem worse in the future. He explained that the number of noise complaints in his office was high, and pointed out that these complaints were well founded, as the right of citizens to a healthy environment and night rest was violated by aircraft noise. He also drew attention to the fact that, according to health research, the human body is not able to get used to the disturbing effects of noise, leading to health damage. On this basis, it can also be seen that the proposal for a decision that I have initiated is justified, timely and represents an immediate solution to some of the problems for the residents of Budapest. First of all, I would like to mention the provision concerning the total closure of airspace during the period of midnight and five o'clock in the morning, i.e. deep sleep. This provision is supported by international examples. There are several airports with large international traffic in Europe and outside Europe that work with such bans. As an example, Frankfurt airport or New York airport may be mentioned. Although the idea of banning night traffic is not yet agreed by the pro-government representatives, the Mayor of Budapest supports and urges it. István Tarlós, mayor, recently stated that it was necessary to prohibit the air traffic at Liszt Ferenc Airport at night. István Tarlós set the exact time period for the ban, which is also included in my proposal for a resolution in December. Secondly, I would like to mention the provision in the proposal for a decision imposing sanctions in the event of an unjustified violation of this prohibition by the airlines. These sanctions are necessary because it has become customary for airlines to provide a clearly unsustainable flight plan. They do this to make it look like planes arrive in Budapest sooner than they actually do, thereby circumventing certain restrictive measures. The Deputy Commissioner for Fundamental Rights drew attention to a number of things regarding the need for sanctions. On the one hand, the State has to apply sanctions which make air companies interested in the realistic planning of air traffic and, on the other hand, that, if there are no successive delays, the airlines are not interested in complying with the standards. It is therefore clearly necessary to impose sanctions on air carriers which break the rules and, in addition, to impose sanctions which constitute an economic disadvantage for them and which have sufficient deterrent powers. Of course, there may be cases where there is a need to land during the flight ban, such as emergency landing. The Parliament now has the opportunity to solve the problem of night flight airspace noise and to protect the peace of the healthy environment and home. All that needs to be done is that the pro-government representatives also support the resolution proposal I have tabled, with which the Mayor of Budapest agrees. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[12.00]]
u2019-02-25-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. Secretary of State Peter Cseresnyés, on behalf of the government, please.
u2019-02-25-29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I've had to start a speech several times by saying that it's very interesting that a member of a party criticizes an event, an event or a series of events who otherwise didn't do anything to make it a burden for people during today's period. [[Intruder from the ranks of Fidesz: Yes!]] In 2005, you were a representative of the party that privatized Ferihegy; they told Ferihegy away that the Hungarian state had no direct influence since then, no influence on the operation of this airport. [[Zsolt Gréczy: You have closed the Malév! Dr. Pál Völner: Brussels closed it!]] And it is also strange that when immigrants are constantly supported, for example, on migration in Hungary, on the basis of Europe, but at the same time when other EU legislation obliges us to do something, let us say, to designate flight routes, they forget or deliberately conceal that we must comply with or enforce European Union legislation. So it is untrue of you that, in relation to Ferihegy, you are trying to discredit the government because of the implementation of an EU aviation directive, while you are willing to accept anything coming from Brussels. I have to answer to you many times in this matter between the walls of this House, but I would like to remind you once again that the removal of the entire capital from the side effects of air transport is unthinkable, unfortunately, to say the same. But following the introduction of new take-off tracks and procedures, noise in some districts naturally decreased, while in other districts, unfortunately, it has to be said that it has increased. However, the measurements show that the noise effect is constantly measured by the organisations, the authorities whose task it is to measure that a value that would be exceeded would perhaps require some serious action has not been measured. Therefore, the noise that is at the moment on the part of the population is not reaching the level that would require any serious intervention. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, by the way, regulation is being made, except in exceptional cases during the period of deep sleep, which you mentioned, for example, that forced landing cannot be lifted from Ferihegy or landed there. However, nowhere in the capital's territory, no matter how many times it is said, so there is no mention of exceeding the limit for noise from air transport in the newly affected areas. The rules in this regard have not changed, and so far the airport has complied with them and is currently in line with them. This was done by increasing Ferihegy's passenger traffic by 7 million people compared to 2008, so in the period when you were in government, the number of take-off and landing machines was still less than when you were in control, so there was no increase in noise impact. I ask you not to be guided by political, daily party political interests on this, otherwise professional issues, because European Union legislation determines what needs to be done, what can be done, and otherwise what needs to be done if this certain noise threshold crossing is done. [[Márta Demeter: Say it in the eyes of the inhabitants! The 100,000 people say that to their eyes!]] I would like to emphasise once again that this has not happened, and until these measurements prove the need for any action, you will only deal with the writing of articles of this kind or with the speech of Parliament. You're just making it feel good, just like you normally do in other areas. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A statement from the opposition benches: Long live... applause from the pro-government representatives.]]
u2019-02-25-30	Thank you very much. Mr Lóránt László Keresztes, Head of the LMP Group, applied for a speech before the agenda on the occasion of the Memorial Day of the Victims of Communism. Here you go.
u2019-02-25-31	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Before I begin my speech before the agenda, I must respond to the response by State Secretary Balázs Orbán. Secretary of State, in my opinion, you are communists of our time. This is reflected in their actions, in their principles of power and in the policy of betrayal that we have seen from you in government since 2010, with minor interruptions, a continuous two-thirds majority. Indeed, today we remember the victims of communism, today we remember the victims of communist dictatorships. On this day in 1947, the Soviet authorities illegally took Béla Kovács, a patacsi politician, the Secretary-General of the Kiskazda Party, so on this day we remember all those whose lives have been extinguished by this murderous idea, this killing ideology, and we remember all those whose lives have been crippled by this sick idea. At the same time, in addition to memory, we must really act, and I agree with you, because the last period, the governments and elected Parliaments that have been regressing since the regime change, have a very serious debt: squinting has been chosen by the political forces that have so far been powerful and have not given the opportunity to explore the past and to know the past. They are protecting the communist system's maintainers by not giving us the opportunity to ensure nudeness; they did not give us the opportunity to learn about the events that took place during the regime change, thus giving us a glimpse of the principles of exercising power that, to this day, determine the country's leadership and the country's functioning. We also need to act because it is clear that the government that lies to the nation begins to rebuild the principle of power that they have learned from their spiritual ancestors, the leaders of the Kádár system, betraying their nation by delivering our country to foreign interests. I'll give you an example of the Paks expansion. In connection with the multibillion-dollar expansion of Paks, which is taxing generations, you have played this project for the Russians on the basis of lies. But in every sphere, the Russian influence is becoming more and more powerful. Your Prime Minister and the members of your government have more frequent visits to Moscow, as well as the power practitioners of the Kádár system. They also pursue a policy similar to their spiritual ancestors by becoming less and less tolerant of criticism and by all means taking action against those who draw attention to reality. They are now attacking those who are doing real opposition work by means of parliamentary instruments and propaganda, and who are confronting you with the harmful effects of their policies. The LMP believes that, in this situation, we must do everything we can, and therefore we will present our bill of public disclosure to Parliament for the 19th time. You have voted against this proposal 18 times since 2011. And they did so by not submitting an alternative proposal. We're asking you to face the past with a push of a button, honor the memory of the victims, and support the public. Fellow Members! We may agree that the crimes of dictatorship cannot be built on democracy. Contrary to previous years' practice, please support the proposal on public disclosure. Respect for the heroes and respect for the victims! Thank you very much.
u2019-02-25-32	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári reflects. Here you go.
u2019-02-25-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The May Other Politics proves to us every day in Hungarian public life that politics can be different every day. Yesterday, this weekend, they will hold a press conference with their various fellow European politicians, asking them for an acquittal to join forces with the Communist Party's successor party in the next elections and support each other's candidates, and then they will come to Parliament the next day and tell us how terrible the dictatorship period was and cannot be built on those who were built during the dictatorship period. Honourable Congressman, Look at yesterday's news, read your own statement, read a statement from one of the leaders of your group in the European Parliament, and then find some connection between the two. It's gonna be hard to find a connection between the two, saying different things every day. [[Márta Demeter: You have a text understanding problem, Mr. Secretary of State.]] Honourable Congressman, You, Members of the LMP, are preparing to be the party that was set up about a hundred years ago, because this year we will remember that a hundred years ago the Republic of the Council was established in Hungary 133 days ago under the leadership of the Hungarian Party of Communists; it was its many successors in Hungary, but this leads to the MSZP, with which you wish to enter into a political alliance, and with which you jointly organised countless political actions in December and January. When you talk about what you can build on and what you can't, what you can build on and what you can't build on, who you can work with and who you can't, think about this basic historical knowledge. And his comment was also quite surprising to me that everyone who builds a nuclear power plant is a communist, because you have described this in your speech. I think that many people from France to Finland would raise their eyebrows if they heard this speech from the LMP. Dear Chief of Staff, In recent years, both symbolically and in terms of benefits, we have tried to put the injustices of history in some, in part, order, eliminate, reduce. [[12.10]] We did this when we remembered the victims of the communist dictatorship in the Gulag Memorial Year or remembered it in the '56 Memorial Year. They are our true heroes, our true role models, and we have put them at the centre of attention in these commemorative years so that young people today can take them as an example. This is why, for example, the movie Eternal Winter was born, for which there was no previous example of the Gulagra drag; that is why the robot monument of Málenkij in Ferencváros was created, and that is why countless monuments, events, and scientific volumes were created in the commemorative year of 1956, which are all a sort of satisfaction to the victims of the communist dictatorship; those who are still living among us could have experienced it personally. It was also important that, in recent times, we have not only replaced the benefits that were frozen in the Gyurcsány and Bajnai cabins and paid to the victims of the communist dictatorship as a kind of pension supplement, as a pension bonus, not only did we replace the period that your future allies have taken away from these people, but we have also made bigger increases. The amount of the political rehabilitation pension supplement has been doubled in two steps, affecting about 50,500 people, the prisoners after 45, the prisoners after 56 and those who have taken leave limitation measures or sent to military work. Once again, we have opened up the need for different political rehabilitation benefits, and more people have lived with it. [[Zsolt Gréczy: What about Agent Krakus?]] We also raised the ceiling for the national post by 35 percent, and we took two positive steps for those who have been in permanent imprisonment: on the one hand, we doubled their pension supplement and, on the other hand, reduced the definition of permanent imprisonment from three years to one year, thus opening up this relatively significant pension supplement to those who have already suffered one year of imprisonment or other deprivation of liberty. We have reduced the benefits of the great leading communists receiving pension allowances during the communist period, from Béla Biszku to Rezső Ruhány, we have taken away the pension supplement obtained as a result of the awards and awards received during some communist period. We have established the National Remembrance Committee, which presents exactly what you have requested, honourable Member: the way in which power is exercised, how the Communists have exercised power. Year after year, month after month, with newer and more exploratory volumes and studies, I suggest you study their website. Clearly, in Hungary, Communism was able to take root only when Hungary was in a weakened state or was not fully sovereign. After the First World War, the Communists were able to reach power for 133 days, and then at the end of the Second World War, when the country was also weakened and foreign troops were stationed in Hungary. Communism is a disease, always attacking the sick organism. Only then could the Communists move forward in Hungary [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] when they were about to occupy a weakened Hungary with violent means. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. László Lóránt Keresztes: Will the public office be voted, Mr. Secretary of State?]]
u2019-02-25-34	Mr Sándor Burány, representative of the Dialogue, applied for a speech before the agenda: on current affairs. Here you go.
u2019-02-25-35	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Who is the greatest Hungarian is fortunately not to be guessed, and now not, not the hall, is a genetic heritage. I was thinking of human greatness, which is a whole different thing: humanly great decisions and actions become who they are. For example, István Széchenyi was undoubtedly a humanly great man, as Kossuth put it, in a civil virtue he was one of the great men. By the way, Lajos Kossuth himself belonged to this prestigious club, but he thought that there was a bigger Hungarian, who was not, by the way, a political opponent; that was how politicians and political opponents respected each other at the time. It was a truly great era of Hungarian history, and it lasted for decades. For example, István Széchenyi was in the middle of his thirties, when he offered his entire annual income with a loose move to establish a Hungarian Science Society, which became the later Hungarian Academy of Sciences. This idea was joined by others; it was a time like this: it was fashionable to sacrifice private assets for public purposes, and it was very unfashionable to steal public property for private purposes. It was a cool era: it was fashionable to be a patriot, and these fine men and women did not lack such virtues. It's a different time today. Minister Palkovics, we do not know exactly what kind of consideration he is trying to impress and who he is working hard to destroy one of the great achievements and achievements of the Reform Day, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. The style is a man, as they say, and this destruction is now taking place in a style that even stings the eyes of conservative scientists. It is enough to refer only to András Körösényi or to József Pálinkás himself, who was not only a Fidesz representative at one time, but also the president of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, a nuclear physicist. A nuclear physicist József Pálinkás, former president of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, said: "The government has begun a long time ago, it is almost blackmailing how the Hungarian Academy of Sciences hangs itself, because if not, they will hang you, as the government will hang you; so the government has said about your negotiating style. It is quite simply disgusting that the Minister of Palkovics calls for scientific achievement on the members of the Academy of Sciences, who had failed to fulfil his commitment as a researcher, did not publish, at least there was no visible sign of such publication, while the pro-government papers, the footage media, write articles one after another about the low performance of researchers of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, for example, do not publish often enough. Those who have no such visible performance are counting on the performance of Hungarian scientists. Instead of giving money for the purposes of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, on the contrary, they are drawing public money from it, while huge private assets are being created in front of us in the country; none other than to tap public money. It is not known whether the Hungarian Academy of Sciences will simply be destroyed by a Prime Minister's order, or simply by the coercion that encourages Minister Palkovics to do so, unfortunately the outcome does not matter. One of the greatest achievements of Hungary, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, will be yours, if we are not careful, to destroy it. In that sense, you are no match for this human greatness, you are not up to the spur of István Széchenyi. We know who is the largest Hungarian, and who is the smallest Hungarian on the government side, unfortunately there are plenty of candidates for this title, and no, I did not mean the hall. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-02-25-36	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Cseresnyés reflects. Here.
u2019-02-25-37	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, I will try to answer very briefly, because during today, I have responded to an issue about the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, and I have tried to reject the misleading thoughts and sentences that have been made out of the mouth of a DK representative. That's why I don't want to repeat it, because I'm guessing you were in the courtroom, in the Parliamentary Hall, and you heard my comment. Of course, it must be said that István Széchenyi is highly appreciated. We appreciate the initiative by which the Hungarian Academy of Sciences has been established, established, and a building, an institution has been established, where, over the past decades, there has been a constant scientific effort. It has brought many, many glory to our people, our nation, Hungary as a result of the work done there, with the help of academics and as a result of their work. But I must reject your various suspicions about, among other things, Minister Palkovic's work. The reason why I do not quote in detail the thoughts that are formulated in my mind is because if you had read the last statement by the President of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences about one of your suggestions, you would know that there is an answer to that too. You're just trying to suggest something wrong here. [[12.20]] You, for example, are asking Minister Palkovic to speak to a former Minister who, as a member of his government, wanted to make certain institutions of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences equal to the land. I am asking you, if possible, as a rhetorical question, whether you applauded Mr János Kóka, Minister of Economic Affairs in 2006, when he said that those areas of the MTA that do not directly serve competitiveness should be made equal to the earth. You applauded this, and you agreed at the time as a member of the MSZP faction, and now you are asking for the initiative, the intention to promote the better functioning of the Hungarian scientific life, the background institutions? I say you should be ashamed of yourself, Congressman. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-25-38	Congressman Csaba Hende, the representative of Fidesz, has applied for a speech before the agenda: "Our current affairs." Here you go.
u2019-02-25-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Immigration is at stake in the European Parliament elections. We are talking about the future of Europe, and people have a right to know what Brussels is up to. [[Interview from Jobbik's ranks: Soros!]] The current pro-immigration majority in Brussels wants to increase immigration, which would mean that Europe will not remain Europeans. Brussels gives no real help to the nation states [[Zsolt Gréczy: Campaign.]] for border protection, but for programmes to bring migrants into the European Union in a legally regulated manner. EU leaders, such as President Jean-Claude Juncker, continue to talk about the need to allow legal migration to Europe. The European Parliament has also taken a number of migration-enhancing decisions, with the aim of giving billions of forints to NGOs supporting immigration, for example. [[Constant intervention from the opposition.]] The plans are therefore on Brussels' table, with which more migrants are to be brought in. The next five-year EU cycle is characterised by the failure to keep migrants outside and the failure to keep the United Kingdom in. The Brussels body must not pass on responsibility to anyone else for what has happened in Europe. Dear Parliament, Brussels bureaucracy wants to deny the pro-immigration plans, but previous decisions and resolutions of the European Parliament and of the European Commission have brought them down. These plans all point in the same direction: they would increase immigration to Europe. This is a fundamental threat to Hungary's security, and that is why the government has decided to provide extensive information. The proposals and decisions made by the European Commission and the European Parliament on immigration are almost entirely in line with what György Soros proposed in its resolutions published in several details. It is known that Soros wants to bring a million immigrants to Europe every year. We ask the European Commission to publish the minutes of George Soros' meetings with the Commissioners in Brussels and to provide information on the decisions taken in these discussions. In spite of their attempts to deny it, the European Parliament voted for the resettlement quota in November 2017. They wanted and want a permanent and mandatory distribution, and if someone doesn't participate, they want to impose penalties, they don't withdraw, they want to put it into effect. The submission to this effect is also published on the European Parliament's website. The European Parliament voted on this on 11 December last year and called on the European Commission to draw up the programme by March this year, because it is so urgent. This proposal is put in a humanitarian robe, but the point is the same: the new procedure would provide a blank invitation to millions of immigrants. With regard to migrant cards and credit cards, I have to say, according to a recent statement, 63,000 immigrants received a financial reference to such cards only in January this year, and this programme is also funded by the European Commission. On 17 January this year, the European Parliament decided to significantly increase the support of political activist groups and EUR 1.8 billion, or HUF 570 billion, to HUF 570 billion! they'd pay them an appropriate amount. Based on experience, such resources are allocated to organisations that support immigration and attack governments protecting national sovereignty and national powers. To quote a left-wing classic, of this 570 billion forints, oh, you can buy many, oh, how many respirators you can buy. Dear Parliament, In May 2018, the European Commission also urged that cohesion policy be redesigned in such a way as to give more money to the countries receiving immigrants than before, while those rejecting migration less. The Brussels Commission also intends to reform border protection rights and strengthen Frontex. Europe, however, is unable to establish a border defence force that would be able to defend its borders throughout its entire length, i.e. it remains necessary to assume responsibility in the Member States. However, despite Hungary's request, and the European Union has repeatedly promised to reimburse at least half of its border protection costs, we have not received a single penny. Dear Parliament, The stakes of the European Parliament elections in May are therefore the need to stop the pro-immigration forces led by Frans Timmermans. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-25-40	Thank you very much. State Secretary Csaba Dömötör, on behalf of the government, please.
u2019-02-25-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, In another way, I would like to approach the same subject. Over the last few days, there has been a strong political artillery attack on family protection, and this attack has come primarily from groups who see Europe's future in migration. As to examples, an Oxford gerontologist criticized the Hungarian steps because he said that there were enough children born in Africa. In the past, he argued that it is also good to have a low willingness to have children because all unborn children represent 58 tonnes less carbon dioxide emissions. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] Others also added that robots have the future anyway. So self-destruction, self-rejection policy is raging, which is not only insensitive to the future of Hungarians, but also towards the future of Europe. We're hearing fancy opinions at home, too. For example, according to Ákos Hadházy, the current family policy steps refer to Germany in Hitler, and if we listen to these comments, we can easily conclude that the self-rejection culture, self-destruction policy, also has serious bridge posts in the country, and it is fortunate that it is not within the government. Note at this point that this policy has no support in Hungary, in the national consultation the Hungarians clearly said that they do not want migration, but targeted support for families raising children. In addition to the family protection activity, this is why the government announced the village CSOK program a few days ago, which will help hundreds of thousands of people living in small towns to buy or renovate their homes. Dear House, Last week there was a great deal of international movement on the government's information action, where the word "movement" may not really cover the intensity of the attacks. The attempt to deny it, to completely deny the plans to encourage immigration, is remarkable and strange. On that basis, you could easily deny that the Earth is round. However, the reality is on our side, the facts are in agreement with us, because even though they deny it, the European Parliament voted in November 2017 for a compulsory, unqualified resettlement quota. Even though they deny that the migrant card scheme is already in operation, 60,000 immigrants received money in January this year. Despite their denial, the European Parliament also voted in favour of the migrant visa and called on the European Commission to draw up the details by spring this year. Despite denying it, more money has been voted for political activist groups, while there is also a proposal in black and white that countries that oppose immigration should be given less support. And anyone who disputes statements on border protection, we recommend that you pay attention to the two speeches made by Chancellor Merkel. Both argued that strengthening the Frontex agency would in fact mean removing border protection rights from the Member States. [[12.30]] So even though they deny it, the voting protocols, the written statements and the statements speak for themselves, everyone can check them. I would like to refer to one more thing here in this House and to react. The top candidate on the left, Mr. Frans Timmermans, again joined Hungary with two feet this weekend. Among other things, he said that there is no sight of Europe from Hungary. We would have comments which, if we were to say, would be easily blushed, but we would keep to ourselves, but instead we would say that we think that those who want to blow the wind into the sails of Europe and open society do not see the interests of Europe, and that they would make Europe completely vulnerable by opening its gates to large masses of people; all of this, without having asked the opinion of European citizens about it at all before. We do not ask for the colonial tone, the elitist arrogance, especially from a man whose party has fallen under 10 percent support back home. Hungary has always been a part of Europe, and we have defended Europe too many times to tolerate such insults. On the Memorial Day of Communism, on the Memorial Day of Communism, we would also like to make it clear that we have stood up for ourselves in the most difficult times and that we do not need anyone's authentic seal to know what it means to be European and to defend European values. So, if your left-wing fellow Members meet their own top candidate next time, I suggest they give him this message. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-02-25-42	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Mr Zsolt Becsó, Member of the Council, Mr Fidesz; János Stummer, Mr Jobbik; Mr Péter Hoppál, Mr Fidesz; Mr Csaba Nagy, Mr Fidesz; and Mr Dániel Kárpát Z, Mr Jobbik. Dear Parliament, Now, at 12:32 p.m., we will begin the discussion of questions and immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Congressman Lajos Rig, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources:, There are billions more inciting posters, and people can't be cured. Is that okay? It's an address. Here you go.
u2019-02-25-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, As I'm sure you know, over the last few weeks, the news has been about the SMA patients. SMA disease is a group of so-called most common but rare diseases. This is a genetic disease, which has unfortunately not been cured until now, nor has therapy been known, and then in December 2016 a major breakthrough came: in the United States of America, a new medicine called Spinraza was introduced, which has proved to be effective at each age and every type of SMA disease. As of June 2017, this medicine also became available in the European Union, but we know that there are several types of funding methods in several Member States of the Union. There are 17 Member States that deliver this medicine free of charge for each type of medicine for each age group, and 11 He's between countries now, hold on tight. Romania, too. It is a very expensive medicine, a dose of HUF 138 million, but Romania can do so by giving it to every citizen, every citizen suffering from this disease, free of charge and free of charge. I think that this would also be the main purpose of our Hungarian countrymen's healing, and I think that we would be able to endure a few posters less along the roads, and the transfer of nearly HUF 4 billion would solve the problem in which SMA patients suffer in Hungary today. 38 patients are currently being treated in Hungary, but according to data available tomorrow, there are 30 patients waiting for treatment. Of the 30 patients, 20 children and 10 adults. I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether patients who have not received treatment and each SMA patient can expect free treatment and treatment. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-02-25-44	Thank you very much. Secretary of State of Rétvár, please.
u2019-02-25-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think you're aware of a lot of things, because in recent days, you've had a number of written answers about what the government has done to give children with this disease and other rare diseases, adults alike, access to the therapy they need, even if these are extremely expensive. To this end, we have increased by two and a half times since 2010 the budgetary framework within the Health Insurance Fund at the expense of which such very expensive interventions can be carried out. I think it is very important that we now have two and a half times as much opportunity to support families in such difficult situations, because this is an extremely difficult life situation that is hard on the whole family. As you mentioned, 38 patients have already been treated relatively quickly, which has meant HUF 1.2 billion so far if we started treating these 38 people. The fact that you really want political benefit from this case, or that you want to help these people, it can be clear that you do not usually speak out to them in such a way as to want more, but you always play stadiums or punters, or you campaign posters, and that's how you lead this question. You could talk to each other calmly and calmly about this issue, because every time you use this medicine, it's a medical team, a medical team. You are aware that the European Medicines Authority has obliged the manufacturer to carry out additional clinical trials, since there is not enough study to help each age group with some course of the disease. This medicine is not a medicine that can reverse the process, but it is a medicine that can slow down or stop it, based on studies so far. Despite this, the government decided that if a medical committee decided that this cure could personally help the patient with this disease, we would spend 175 million forints a year to help and try to slow down and stop the course of the disease. Who gets it, of course. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It is not ministries or politicians who should be told, but in any case, these doctors who are the most likely to improve their processes. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-02-25-46	Dear Parliament, MEPs Zsolt Molnár and Lajos Korózs, representatives of the MSZP, want to ask the Minister responsible for innovation and technology: It's called the 2nd. Congressman Korós, please.
u2019-02-25-47	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, My fellow Member, Zsolt Molnár, asked the wallet a number of weeks ago about road 81, because there are terrible conditions and there have been fatal accidents on this side of the road since the last question was said. In his reply, the Secretary of State said that there was really no chance of any serious interference on this road until 2022, it is true that we must say: on the road between the Mór and the county border, this is an 8-9 kilometer section of the road, the renovations have taken place. At the same time, I would like to draw your attention to this House and to the Secretary of State, but you obviously know that there may be new problems with the reconstruction of the M1, as a significant part of motor vehicle traffic will be shifted to this section of the road. Local people are primarily concerned about the expansion of truck traffic. As a result, it is not difficult to draw the consistency that traffic has increased, the risk of accidents has increased, and we believe that such symptomatic treatments cannot solve these problems. That is why I am asking the Secretary of State when the four-track extension of route 81 is planned, and I am asking when the renewal of route 8126 is due. Thank you very much. I look forward to your reply.
u2019-02-25-48	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Peter Cseresnyés, here you go.
u2019-02-25-49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I am convinced that the interest of citizens is the essence and meaning of the parliamentary work. It is therefore particularly sad that opposition representatives use their speeches to slide and misinformed, whether it be domestic developments or plans for migration in Brussels instead of real representation. In my previous reply, there was no information from which anyone could reasonably conclude that there would be no road development in the region by 2022. [[12.40]] You are well aware that progress in transport development projects will be reviewed by the government on a quarterly basis and that the list and timetable may be modified. The questioner is also different from the facts when he tries to draw from my previous answer the deterioration of road 81 road safety indicators. In preparation for the expansion of the M1 motorway, we have also implemented and implemented the necessary road safety improvements for road 81. In most cases, it can even be said that they almost always deliver the results they expect. It is not worth worrying about the 8126 route, as the investment will take place after the successful completion of the public procurement procedures. Honourable Congressman, The positive effects of the government's transport development measures are seen by citizens in all parts of the country. I do not envy you and your fellow opposition representatives trying to cover up and base on such or similar experiments on the development set and series of developments that have been made in the country in recent years, even in terms of road development. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-02-25-50	Dear Parliament, Congressman Imre László, a representative of DK, would you like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question:. István Tiborcz in vampire mode? It's an address. Here you go.
u2019-02-25-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Péter Szijjártó told the Swedish Government that we are spending money on families and not on migrants. Of course, he forgot to add that only certain families, such as István Tiborcz. The collection and trade of plasma has been a multibillion-dollar business, and this has also lit light in the brain of the Prime Minister's son-in-law, which is certainly a welcome development after the fact that with the public lighting provided by Elios, it has been able to create only darkness and semi-darkness in the affected dozens of settlements. Two years ago, Plasma Expert Kft., linked to Tiborcz, appeared in the collection of plasma collection companies. It is prohibited to pay donors for plasma and blood donation under the Health Act, but their related costs can be reimbursed. Until Tiborcz's entry into the market, donors received 8-10 thousand forints for blood donation, but at that time the EMMI did not maximize the amount to be paid in the amount of 3,500 forints. The new phenomenon that has occurred since more and more young people who have been grumpy have come to my colleagues in a depraved state. They are not drug users, but young people who are mostly studying, who add plasma to their low incomes. By reducing the fee, they are forced to give plasma two to three times more times than before in order to make a living. Thus, the government spends money on the Tiborcz family, among others, at the cost of harming the poor young people. I ask the Secretary of State: why has the amount of compensation for blood and plasma donation been reduced? Are the data related to the transfer being combed together? And why is István Tiborcz's profits more important than the health of Hungarians in Europe? Thank you. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2019-02-25-52	Secretary of State of Rétvár, here you go.
u2019-02-25-53	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Your speech was based on untrue funds, which is why you have drawn a wrong conclusion, and I believe that you have spoken to an ex-hospital director at a level that is not necessarily worthy of him. In the case of the claim that you have come to believe that these companies, which the press has connected with István Tiborcz, have anything to do with the gentleman mentioned, have been brought into court proceedings, court proceedings have been won by the companies, and everyone has been told that he has falsely stated what you have said here in Parliament three times. You can repeat it here in Parliament, but there are court judgments that what you say is not real. [[It's Bence of Turdai's intervention.]] It seems to me that DK continues to do so, it doesn't matter that the court says that it's untrue that you're repeating it because you think it's going to make it real. [[Dr. László György Lukács: You do the same thing! Tamás Pintér: What about press trials?]] On the other hand, as opposed to your pre-2010 visitation fee, hospital-stop, hospital-per diem attitude, we follow the principle that it is always in the best interests of patients and that it cannot be a health business, profit cannot be more important than healing patients. Therefore, what is important in Hungary has been a true and important principle for generations is that blood donation, whether it is classic blood donation or blood plasma, must always be voluntary and free of any coercion or financial incentive. This does not, of course, mean that reimbursement cannot be paid for this period. Hungarian legislation is like in Austria or the Czech Republic; interestingly, you did not criticize those regulations. [[Péter Ungár's intervention.]] Our goal was that those who had given blood before should not be fully transferred to plasma donation, and therefore the blood supply service should not lack blood, but, in addition to plasma donation, we also required the obligation to donate blood, precisely so that the state's blood supply, the possibility of healing all patients, would not be impaired. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-02-25-54	Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Márta Demeter, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance: "Does the government plan in the near future to finally represent the interests of the Hungarian people instead of their multinationals? It's an address. Here you go.
u2019-02-25-55	Thank you. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. You are fond of referring to the nation and to the Hungarian families, and all we have heard from you for many years is that Hungary is the first for you. Unfortunately, the facts show otherwise. Last year, you made a record with the financial support granted to multinational companies. Last year, more than 86 billion forints were allocated to multinational companies with individual government decisions, and in previous years 71 billion and 64 billion forints were used for similar purposes. Since 2010, the government's generosity towards multinationals has led to the cost of HUF 346 billion to Hungarian taxpayers. They also give these companies hundreds of billions of HUF tax breaks, which Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises cannot even dream of. You have brought together a poor and vulnerable economy. Based on the large-scale investments, foreign companies carry 16 times as much investment as Hungarian companies, while Hungarian companies suffer from capital shortages. Foreign-owned companies are growing, and the domestics are constantly falling apart from them. I ask you not to come with the ratings, or with their support, how much new jobs have been created, because they have a very bad balance, and in eight years, only 45 thousand new jobs have been created at astronomical prices, since one job cost Hungarians HUF 11 million. Where's the million jobs? The competitiveness of the Hungarian economy has not improved at all, and in the Parliament, by voting in favour of the outrageous slave law, they have guaranteed their unconditional loyalty to foreign large investors, multinational corporations. Hungarian workers are being provided to these companies. The wage burden continued to increase and the civil servant's salary has not been increased for ten years. The government abandoned the Hungarian workers. After all, although we are not very optimistic about their response, I will ask Mr. Secretary of State whether the government is planning to finally consider the interests of the Hungarian people instead of their multinationals in the future.
u2019-02-25-56	By answering the question, the Prime Minister appointed Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade Péter Szijjártó, who is competent according to the subject. Tamás Menczer, State Secretary, will answer the question at the request of the Minister. Here you go.
u2019-02-25-57	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Before we get to the investments, allow me to say that I understand from your speech that you want to take over the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. I'm not surprised to see you're doing well with the Ministry of Defense. [[Noise from the benches of LMP and DK. Márta Demeter: What? Gergely Harvesto: Very weak! András Tállai: Very true!]] Let me also say that we know that you are neither worried about the employees nor about anyone, because your former party, the MSZP, has destroyed this country, and your current party is working closely with your former party. [[Márta Demeter: Talk about the people, Mr. Secretary.]] As far as investments are concerned, because of course you're looking for an excuse to attack this government. [[Noise from the benches of LMP and DK. Gergely Harvester's intervention.]] But the excuse is nonsense, I'd like to tell you about the investments... Although he told me what not to talk about, what to talk about, it's a strange genre that you're trying to set boundaries, but I'm trying to push these boundaries. [[12.50]] Last year, investments brought 17 thousand jobs to this country, and since 2014 71 800 jobs have been created thanks to investments. Nor is it true that there are no Hungarian investments. In terms of last year, the German group had 28 projects in the first place, and in the second place, US and Hungarian investors had 15-15 investments. It's not even true that there's gonna be a assembly plant here. I would like to inform you that last year, the average wage was HUF 425 thousand, which is 40 percent higher than the average price of investments in 2017. It is clear that you are attacking these investments. Although these investments are subject to a killing competition at regional level, but also beyond the region, they are still being attacked. I understand that the communist heritage and the communist tradition are fading, but I am asking you not to attack these investments. I would like to pay tribute to the fact that political association such as the Hungarian opposition has not been seen throughout Europe. Investments are welcomed everywhere. Don't take away the chance of the Hungarian people! Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-25-58	Dear Parliament, Péter Ágh, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question: It's an address. Here you go.
u2019-02-25-59	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Since 2010, the government has been paying attention to developing the municipalities of the country taking into account the available resources. In this context, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán initiated the programme "Modern Cities" which launched major investments in cities with county rights. By doing so, it shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 21 (3). The plans and dreams of those living there can be realized in a century's way. Following this, the launch of the Hungarian village program is a new step. With the coordination of Commissioner Alpár Gyopáros, a number of programmes have been developed that can strengthen small settlements. There is a great need for this, as there is a need for further and further steps to be taken to be effective in order to maintain the strength of the villages. Under socialist governments, the country's Hungary has been put at a disadvantage. Let us not forget that the Orbán government had to replace the settlements from the debt trap. Dear Secretary of State, Over the past few years, with the support of the government, we've been on the road to construction. With the programme that is now under way, the Hungarian budget provides such resources to these municipalities, which has not been experienced since the change of regime. Of the 77 settlements of my constituency, North Vas county, 74 are affected, since it is a village or small town of less than 5 thousand people. I would also like to pay my respects to the people who live there. With their work, their love for their home, they do much for their place of residence. I trust that the Hungarian village program can also provide them with new opportunities. Iron County is a small village, which is why I am personally committed to this government initiative. On the basis of the above, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State what the Hungarian village programme, which is about to start, can mean for the country and my constituency, North Vas County. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-25-60	Thank you very much. Secretary Balázs Orbán, please.
u2019-02-25-61	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, There is also a consensus between the two of us that, unlike the Balliberal governments, which have always taken money and opportunity from the countryside, the civilian government strengthens the countryside. It aims to provide more work, more livelihoods and a more predictable future for people living in rural areas and especially for young people in rural areas. We have some catching up to do, because for previous Balliberal governments, the countryside, Hungarian agriculture and the Hungarian village were never worth it. While socialist governments have made people unemployed, civil government has replaced aid, unemployment has fallen from 12 percent to 3 percent, we can talk about a two-figure real wage increase, and there have not been as many jobs as today in 27 years. And the most disadvantaged people also benefit from it, instead of receiving aid, they make a living on income. We believe that the Hungarian village programme is also a milestone in supporting the countryside. Our most important objective, as you said, is to increase the population retention power of settlements of less than 5,000 people. In 2019, the government spends HUF 150 billion on this programme, but obviously the long-term effects of the programme will be felt if this is maintained as a cycle-wide programme in the history of Hungarian rural development. 2031 of the 2887 settlements below 5 thousand are affected, both in indoor and outskirts, in the sources for the renovation of roads 3, 4, 5 and in the context of both the Hungarian village programme and the village CSOK. We've identified 18 target areas. The first calls for proposals will be published this week. Our aim is to ensure that at least 2 thousand settlements feel the beneficial effects of the Hungarian village programme on their own skin again this year. Thank you very much for your support, and please keep an eye on the proposals that are coming. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-25-62	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Member Tamás Pintér, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister responsible for innovation and technology: after the public money, the lives of Hungarians do not matter? It's an address. Here you go.
u2019-02-25-63	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Everyone knows that the development of public lighting in the cities of Hungary in recent years has been scandalously and under-achieved in all quality requirements. Everyone also knows that during the construction and renovation of public lighting in the cities of the country, there was nothing other than the theft of public funds through buddies and stooges. Everyone knows this, perhaps the only exception to this is Péter Polt, the Attorney General, who is throwing back the charges in this regard. The modernization of public lighting in Dunaújváros has also become a veterinary horse for corruption and poor quality work. The fact that the local government knew that the level of lighting did not reach the desired quality and thus creates dangerous conditions in the city, but still does not do anything to restore the original state. And the saddest part is that now not only people's public wealth is being stolen in such improvements, but more lives have been claimed by sloppy and corrupt modernization. In our city, there have been several accidents in recent years due to the darkness where pedestrians crossing the street were run over by motorists. And this is not necessarily because of the fault of the driver driving the car, nor because of the regular pedestrian running on the crosswalk, but simply because of the blind darkness they could not pay proper attention to each other. You have acknowledged their crime when you have not submitted these accounts to the Union to avoid EU accountability, but we can also say that you have not only stolen the public money of Hungarians during your public lighting developments, but your unrated investments are already demanding lives. That is why I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State whether, now that they have admitted their guilt, they are planning to improve public lighting in cities where life-threatening conditions prevail due to scandalous executions. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-02-25-64	State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés will answer the question. Here.
u2019-02-25-65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to reject the suggestion expressed in your question and to begin with the answer to the question. In order to achieve the domestic emission reduction and energy saving targets, the government announced the 2013 call for the environmental and energy operational programme on which, among other things, the municipality of Dunaújváros received support for the modernisation of local public lighting. As you know, the call for proposals primarily raised energy saving and emission reduction requirements for applicants. The beneficiaries themselves could choose which technology to use to meet these requirements. The project in Dunaújváros is closed in accordance with the tender conditions and is currently in a maintenance period. The completed municipal investment was also verified by the Ministry of National Development as managing authority through an on-the-spot check and through documents and declarations provided to the beneficiary and concluded that the investment was carried out in accordance with the conditions of the tender. During the period of the EU's maintenance obligation, between 26 January 2016 and 25 January 2021, monitoring of the indicators undertaken for the investment will be carried out through project maintenance reports and on-the-spot checks. In the event that the indicators undertaken during the maintenance period are not met in accordance with the requirements laid down in the legislation, the managing authority will, of course, take the necessary measures, as it has already done. In view of this, I will also ask the following questions in this matter, if you would like to address us with further questions. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.00]]
u2019-02-25-66	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question:. Who complains is flying? Or what happened at the Visegrád nursing home? It's an address. Here you go.
u2019-02-25-67	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, A shocking event took place a few weeks ago in a Visegrád nursing home where three residents were simply expelled from the institution. We have learned all this from a communication from the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. This Communication alone defines what has happened. There is only one sentence, and I would like to quote it precisely:, Violent terminations in the elderly home after the Ombudsman's visit on the premises. It's about the Golden Age Foundation of Visegrád's Older People's Home. Here, please, no more has happened, but in any case, the three elderly people have been given up their supply contracts on the grounds that, according to the home, they have made false statements to the ombudsman's staff, thus endangering the existence of the home and the functioning of the home.I would like to ask you whether you are aware of how the heads of the institution have learned about what they said to the ombudsman's staff in connection with the Ombudsman's inquiry, who gave an interview. Because, to my knowledge, these are anonymous and inaccessible information. In addition, I found out from this communication, which the Ombudsman issued, that the report had not yet been drawn up, and yet such sanctions have been imposed on these elderly people. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether they are aware of the fate of these three elderly people and those affected, where and how they have been provided, and whether the government office, the Directorate-General for Social Affairs and Child Protection, and possibly the Ministry, are taking any action in this matter. Thank you, I am honored to hear your reply.
u2019-02-25-68	I salute my fellow Members. Thank you, Mr Korózs, for your question, and I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2019-02-25-69	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In his speech, the honourable Member did not mention an important circumstance that it was not a public institution, but a private institution, an organisation called the Golden Age Foundation Home for Elders. Obviously, it's in the operation of a foundation, in the maintenance of it. So the state doesn't exercise direct control, responsibility, like a public institution, in the case of a public institution. That's why you can't be the owner of this case. At the same time, the Pest County Government Office has options and has launched the investigation that must be carried out in this case. But I must stress that this is a private institution. They would remind you of your period, of the treatment of the elderly at the time, or of the treatment of pensioners. After 2008, you managed to reduce the main source of income of pensioners, their pensions, by 8 percent in the period of the Gyurcsány government, and then by 6.4 percent in the period of Bajnai Gordon. Your name is linked to the socialist governments, which reduced the standard of one grooming in general institutions by HUF 30,000 a year; in the priority institutions, increased care was reduced by HUF 100,000 in their residential institutions. Then somehow you weren't worried about the people who were in different nursing homes, when it could really have been done to make their care as secure as possible. And I don't know if it's necessary or not that they're about to join forces with that party, Jobbik, who's about to have another scandal every year, the party president now or earlier, or on Facebook or anywhere, he's making insults to the elderly. Honourable Congressman, We have been trying to increase the security of social institutions over the past period, and we have implemented wage-raising programmes. Unfortunately, in your case, the opposite can be reported. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-02-25-70	Dear Parliament, Congressman László Varju, representative of DK, would you like to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Orbán has fooled home care workers again? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-02-25-71	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I wanted to start by saying that what you have done on this subject over the last year could actually be welcome, but unfortunately, I cannot begin with that. Over the past few days, I have been repeatedly sought and found concerned with the fact that what you have published is indeed intended to create a division between home care providers, their children's educators and non-children's educators. That's why you divide and conquer! The principle that you are running in this regard is unacceptable. Of course, I could also say that you know my text from before, those political approaches, but instead I am telling you to think about what you are doing here. In my hand, you are well aware of the letter of those affected, which is about how much the regulation they have created is detrimental to them. Therefore, I think that if you have refused to solve the care fee in a uniform way to raise the minimum wage, then you must change the situation that you spend 125 billion forints instead of 50 billion forints in the Taora. Find the necessary resources for the affected. There is no need for a replacement act. I see the invitation to tender published, and in a way that can be applied for HUF 90 million, I think it is a very, very low amount, and I do not want to qualify it. Therefore, the question is when, instead of a national pseudo-consultation costing billions, they will do something for home care workers. Are you willing to have a real consultation with the representatives of the stakeholders? Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2019-02-25-72	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2019-02-25-73	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I do not know where this shirt was for you on 12 December, honourable Member. Because here in Parliament, we have decided to increase care fees, to introduce children's home care fees. But when the decision was made, you didn't come in with this shirt, you came in with a whistle and a siren and tried to stop the meeting from starting at all, with a total increase of approximately HUF 15 billion to support those who received the care fee this year. Honourable Congressman, When it came to what should be here on December 12th, on the day when we raised the care fee by 15 percent from January 1st this year, next year, then by another 5-5 percent, so we introduced a total of 30 percent or we introduced the weed, which as a home care fee is already worth HUF 100,000, and in the years to come and 2022 will rise to the minimum wage level at that time, here was the proposal on Parliament's table, did you say at the faction meeting that we should not prevent this vote? Did you wear this T-shirt at the faction meeting at DK to support home care? Even then, he threw himself on the ground. [[Laszlo Varju: Na, na!]] To object to the decision of your fellow factions, that this is inhumane after all? If we could finally raise the care fee, could the opposition finally do something for home care workers, on the other hand, you choose the strategy, the tactics to try to prevent government representatives from being physically forced to raise the home care fee? [[Zsolt Gréczy: Who laid a hand on whom?]] And then you speak up here, and after the government gives your child 2.7 times more money to home caregivers, but we still can't, of course, compensate for the human activity, the compassion they do at home in their daily work, and then you have such a speech? While they are affected, the National Association of Organisations of Disabled People says: [[The president's ringing the bell.]] That this isn't another opportunity to overthrow the government, that you choose a different field, that no one will become a warrior opposition if you shout out loud, smile into the camera with an empathetic face, talk unthinkable and tease the crowd? ! Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-02-25-74	Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of the Interior a question, "What about the public workers?" It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2019-02-25-75	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Public employment aims to reduce long-term unemployment. Unfortunately, this objective has been achieved only partially in recent years, since the number of people working in public employment has decreased, but others have not been able to find employment in the labour market. [[13.10]] Most of those who remain cannot be traced back to the labour market without specific assistance or only periodically. This may be due to a number of causes, such as mental state, other health impairment, more severe persistent illness, unskilled or possibly illiteracy. Well, it's coming up with some of them when they retire. Many small settlements do not benefit workers from transport-geographical conditions. If we really want as many long-term unemployed as possible in the labour market, we need comprehensive assistance. There have been different programmes before, but in many cases they have not reached their real target audience. Yet, without help, many of these people will not be able to permanently escape public work, long - term unemployment, and deep poverty. This year, the aid intensity of the public work programme seems to be changing, which means that the previous 100 percent wage and contribution support seems to have fallen to 90-80 and up to 50 percent, since different subsidies can be used in relation to tax power. This means that for a given small settlement for 12 months, 5 employees could cost up to HUF 1 million. Unfortunately, it can also be said that the performance of many of the public workers is significantly below what is expected. But what the mayor should do, because in a small settlement, this may be the only possibility for many people. My question is whether this idea of aid intensity will remain or whether they want to introduce a comprehensive programme that will help these people return to the labour market. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2019-02-25-76	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás.
u2019-02-25-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The aim of public employment was clear when the system of public employment was set up, when the current system of public employment was introduced, namely that all people who are physically and mentally capable of participating in community work in order to sustain their lives and maintain their families should actively contribute to the common burden of society, and those people in public employment should be helped to do so. Obviously, the main objective of public employment is to make it temporary for people who are involved in public employment to work on a regular basis, to be in the community, to be given the opportunity and opportunity to participate in training, to be able to find employment in public employment, or to take part in seasonal work, and to fit into all forms of market employment and job opportunities. Moreover, the aid intensity of public employment programmes is regulated only by the Government Decree, with a maximum ceiling of 100 per cent of this programme. At the same time, the district or metropolitan district offices acting as the public employment body have already decided on the actual aid, and the same system has survived and is in the process. Therefore, district offices can decide on the local characteristics of labour demand, supply, employment characteristics in the region, unemployment indicators, cooperation between employers and the Office. This system will continue to remain unchanged. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-25-78	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Győző Vinnai, representative of Fidesz, would you like to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade a question as to the confidence of investors following the upgrading of Standard and Poor? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-02-25-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, January news is that the German company Eissmann is investing a little over two billion dollars in Nyíregyháza, thereby expanding its current factory by 7700 square meters. Thanks to the investment, to which the Hungarian State grants nearly 560 million, 140 additional jobs will be created in addition to the current 700 employees. The factory in Nyíregyháza since 1977 was the first production centre of the German company, built outside Germany. Announcements like this make a major contribution to further strengthening the Hungarian industry, to which the automotive industry has been giving its backbone for several years, and to creating high value-added jobs. However, the fact that such investments create valuable jobs is particularly important to highlight the message that international investors are sending outwards. It is worth choosing Hungary as an investment destination, as economic policy is predictable here, political stability exists, and investors already present are satisfied with both the Hungarian workforce and the infrastructure. Before 2010, the Hungarian economy was characterised by excessive debt. Contrary to the proposal of the Brussels bureaucracy, Hungary has chosen a different path, thanks to the well-thought-out economic policy, international investors consider our country to be an appropriate investment destination, which will be further strengthened in the future by the news that one of the major international credit rating agencies, Standard and Poor, has improved the Hungarian credit classification with one degree. For the record, other credit rating agencies have also improved it. Dear Secretary of State, Here's the question. Since consistency seems to have resulted, the Hungarian economy is expanding well above the EU average. However, is it expected that investors' confidence in Hungary will really increase with regard to Standard and Poor's upgrading? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-25-80	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Tamás Menczer, Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs.
u2019-02-25-81	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, as Minister for Finance Varga said at the beginning of the day, when the downgrades took place, we already said that the ratings would come. Although we know, we can say among ourselves that we are not the favourite of credit rating agencies, but in case of political bias, the results of the Hungarian economy cannot be taken away. I would like to give you some figures on the external economic side for last year and the year before last, because from time to time we can get the best data. In 2017, 96 investments were made through our investment promotion agency, 96 of which amounted to EUR 3.5 billion and more than 17 thousand new jobs were agreed. Last year, 98 investments were decided, worth EUR 4.3 billion, and a little over 17 thousand jobs were again agreed. It is also important to say that it is now increasingly visible that not only the production capacity is brought here by investors, but also the R &amp; D capacity, the activities of the innovation service provider. This means that last year we were able to book 29 projects in the areas of service centres, infocommunications and research and development, and this represents a 60 percent increase compared to 2017. It is very important, I would like to say again that the average wage for investments last year was HUF 425,000, which is a 40% increase compared to 2017. This shows that these investments also help all Hungarians to move forward from time to time. As far as exports are concerned, there are only two sentences here: although we are 88th in the world ranking for the population, we are 34th among the most exporting countries, 20th in the automotive industry, 19th in pharmaceutical exports and 15th in cereals. So we're trying to move forward on this foreign course. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-25-82	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ander Balázs, a representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Strike in public education as well? Or, how much longer do you think you're gonna take a breather and humiliate your teachers? It's an address. Congressman Ander Balázs has the floor.
u2019-02-25-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian society was fatally split in two. It's part of the truth that it's obviously not the sin of the last nine years. The terrible thing, however, is that while the education system is the main promoter of mobility in normal countries, the school in our country only strengthens the impact of the family background even more. The high number of early school leavers with a negative record of 11 years, the 25 percent share of functional illiterates, can only be called hardcore destruction of the future of education policy. It's dangerous. [[13.20]] The infinitely arrogant Nershevik mentality that treats the nation's day laborers as servants of the system only makes it worse. Even though 80 percent of teachers are on strike, the government still doesn't talk to the PDSC strike committee. And before they misinterpret and visualize greedy teachers who don't have the god's money, let's be clear that the strike that's about to take place isn't just about wages. Of course, with payments equal to the guaranteed minimum wage, it will be quite difficult to attract and keep young graduates on this wonderful track. The profession has grown old, and after the relentlessly approaching pension bomb, there will be a shortage of teachers that will really break the country. This warning is also about children, young people, the future of the nation, about building a fair, competitive education system, where, of course, there is individual responsibility, but the chance is not only given to children of the people of luxury parks who go to expensive private schools, but also to those who are talented, hardworking, but the family wallet is not as thick as your elite. Orbán has been trained by Soros, Viktor Orbán and now he will give scholarships to 1400 Arab students. But what about the young Hungarians, and why don't you talk to the teachers? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-02-25-84	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2019-02-25-85	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I would therefore like to point out to your attention that you are holding a press conference on your willingness to cooperate with the socialists, all well-intentioned people, standing up here in Parliament, saying that Hungary is in a terrible situation and admitting that it is the result of many years or decades in some respects, and forgetting to say that those whom you courted at your own better press conference have, after all, closed the possibility of education in 381 places, yet they have taken a month's wages from teachers, but they have dismissed 15,000 teachers in one year. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Ten years have passed since then! Dániel Z. Carpathian: It smells very sweaty!]] And now you say that you would be so willing to cooperate with those who have struck the Hungarian education system and then speak nicely about the need to create a better education system. Honourable Congressman, This government is the one that has really raised the OECD surveys, and if you look at it, you can see that it has raised the wages of teachers, the income of teachers, which has not been seen in any other country in five years. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: The price increases will take him away!]] That's exactly why this track has to be respected. In terms of replacement training, we launched the Klebelsberg Training Scholarship, which already took part in 1859 students in previous years, so that they would like to study in a non-professional pedagogical field and then work in a public institution. This year the number of these students increased by 723, so there are already 2582 who have chosen the teaching course precisely as a result of this training scholarship and career guidance scholarship. It is a talkable number, however, that if you look at the application applications, the number of teachers will now be in the first three or five. However, it is important that you look at how much more people are applying to the teaching field now than, say, in 2010, you see a 30% increase among students. And it's especially weird that you're feeding the PDS. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Let's say five years ago, the Jobbik wouldn't have done that, but they didn't just do that. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] And we're happy to negotiate with all teachers, which is why we've created a strategy table for public education, and we're sorry that certain organizations don't come, but it's not our fault. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-25-86	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I would like to remind you, Mr. Secretary, that I had to ring the bell, ring the bell, two minutes to respond. Dear Parliament, Mr. Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance: " How much is a worker's torn finger worth? " The title is given below. Mr. Korózs, it's up to you.
u2019-02-25-87	Dear House, Dear fellow Members, In my question, the former OSH superintendents, which functioned as an independent body with national competence, have now become the departments of government offices. On the basis of a report published by the Ministry of Finance on 11 January 2019, until 30 September 2018, the labour authorities checked 13 316 employers and 70 percent of employers detected labour infringements. Black employment remains one of the most common violations in the domestic labour market. In its report issued on 7 January 2018, the Ministry of Finance carried out extensive checks on 10 701 employers who were audited by the OSH authority during the first three quarters of the year, which, although 7 percent lower than the same period of the previous year, more than 74 percent of the audited employers experienced OSH irregularities. In the same study, 154 serious occupational accidents were reported to the territorially competent occupational safety authority, 67 of these reports were fatal, 38 life-threatening, 37 serious mutilations and 12 other serious accidents. That is why I am asking Minister and Minister of State what the government intends to do to improve workers' employment and labour protection positions. How long will labour and occupational safety rules continue to be relaxed at the expense of workers? I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. Thank you very much.
u2019-02-25-88	Thank you, Congressman Korózs. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Bodó.
u2019-02-25-89	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Congressman! I would like to point out that from last year's inspection data, you are making a false conclusion. If the proportion of irregularities experienced by the Authority has decreased, we can probably talk about improvements in working conditions; and this is also demonstrated by the fact that, according to the data for 2018, the proportion of irregular employers has further decreased to 72,8 percent, as you said. Latest work accident data also support improvements in working conditions, since the increase in work accidents has been permanently halted. This fact also represents an improvement in terms of employment growth, as there have never been so many people in Hungary before. The government is therefore committed to improving working conditions, neither labour protection nor labour rules are relaxed, on the contrary. In recent years, we have, among other things, extended the range of employees obliged to choose OSH representatives, and we have made the use of professionals required to investigate all occupational accidents, we have also increased the possibilities of sanctioning them, and from last year, the employer who failed to notify the employee will be fined by the labour authority even in the event of the first infringement. The OSH authority is particularly monitoring the highly dangerous sectors, such as agriculture and the construction sector, and is looking at jobs in the bakery and pastry industry, for example, specifically this year, in order to prevent mutilation. The primary task of the labour authority remains to detect and reduce undeclared employment. On this basis, the government takes the protection of workers very seriously and does its utmost to ensure that similar cases do not occur. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-02-25-90	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Prime Minister: " How many votes did Fidesz support the election fraud in April last year? " The title is given below. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Minister of Interior Sándor Pintér has appointed Mr Károly Kontra as Secretary of State. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-02-25-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The warning of the Democratic Coalition that Hungarians across the border's right to vote threaten the serious threat of fraud was received by a major uproar before the election. Of the signs cut to our heads, the traitor and the Hungarian hater were even gentler, even though we represented the interests of all Hungarians. However, to Ágnes Vadai's question, now Péter Polt admitted that the investigation into the Ukrainians who acquired Hungarian citizenship by cheating and established in Hungary started on 28 January in 370 cases. So far, the authorities have raised 157 indictments and the courts have already ruled on 108 cases. According to the information, the majority of cases were prosecuted for citizenship acquired without knowledge of the Hungarian language. In the cases of fictitious home address announcements, Hungarian hosts issued false address reports to people who actually live in Ukraine, but for various reasons they created false addresses in Hungary. [[13.30]] The former mayor of Tiszaújlak told the non-fidesz News TV that he had delivered a thousand people to Fidesz: he had delivered a thousand people to Fidesz, telling them who and what to vote for. So the election fraud happened. What we warned you about now was the Fidesz Attorney General. The question is not, therefore, who is concerned about Hungarians across the border, of course we too are concerned about the relationship between Hungarians across the border and the mother country and who is a traitor, but who is covering for an election fraud that helps Fidest. So here's what I'm gonna ask you. How many tens of thousands of votes did you really get for the Fidesz by cheating? Does the government have accurate information on how many tens of thousands of false votes have maintained the majority of the government's two-thirds mandate? When will there be a new, cheat-free parliamentary election, and when will the Orbán government resign? Thank you for your attention. [[A rare applause from the benches of DK, LMP and Jobbik.]]
u2019-02-25-92	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State.
u2019-02-25-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The law on electoral procedures and all legislation comply with European standards. According to Hungary's Fundamental Law, all Hungarian citizens are entitled to general and equal suffrage, and the vote is always direct and secret. Suffrage in Hungary is voluntary and free. [[Gergely Arató: Except for Hungarians living in the West...]] Almost a year was not enough to allow the Democratic Coalition to take note of the results of the parliamentary elections in 2018. [[Gergely Harvesto: If it was a fraud, why should we acknowledge it?]] I would like to inform you that on 8 May 2018 the Parliament adopted the report on the parliamentary elections for 2018 [[Zsolt Gréczy: Fidesz votes!]] which made it clear that the elections took place in the legal order, honourable Member. The Democratic Coalition did not take part in this vote. [[A statement from the representatives of DK: It's good!]] The elections were in compliance with the basic law, legal, free from influence. Government tasks related to the technical implementation of the elections have been carried out in a professional and transparent manner. [[Zsolt Gréczy: The OSCE does not see it that way.]] This was confirmed by the OSCE Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights in its report. According to the OSCE report, [[Zsolt Gréczy: The system is frozen.]] the free exercise of the constitutional fundamental rights of suffrage was guaranteed to everyone. I note that the independent body evaluating electoral complaints and objections is the National Election Committee in Hungary. Each representative of the nominating organisations setting up the national list may be a member of the National Election Committee, so that the Democratic Coalition could also delegate and participate in the work of the Committee. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Secretary of State, about fraud...]] as he is currently involved in the work of the Committee with a delegated member. The laws apply to all of us. The police are taking action against anyone who broke the law. In its general investigative powers, criminal proceedings are always initiated, conducted and conducted in accordance with the law. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties. Mr. Zsolt Gréczy: It was a fraud, Mr. Secretary of State. There's been a scam! There's been an election scam.]]
u2019-02-25-94	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question: It's an address. It's up to Congresswoman.
u2019-02-25-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In Hungary, 8-10 thousand people are killed every year by air pollution, i.e. every 16 deaths are caused by air pollution. It is calculated that in the event of good air quality, people could live on average a year and a half longer in Budapest, in a healthy way. The government knows exactly, or at least should know what to do to reduce silent killers, such as dust, sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides. If for nothing else, it is because air quality is subject to EU standards, which we should have complied with ten years ago. But the government got out of it. Even the infringement proceedings that have been going on for years have been so ignored that the European Commission has been forced to refer the matter to the European Court of Justice for our failure to comply. How, then, should we take seriously your promise that Hungary will comply with the EU directive that strictly requires the reduction of atmospheric pollutants by 2030 with the measures taken by the national air pollution reduction programme? The big question is what this programme will be about, what measures are planned. Who and from what source will ensure implementation? Will there be a meaningful public energy efficiency programme and energy poverty eradication? Because this could significantly reduce air pollution from heating. And what are they doing to reduce pollution from transport, to improve public transport? After all, we know that these are the main causes of air pollution. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A rare applause from the benches of LMP and Jobbik.]]
u2019-02-25-96	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Farkas.
u2019-02-25-97	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, I must stress that the government's priority is to improve the health of the population and, to this end, to provide air, preferably in good quality, throughout the country. As I have already said to you in raising a similar question, we did not wait for the measures, we launched a cross-sectoral programme for reducing emissions from small particles years ago, in which a number of measures were implemented worth HUF 160 billion. With regard to air quality developments, we should not ignore transboundary air pollution, geographical location or weather conditions, as these are also significant factors. Of course, work to reduce emissions has not stopped. The European Union has set new emission reduction requirements for certain pollutants in the Member States. The emissions of ammonia, nitrogen oxide, sulphur dioxide, volatile organic matter and particulates with a diameter of less than 2.5 micrometers should be reduced by 32-37 per cent compared to 2005 by 2030. The national air load reduction programme is being developed to achieve these objectives. The actions of the comprehensive programme shall cover the activities of agriculture, transport, the energy sector and the public involved in air pollution, including those relating to heating and energy efficiency. In addition to government actors, representatives of civil society organisations were also involved in the preparation of the programme. We want to ensure that these measures are implemented through EU and domestic budgetary resources. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-02-25-98	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Innovation and Technology:. Why has the construction of the M4 road been between Cegléd and Szolnok for months? It's an address. It's up to Congressman.
u2019-02-25-99	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! Orbán has promised to connect these cities to the capital between 2015 and 2017 with four lanes. In Szolnok, he promised by 2019 that he would be connected by a four-track road, obviously to the greatest pleasure of the inhabitants there, but, ladies and gentlemen, it is the case and it looks like the construction of the M4 will be possible to see every day that no work has been done mainly in the parts around Abony and Cegléd, Cegléd and Cegléd. There is a short section that Cegléd managed to deliver in campaign mode, which was built on a part that was half-finished and existing, so it needed a very small addition, but since then there has been virtually no sign of work, and nothing has been heard about it, just like Florian Farkas hasn't been heard lately. But please, despite the fact that Viktor Orbán said that he was born in a village, raised in a village and learned to behave there, this does not relieve him of the fact that the Szolnok are not to be deceived. The Szolnok people have been waiting for a very long time to finally replace the path of death with something else, the M4, and the route 4, which is a life-threatening and not safe road, should finally be a well-traveled road and thus be connected to one of my most important county seats in Budapest's blood circulation. So I respectfully ask Mr. Secretary of State, and I ask that we clear the air, whether they wanted to deceive the Szolnok with the promise of the journey. How much of the M4 has been completed so far, how long has it been handed over? How much has this cost taxpayers so far? And when will the part between Cegléd and Abony ever end? Is it expected that it will be this year, and if not, when will they apologize to the residents of Szolnok? Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]] [[13.40]]
u2019-02-25-100	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2019-02-25-101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Let's get this straight. [[Interjection in Jobbik's ranks, that'd be nice.]] If it weren't for the Orbán government to run the country now for almost nine years [[Interjection in Jobbik's ranks: We wouldn't have so many problems!]] but your ally, with whom you've been hugging every day during protests or political campaigns, in which case the Szolnok couldn't have had the hope that Route 4 was ever four lanes. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Long live the party!]] But after, thank God, the situation is that the civil government, the Orbán government, can now run the country for more than one time, construction, highway construction has also begun towards Szolnok. But before you can give the simplest answer to the question you've asked yourself, if you'd like to think about it, you can give yourself that answer, otherwise, you have to tell me that there seems to be something to hide, you have something to hide, and that's why you don't deal with the sensitive issues that concern you. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Answer me, I know you can do it!]] but fake questions and fake problems [[Interjection in Jobbik's ranks: Is the M4 road a false question? You're kidding.]] I'm being raised in Parliament. Let me answer the question you asked me. The simple answer is that if you went out to any area of the country and looked at constructions, you would realize that in winter in Hungary construction and road construction companies do not work. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes. Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks.]] So if you were not to ignore sensitive topics, not to deal with them, but to deal with the facts, you could see that in recent months the investments in question have not progressed because, due to the adverse weather in the field of road and rail construction in the period from mid-November to mid-March, the work cannot be carried out economically and continuously. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Jesus!]] In addition, road safety in the national road area and in its immediate vicinity [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and, in the light of road operation considerations, construction work during the winter period may not be carried out, or only on the basis of weather, in an agreed manner. [[Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks.]] Therefore, the construction of Route 4 will continue in spring. [[Interjection in the ranks of Jobbik: Long live the spring!]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-25-102	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Finance a question, "Why does the Government not address the housing of people who are not assisted by the CSOK?" It's an address. It's up to Congressman.
u2019-02-25-103	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, We have heard a lot from the government about the opportunities that the CSOK opens for all those who can make use of it. However, it is a fact that there are millions of people in Hungary today who do not belong to this category because they do not meet the conditions or because they are looking for permanent housing because of their life situation, but only temporary housing. It is natural for families to prefer own homes in the light of long-term stability and predictability, but we must not forget those young people who, in most cases, are still looking for temporary housing because they do not dare to start borrowing debt. That is why we are confused about the statement by Secretary of State Katalin Novák that the government does not think about starting a social housing programme because there is no need for it in Hungarian society. Dear Secretary of State, My question doesn't concern the CSOK, so please don't talk about it in your response, but about those who remain outside the users' circle. When do you deal with them? When can we finally hear about the fact that, like other countries, we are dealing with the situation of rent prices, or are we about to launch a rental-building programme that would allow young couples, beginners, and people in need of help to housing at a lower price than in the market? [[Interjection in the ranks of Jobbik: That's right!]] It is not by accident that Jobbik has stressed for years that the creation of an affordable housing sector is essential to try to resolve the housing crisis by means other than the CSOK. The question, therefore, remains, Mr Secretary of State: can it be expected that the government will finally deal with the situation of rent prices or that it will launch the housing programme? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-02-25-104	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2019-02-25-105	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I want to thank you for recognising the CSOK system. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: He found the essential...]] it supports it, and if I understand your speech correctly, it demands that it be extended. He forbade me to talk about the CSOK. [[Dr. László György Lukács: He asked.]] But if you'll allow me, I'd like to give you some of the numbers on the system that you're basically supporting right now. [[Interview in Jobbik's ranks: Sublet prices. Z. Kárpát Dániel: It wasn't about the CSOK, you didn't understand the question.]] CSOK was launched in July 2015, and currently an application was submitted for HUF 282 billion in the CSOK system, and it already affects about 100,000 people. Indeed, the government's basic goal is to get people to their own apartments, and you have acknowledged that. [[György Szilágyi: Secretary of State, that was not the question. Interjection in Jobbik's ranks: Bad paper...]] If you get to know the CSOK system, you can see that this system [[There are constant interruptions in Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] CSOK supports... By the way, I'll tell you that today the Hungarian people... Even though you don't like it, you're talking about rent. [[Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks: You don't understand the question! Dániel Z. Carpathian: You got the question in writing!]] I'm talking about what the government wants. [[Interview in Jobbik's ranks: Rent! Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks.]] 90 percent of people live in their own homes in Hungary. And in your question, you asked me a question about who the CSOK didn't cover, but you forgot to tell me who it doesn't cover, so if you're interested, I'm here to help you. For example, with regard to the social housing scheme, the National Asset Manager, the State, has purchased the apartment from families in difficulty, and now under a 2018 law, it offers the 36 thousand public apartments at a discount to be bought back by these people. It's the social program of the apartment. But I could tell you about the construction of the workers' workstation, housing support and the dormitory program. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Of course, you don't care, you didn't mention it, so I'm helping you with what the government has done. [[Interview in Jobbik's ranks: Answer the question!]] who are not covered by the CSOK, what kind of support they receive. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-25-106	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr. Dániel Z., representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister a question: "Acquisition or submission?" It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Minister for Finance Mihály Varga, who is competent on the subject, will answer the question at the request of Mr András Tállai.
u2019-02-25-107	Mr President, Dear House, I ask the Secretary of State with sufficient restraint that, if the transaction fee wrongly imposed had to be paid by commercial banks, these banks had passed on to Hungarians, then why did they not do anything to ensure that the banks to whom this levy was levied would pay this levy after all. There was an even more harsh change after 1 January, when, rightly and in a manner supported by me, the legislator practically abolished this transaction fee for transactions below HUF 20,000, but it was possible, Mr Secretary of State, that this abolition, after the supposed relief of burdens for people, did not change the announcements of several major commercial banks, so they did not introduce this concession through their own system, in Hungarian: people are being pulled down by a type of levy that the legislator has since abolished for them. So the fact is that these commercial banks, which produce record profits, unreasonably pull down the Hungarian citizens concerned. This discount was not published in their notice. How can you tolerate this, Mr. Secretary? My question is what you intend to do in this area. How will the transfer of the transaction fee be prevented in the future? When are you willing to re-inflate the banking sector special tax in a climate and environment where record profits are often generated by these banks with a completely unjustified shift in burden? What is a matter of great interest to the system and to the foreign exchange lenders is that their pact with the EBRD, i.e. the pact between the government of Hungary and the EBRD, will be terminated. It is stated in this pact that these banks will not be burdened with additional burdens in order to settle the fate of credit-damaged bank customers. This package was summarised in Jobbik's six points on bank accountability. I am interested, Mr State Secretary, in how open they are to the elimination of these very obvious insolences. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and how willing are they to protect customers from commercial banks that fish in confusion and do this completely unreasonably? Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-02-25-108	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai. [[13.50]]
u2019-02-25-109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You've been accusing the Fidesz-KDNP government of supporting banks for years, supporting the banking system. It's obviously a lie, and you know it, but the only thing you can think of is accusing the current government of that. What's the proof that he didn't? For example, the evidence that after 2010, after the government was established, it introduced a special banking tax, essentially for the first time in Europe, followed by 12 countries. He introduced the credit institution's allowance and the transaction fee. After that, during the settlement of foreign currency loans, he charged the Hungarian banking system about HUF 1000 billion. After that, to say that the current government supports banks is simply impossible. And what are you saying with this announced, I don't know, six points? [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Are you so prepared, Mr. Secretary?]] Three out of the six points you would like to raise taxes. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: It's not true!]] Fidesz doesn't support you. They may be able to carry out this by raising taxes, a credit institution's allowance, which, by the way, did not mean anything to the budget, because it could be deducted from the tax base; instead, the transaction fee mentioned by you was abolished by the Government and Parliament from 1 January 2019. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Then why hasn't it stopped?]] Thus, the current government has also reduced taxes in this respect. The agreement with the EBRD serves precisely to ensure that the Hungarian banking system is stable, that the Hungarian economy and the Hungarian financial system are operational. You're asking the government to kick this. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That you should not be servants!]] What I can promise you is that we will consider your proposals for a tax increase in terms of breaking the pact. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-02-25-110	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We're out of questions, we're taking a ten-minute technical break. (Recess: 13.52-13.57) President: Mr Sándor Lezsák Note: György Szilágyi and Dr. István Tiba)
u2019-02-25-111	Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the House Rules of the Decision are 29. In accordance with the powers set out in paragraph 3 (b), the H/4757 is to be said by Ms Ágnes Vadai. The President of the Parliament rejected the immediate question, as the question violates the authority of the Parliament. Dear Parliament, Peter James, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How long does power take advantage of all our patience? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding or ask the Prime Minister for the answer in person.
u2019-02-25-112	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't accept the identity of the responder.
u2019-02-25-113	Thank you, Congressman. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, a representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Attorney General an immediate question: "How long does power abuse all our patience? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-02-25-114	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, I believe you have been informed that the government has removed the accounts of the Elios project from the accounts submitted to the Union, thereby giving up or giving up Hungary's fate for HUF 13 000 million to the Union. But he also had to be informed because the European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control wanted to hear you on this matter, but he wasn't brave enough to go out and answer the committee's questions. There would have been serious questions at this hearing, as well as serious questions about this 13 000 million forint, since OLAF, the EU Anti-Fraud Office, has long established that money from the Elios project will not be paid. In connection with this project, which would have financed the modernisation of public lighting from EU money, and which is the company of the Elios company's son-in-law Viktor Orbán, this company has committed fraud organised according to OLAF, was abuse in tendering and execution, overinvoicing, personal mergers and only paper quality control. Several people have complained about it in Hungary, and the prosecutor's office has also filed a complaint, and, of course, unlike OLAF, everything is in order and investigations have been terminated, causing damage to the country of 13 000 million, and this is how much money has been taken from the Hungarian people with your help. With regard to the prosecutor's office, it has also been proven in this case that the prosecution takes into account political considerations and possibly requests in the course of investigations, the environment of Viktor Orbán is not being thoroughly investigated against the prominents of Fidesz. As chief prosecutor, you have a serious responsibility, you are not doing your job properly. Don't you think you should draw the right conclusions and resign from your post? [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-02-25-115	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Attorney General Péter Polt.
u2019-02-25-116	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I'll try to move in order. I wasn't prepared because it wasn't the subject of the question. The government's negotiations with the European Commission on EU funds are not the authority of the prosecutor's office, I cannot judge; I cannot answer or am not invited to do so from this chair. On the other hand, with regard to the hearing of the Budget Committee, I can say that the Budget Committee, contrary to this body that I am standing before, does not have any control over the prosecutorship of Hungary. Nevertheless, we cooperate with him, we have a very good cooperation, we have met before, we are also in writing. [[14.00]] Now, however, the blog entry of a member of the committee has revealed that they want to use the committee meeting for political purposes. The Public Prosecutor's Office shall not participate in this by virtue of the Fundamental Law. As regards OLAF's finding, OLAF is investigating administrative phenomena and cannot identify criminal offences and has no right to do so. That's why you can file a complaint, in which case the D.A. always orders an investigation. That's what happened now. On the other hand, the investigation was not terminated by the D.A.'s office, it was the police's task in the field of recon. And as far as the prosecution's political involvement is concerned, I refuse to do so. There's no way, there isn't and there won't be. The D.A.'s office is doing its job fair and square, according to the law. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the pro-government benches]]
u2019-02-25-117	Thank you, Attorney General. The congressman has a rejoinder.
u2019-02-25-118	I see you don't feel the seriousness of this case. You know, you should've gone out because if OLAF said there were abuse here, the prosecutor's office that you run says no, then go out there and defend the mundane's honor. But you know perfectly well that you couldn't protect him because OLAF's findings were correct. Do you know why it was still important for you to go outside anyway? You should represent this country. The EU rules state that if the investigative authority of that country discovered the abuse, this money, this 13 000 million HUF, could have been used for other projects. If it is not discovered by the prosecutor or investigative authority of that Member State, but by OLAF, then it will be lost. You were supposed to fight outside for 13,000 million forints, but you didn't do that either. Are you talking about political issues? Well, you're the ones who work on the political side. That is why it would be good, which is also not supported by Fidesz, and neither do you, that you should join the European Public Prosecutor's Office. If we had nothing to hide about the use of the money given by the European Union, we would be able to join in and check these funds. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] After all, in Hungary, even the money that the European Union is planning to control is being stolen, and 5 billion forints have been lost in recent years. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-02-25-119	Thank you, Congressman. The rejoinder is also due to the Attorney General.
u2019-02-25-120	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, He probably didn't listen to my answer: we have excellent cooperation with the budget committee. Contact is ongoing, and all your questions will be answered, but the D.A.'s office cannot be used for campaign purposes. I'll make one more point. As regards the rest of the question, accession to the European Public Prosecutor's Office is not the subject of the Prosecutor's Office. This will be decided by the Parliament or the government. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-02-25-121	Thank you, Attorney General. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. The victims of the health system. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[On the sign of Lajos Korózs:]] Yes, thank you. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-02-25-122	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The first word about the case is your condolences. I'd like to express my condolences to the family who lost their 17-year-old son last week. A 17-year-old young man in Western Square, in Tuesday afternoon hours, fell ill and collapsed. Paramedics were called in at 5:04 p.m. According to my information, the ambulance notified was in Buda, and about 11 minutes later, he received the information that he should go to West Square, so at 5:15 p.m. After that, the young man was getting worse. A lot of people wanted to help him, and two young teenagers begged to enter the rescue center on Markó Street to come help now, because this young man is going to die. According to my information, there was a specialist here on Markó Street who could care for the young man, but he was not informed that a young man was dying about 200 meters from the rescue centre. The first ambulance arrived at 5:29 p.m., and then at 5:32 p.m., another one, where he was a paramedic. As far as I know, the procedure failed, and later this young man died. We need to record a few things. It's not the driver, it's not the paramedic, it's not the paramedic, it's the crew, it's the control. [[Lajos Rig: But who appointed him?]] It's the system's fault. What happened here, Mr. Secretary? Would you be so kind as to answer in public? Thank you.
u2019-02-25-123	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2019-02-25-124	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think we all share the family's grief because losing a child is a huge blow for all parents. As you know, honourable Member, as the rescue service immediately issued a statement, human failure caused the late arrival, and therefore the rescue director and the rescue director were suspended from work. When the investigation is over, and if they have any bearing on their involvement in the events, we will be able to provide you with final information. However, it is certain, honourable Member, that anyone in the country will be ill today, wherever they call for an ambulance, there is a much greater chance that they will be able to receive the right care, because while in 2010 we spent just HUF 22.5 billion on saving, this year's budget is now HUF 42.9 billion, which means that the annual budget for rescue has increased by 91 percent in Hungary's budget this year compared to 2010. [[14.10]] We have built 31 completely new rescue stations to make sure that those who are away from a rescue station are sick or have an accident, too, that the ambulance gets to them sooner. And we've renewed 104 rescue stations, which is why most of the rescue stations are now new or renewed. Last year, we buy 117 new ambulances this year in order to make sure the state-of-the-art cars run out for those in trouble. Overall, 778 new modern ambulances will be in service by the end of March this year. This means that while the average age of ambulances in 2010-11 was 8.3 years, it is now falling to 5.5 years, thus improving the quality of rescue. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-25-125	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressman has a one-minute rejoinder.
u2019-02-25-126	Thank you very much. Dear House, There are two things we can definitely nail down here. One is that there's been a human failure. As a result of human error, it became clear to me that the system here is wrong, this system is wrong. If this system allows such omissions to be made, that system must be changed. Here, someone has a responsibility to make this system work for months, years. Last week, the Deputy State Secretary and the Director General boasted at a conference about the world-class segment of the Hungarian supply system, while this young man died. I think that the discharge of the rescue director is limited, here the medical director has a responsibility, the Director General has a responsibility, but, forgive me, even the minister. Ceterum censeo, Kasler must go! Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition.]]
u2019-02-25-127	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2019-02-25-128	Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You were the secretary of state for a government that hasn't been able to get ambulances for years. Where are your responsibilities, Your Honour? [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: This too sucks!]] We have not only had to replace ambulances that have grown old in the last nine years, but also in the previous years. [[Lajos Korózs: What's that got to do with it?]] You've taken a month's wages from all public sector employees, including rescue workers. [[Gergely Harvesto: Did you give it back?]] And then you're gonna stand up here and make speeches like that in the National Assembly? ! Honourable Congressman, In order to make the system work as much as possible, the emergency services have now switched to digital data transmission, precisely so that all information at the hospital can be obtained before the ambulance gets there. [[Lajos Rig: That's not true either!]] so that they can know these data from the digital health field. Last year, as well as last year, the amount much higher than HUF 1 billion [[Gergely Arató: Only one man died in the process, Mr. Secretary of State.]] One year we spent 1.3 billion forints, the next year 1.9 billion forints. More than 1 billion forints for the purchase of new work clothes. Budapest, where one of the most alarms occurs [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] In one year, we increased the car park by 10 percent, from 138 to 149 rescue units. These are the improvements we've made. [[The president's ringing again.]] to make everyone's lives safer in Budapest. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-25-129	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. Do you speak English? Parlez-vous francais? Snakker du norsk? Sprechen Sie Deutsch? Habla usted espanol? It's an address. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári applauds.]] The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári State Secretary for the response to the urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[Gergely Harvester: El.]] It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-02-25-130	Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The point of the question is left out of reading the title: do you really need a language exam for college admissions? That is the point, Mr State Secretary, because you have announced that from 2020 only those who have a language exam can apply to higher education. Members of the profession and we in this House have said that this requirement only makes sense if there is quality language education in secondary schools. We said that this could only be introduced by a government that could not scare but also govern, so that it could face the problems of education. We have said that in this form, as you want to introduce it, this measure is useless, only to close the doors of higher education in front of a large part of Hungarian students. You didn't listen to the profession, you didn't listen to the opposition's comments, but you did make a survey, which showed that today this measure would exclude almost half the children in high school from higher education. We know that your goal is to make the country dumb, and your aim is to make as few graduate students as possible and to be a graduate in Hungary, but even this is a particularly insufferable way, because it is obvious that the requirement for language examination does not exclude the Fidesz elite, not the Oligarma children from private schools, but those students from the difficult ranks where the parent does not have the money to teach private languages, there is no way to replace what public education is not able to do today. Dear Secretary of State, Plus, you're messing with admissions, because for the first time, when your experts realized that what they wanted was stupid, they had it written in the pro-government press and leaked that they were going to postpone this measure, and then when everyone was happy, they withdrew it. Why is that necessary? Why do they want to exclude Hungarian students from higher education?
u2019-02-25-131	Thank you, Congressman, notary. I'll give the floor to the Secretary of State for an answer.
u2019-02-25-132	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Students are not excluded from higher education by the fact that we impose language skills as a requirement for admission at universities and colleges, but by what you tried to do a number of years ago when you were on the government when you wanted to introduce tuition fees. [[Peter Cseresnyés: That's right! Péter Ungár: You also introduced the tuition fee! There is now!]] This would have created enormous difficulties for all Hungarian students, especially those you referred to most, those who are in a difficult financial situation. And eleven years ago, Fidesz and KDNP were required to abolish the tuition fee in Hungary against your intentions and adopted law, and for the second time, since it was first introduced by the Horn government, it was abolished by the first Orbán government, and then the Gyurcsány-Bajnai Cabinet was introduced, and it was abolished by the second Orbán government. This is the role of higher education: you limit it while Fidesz-KDNP expands access to higher education. In recent years, we have made the language exam free, precisely so that the first successful attempt will be free of charge for everyone. We have been able to help 27 967 language examiners worth HUF 823 million. This has also contributed to the radical increase in the number of language examiners in the high school age group from 2017 to 2018, in the past year, from 46 411 to 54 006, the number of people who could pass the language exam has increased, honourable Member. Thus, more and more people are getting an exam certificate on language skills. By learning the language, our program will help thousands of students to gain language skills and language skills in addition to school classes worth 2.5 billion forints. This was also part of what Eurostat found to be an increase in the proportion of people with language skills in Hungary in the last ten years from 25 percent to 42 percent. That is what we would like to raise further with the generous programme presented by the Prime Minister in his annual speech. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-02-25-133	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder is given to me, Mr. Messenger.
u2019-02-25-134	Dear Secretary of State, It is certainly good that you acknowledge the results of our administration, because this increase in proportion you are talking about is, of course, not the result of your government, but of the measures taken during our government. But it's less important, what's important is that you've been throwing statistics here, and your survey shows that four out of ten students can't go to higher education next year. As far as tuition is concerned, it wasn't the tuition, it was the contribution of a few thousand forints. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: 100,000!]] but what Mr Palkovics, Secretary of State also acknowledges that tuition fees are the self-costs that amount to hundreds of thousands or even more than one million forints every six months. Finally, Mr Secretary of State, your excellent programme, which is now being announced, is good for the holiday programme, but one language cannot be learned in two weeks. Any Hungarian high school student could learn a language for a year from the amount that is intended for this and a significant part of which will be stolen. That's what the money should be spent on, and then talk about college admissions.
u2019-02-25-135	Thank you very much. The rejoinder also deserves the Secretary of State. [[14.20]]
u2019-02-25-136	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, This was an important moment, since you confirmed that you still consider it a good decision to introduce the tuition fee, which was not a few thousand forints, honourable Member, but a hundred thousand forints, which should have been paid to all Hungarian families. When it was introduced by the Horn government, it was the 40,000 HUF category that you introduced, the category of hundreds of thousands that should have been paid to all Hungarian families who would have sent their children to university. But the other half was also important to your speech, honourable Member. You would take this amount, not allow young people to study in a native language for two weeks in English, German or other foreign languages. You're attacking the government's program. You are attacking what is most helpful to those you always refer to, but then when you vote, you vote against it, because the most helpful thing for families in difficulty is that they can go to England for two weeks, say, three years and a year before graduation and spend two weeks in a native language environment. You DKs would take this opportunity away from all families today, and most painfully from families whose children are in the most difficult situation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-25-137	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes and Péter Ungár, representatives of the LMP, wish to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question on the national affairs? It's an address. Mr. Prime Minister has appointed Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding, or whether the Prime Minister will be asked for his answer personally.
u2019-02-25-138	We'll wait for the Prime Minister.
u2019-02-25-139	Thank you very much. Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Péter Ungár, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he will personally ask the Minister for an answer.
u2019-02-25-140	It's an honor to be the responder. I accept, yes.
u2019-02-25-141	I mean, the responder's identity. [[Peter Ungár: Yes.]] You have the floor, Congressman Peter Ungár.
u2019-02-25-142	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, The government still has a lot to catch up on when it comes to home care. Despite the positive progress made last year under pressure from opposition representatives and civil society organisations, this problem has not yet been resolved, the situation of home care workers has not been resolved. Four things are expected from the government, four steps should be taken by the government to resolve this situation. The first is to increase the home care fee to HUF 100,000 for people who care for their elderly parents or other relatives, not their children. The second is the point system that professional organisations and interest representatives rejected and considered unprofessional, which could result in thousands of parents, mainly raising autistic children, falling out of your weeds, withdrawing, eliminating, and having enough diagnosis to judge this 100 thousand forints. The third is to introduce the institution of the grandparents' weed, so that the grandparents can accept the home care fee so that the parent can go to the labour market. The fourth is to apply for a child care fee in addition to a pension. At present, Christian democracy cannot be discussed in Hungary if a person who is caring for his mother with dementia, say Alzheimer's disease, receives 55,000 forints. In your response, you will say a 15 percent increase. Say what 15 percent of 55,000 forints are. The thing is, if you are serious about family values and you are serious about ruling in a Christian Democratic way, then people who do the caring work deserve to receive at least 100,000 forints. Thank you very much.
u2019-02-25-143	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2019-02-25-144	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I expect who will be the bravest opposition representative who will at one time apologize to those who receive care fees who are in the category of home care fees, for not having put pressure on Fidesz-KDNP here in Parliament, but not even taking the push of the button for the people who needed your support the most. After all, on 12 December, when we raised the children's home care fee to HUF 100,000 by introducing a new category, and we decided that all care fees will increase by 30 per cent by 2022, and when we decided that by 2022 the child's home care fee will rise year by year to reach the minimum wage by 2022, no opposition representative supported this and even applied physical violence to ensure that this was unprecedented not only in the case of Hungarian but also in the case of other parliamentaryism, so that physical violence was used in order for the leading president to put this question to the vote. And now they're not apologizing, they're laughing and laughing at it. [[Noise on the opposition side.]] And if, despite physical violence, the chairman could put the question to the vote, none of them had the courage to go to their seats instead of beeping, honking and confetti throwing, and at least in this vote press the ballot and support the increase in care fees. They were able to go to another bill because it was important to you, it was important, the exception they could make from the general heat rumble, but this vote was not important enough for you. This was subordinate to many others. They said we'd rather beep than raise the benefits of those receiving care than this vote. [[Gergely Arató: And what is the amount of the care fee? Shame on you.]] If it were up to you, we'd spend 15 billion forints less on home care. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-25-145	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman has a one-minute rejoinder.
u2019-02-25-146	Secretary of State, this cynical answer from here to Mócsföld the great Hungarian earth trembled. The fact is, when the opposition initiated an extraordinary meeting on this issue, you did not come to your workplace. What are you talking about? What are you talking about? ! A sitting was taken completely illegally, when the amendments of our socialist fellow Members were not allowed to be voted down, something was recorded illegally, and we tried to signal it to you somehow, but we failed. That's the method we used, but you weren't interested in the case. You told those involved to bring in a standard text at the meeting. I don't know if our fellow Member Selmeczi is still here, but he had a 2004 norm, that could have worked. You did not raise this issue until opposition representatives brought it into Parliament. You weren't interested in this until the announcements could be published, and you couldn't go to Echo TV to say that everything was okay in Hungary. Pathetic! Pathetic!
u2019-02-25-147	Thank you very much. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State.
u2019-02-25-148	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I didn't think they could put another shovel on it. Not only were they not allowed to vote, not only was it not voted, they are now even saying that we voted illegally to raise care fees. [[Peter Ungár: That's right!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, I think those involved deserve more respect. [[Noise on the opposition side.]] Mr President, on an ordinary sitting, this was a regular agenda, and should have been debated and supported there. As long as you can say big words on the street, you're loud, and when you need to vote, you're gonna sneak away for some reason. Let me quote the announcement from the National Association of the Association of Disabled People, who are most concerned:. The opposition policy did not understand its responsibilities. This is not another opportunity to overthrow the government, so choose another field. No one will become an advocacy and warrior opposition if he shouts out loud, smiles into the camera with a sympathetic face, talks unthinkingly and makes the crowds angry. At least listen to them if they didn't listen to us. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-25-149	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Attorney General an immediate question entitled "New Affairs." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-02-25-150	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Citizens, On the initiative of Benedek Jávor, the MEP for Dialogue and the green fraction, Péter Polt was invited by the European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control. The Committee invited the Attorney General to discuss a series of issues that had already been raised during the fact-finding visit in Hungary as a continuation of its journey in Hungary a year and a half ago to monitor the spending of EU funds in Hungary. In addition to the question of joining the European Public Prosecutor's Office, combating organised crime or international cooperation, the issue of the adoption of OLAF reports as evidence in Hungary would have been on the agenda if the Prosecutor General had deserved to go to Brussels. [[14.30]] But the Attorney General deigned me to escape the invitation after a pathetic explanation, so the EP committee couldn't ask his questions, and now I'm asking these questions. So: why can't the Fidesz prosecution accept the information collected by OLAF, the European Anti-Fraud Office, and why do the Hungarian authorities come to several different conclusions in a number of sensitive Fidesz cases than OLAF? Why does the Fidesz prosecutor's office consider in many cases that the evidence collected by OLAF is not acceptable in the Hungarian proceedings? And finally, with the resignation of 13 000 million from the company of Viktor Orbán's son-in-law, does the Fidesz government now officially acknowledge that EU funding for Elios projects has been simply stolen? I'm waiting for the Attorney General's answer.
u2019-02-25-151	Thank you, Congressman Tordai. I give the floor to Attorney General Péter Polt.
u2019-02-25-152	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Congressman! I have partially answered your question on an earlier immediate question, and I would just like to add this. Indeed, one of the topics in the invitation letter was to discuss the use of evidence collected by OLAF in criminal proceedings. The reason for this was that, in previous negotiations, it was raised that, since OLAF, as I have already mentioned today, is investigating administrative irregularities and not a criminal authority, it cannot provide evidence which can be accepted by the law on criminal proceedings in force today. You can draw attention to certain phenomena, provide documents, give opinions, but that does not mean that criminal proceedings should take place as provided for in the law. So this is the only debate that has come up in this circle as a professional debate. I think we'll have another chance to discuss this. Once again, I stress that we have been and are at the disposal of the Budget Committee and that we will help you with your work. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-02-25-153	Thank you, Attorney General. You have the opportunity to respond in return, Congressman.
u2019-02-25-154	The fact is, we should believe a statement that the OLAF report does not contain any serious evidence that is justified solely by its personal credit and that your personal credit is equal to zero. So let the OLAF report be made public in the Elios case. I was personally denied more complaints by not being able to rely on OLAF's report, which I cannot recognise. No one can legally know the OLAF report in Hungary, but only the Fidesz prosecutor's office, which refuses to deal with the scandalous 13 billion-dollar theft of the Prime Minister's son-in-law. The fact is that the most EU money is stolen in Hungary throughout the European Union, with 4 percent of the resources proposed by OLAF for review. That's double as much as the second worst indicator. They have created the most corrupt state in the European Union themselves, and the Chief Prosecutor is always covering for it. So make the OLAF report public. Are you willing to do this in the Elios case? [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2019-02-25-155	Thank you, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Attorney General.
u2019-02-25-156	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Congressman, you're not listening to what I'm saying. It was not that OLAF could not provide evidence. Yes, you can. However, those evidence must be examined in criminal proceedings and the evidence procedures must be carried out in accordance with the rules of criminal proceedings and it must be assessed whether they are adequate to support the crime. That is the case, and it is indeed a professional issue. And that's a good question. Of course, if OLAF provides evidence, we will always take it into account, we have taken it into account now, in this case the investigating authority acting. In any case, I can say that we have remained in contact with the Budget Committee, and this good relationship will continue in the future, despite all other circumstances. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-02-25-157	Thank you, Attorney General. Dear Parliament, F Sándor Kovács, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: - How do Jobbikos really feel about pensioners? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State for his reply for an urgent public mission. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response.
u2019-02-25-158	Yes, thank you, I accept.
u2019-02-25-159	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-02-25-160	Yes, the question is, how do the good guys feel about pensioners. [[There's a lot of noise, interference from the opposition benches.]] Fidesz appreciates, respects pensioners, acknowledges their knowledge, experience, and expects them. On the other hand, the betterman did not vote for women to retire after 40 years of employment. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: Why not?]] That's how you let the elderly down. The Fidesz disagrees with the opinion of Jobbik's media consultant, who in a leaked conversation called certain pensioners, those who express political opinions on their social media pages, as far-back commandos. [[There are constant interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] Máté Silhavy, Vice President of the Party and Dániel Z. Kárpát can be heard on the recording. From the leaked conversation, it is clear that Jobbik despises and despises the elderly voters, as the media consultant calls them stupid, calls them the Far-Back Commandos, whose opinions supporting the party are also expected on the social media site. Despite the outrage, the protest, there was not a single politician in the party who said, "I'm sorry, I'm sorry, but we didn't think we were wrong. The fallen president of Jobbik did not raise his word on this matter, nor did he apologize to the elderly. So that's how Jobbik thinks about pensioners, mocks, reads on their heads aging, trembling hands, XX. The agony of the century. And their losses, and their opinion of the world. Dear Secretary of State, That's what Jobbik thinks about pensioners. How does the government help, and how do you feel about pensioners? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-02-25-161	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2019-02-25-162	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, [[There's a lot of noise in Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] In fact, our right-wing fellow Members could solve this whole matter in one word if they apologized to the elderly. [[An uproar in Jobbik's ranks.]] If Gábor Vona apologizes, if Dániel Z. Carpathian apologizes, if one of the leaders of the Jobbik press apologizes, then they could solve this with one single sentence, with one single word. Or even if Tamás Sneider apologized, who explained earlier on a recording that the retirement population could form a government on its own, and in order to address them, it is necessary to be a nice, cute child. This is the reason for the left and style of Jobbik at that time. But from time to time, Gábor Vona, their former party president, sometimes gets close to a claviculture, and then he writes on Facebook that hatred flashes in the eyes of the pensioners he sees, and their mouths are drained of sewage while they're pulling their little shopping cart. He'll get to the time when he can only pull a shopping cart, and he can't lift it, because that's what we're all waiting for sooner or later. They want to shed blood with their trembling hands written by Gábor Vona, with his own hands, yelling at me and shouting at the 20th century. Every trauma of the century. I think on the day of memory of the victims of communism, it is particularly painful to hear this phrase, when a person has really been dragged into life, besmirched by the communist system, and it is only a grunt, yelling and obscenity that the president of Jobbik calls it, and forgets to apologize. His fellow Members defend and defend this position even now, even to this day, by screaming and nailing, even though he is no longer in the political group, nor is he in the chair of the party president. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] But they're still very happy to yell and defend these sentences instead of finally being brave enough to apologize for this Jobbik. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[14.40]]
u2019-02-25-163	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr F Sándor Kovács has a one-minute rejoinder.
u2019-02-25-164	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. All normal countries, normal people respect and respect their elders Because they built this country, they brought it all on us, and every normal country and every normal person helps the elderly. not by hurting, not by mocking, not by scolding, but by either material or moral respect. Secretary of State said we could expect an apology. [[Intercom from Jobbik's ranks: Apologize nicely.]] How honest would that apology be after everything we've heard on the tape and what we've heard here in the yelling? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dániel Z. Carpathian: What recordings did you hear?]]
u2019-02-25-165	Thank you, Congressman. Mr. Secretary of State will be rejoined.
u2019-02-25-166	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, This also shows that Jobbik can play anything for the media, play anything for its new allies, for the sake of the Communist Party's successor party and for the benefit of other opposition liberal parties. You can tell me all the principles you had when you were founded, you won't change, you'll still be the same extremist party as you were created. [[An uproar in the ranks of the Fidesz.]] There's nothing they can do if one of their congressmen has to resign on anti-Semitic charges because he's proud of beating a Jewish woman on the weekend, and then they can only replace one of them. [[Adam Mirkóczki:...is that we are anti-Semites!]] who is likewise subject to serious anti-Semitic accusations, because in his working time he was dealing with the encouragement of the current head of the group, Márton Gyöngyösi, who wanted to register the Jewish politicians of the Hungarian parliament, the Hungarian government [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Why lie?]] He listed the various representatives and opinion leaders of American politics of Jewish origin. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] The Jobbik does not change, the same racist, anti-Semitic, and no respect for the elderly as they started. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-25-167	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Carpathian, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How long will power return with all our patience? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding or ask the Prime Minister for the answer in person.
u2019-02-25-168	I respectfully accept it.
u2019-02-25-169	Thank you very much. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-02-25-170	Mr President, Dear House, On about two dozen occasions in this House, I encouraged the expansion of the CSOK in order not only to benefit from the upper middle class, but also to respond to typical Hungarian life situations. The typical Hungarian life situation is not that newly built palaces, apartments in residential parks are raised or taken over by Hungarian people, but, where appropriate, the acquisition of used apartments and the expansion of the home. I am glad that there has been a common reflection in this direction, but at three points, Minister, I must reprimand you, because at three points, the CSOK construction is discredited at a level that calls into question the whole intention behind it. First of all, I would like to say that, in the case of used properties, I consider it important not only to extend the preferential loan, but also to make the aid available in the same way as in the case of new builders, since the typical Hungarian living situation is housing rental, so that there is something to be done in the rental market in addition to the incredibly harsh, high rent prices, and the purchase of the used property, in the case of expansion, the installation of a roof space. Secondly, I would like to ask the Minister's opinion on how much he can support my suggestion that a reasonable ceiling would no longer be available for access to the bulk of the CSOK discount. Obviously, I do not want to support the construction of forks with HUF 200-300 million or the development of them in any way with the Hungarian taxpayers' money. We want to provide solutions to typical Hungarian life situations, and these are not. Thirdly, Minister, I saw coldly that persons with emigrated status, according to the existing announcement of some banks, could continue to use the CSOK. Please explain to me what professional reason there is for non-Hungarian citizens to benefit from this construction. I find this infuriating in itself, but in the light of government communication, it's blood-creeping, and it's questioning your communications. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-02-25-171	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga.
u2019-02-25-172	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Allow me, in a few words, to inform you of the steps we have taken and the results we have achieved since the introduction of the CSOK in July 2015. Well, they show that the government's goal is to get every family to their own home, because it ensures longer-term, stable housing, step by step. We are not yet at the end of the story, but we have achieved significant results in order to make it a realistic opportunity for all start-up couples in Hungary to obtain an independent apartment. Between July 2015 and January 2019, 97 thousand families with children and foster families helped to get their own home with the support of the family home creation discount of HUF 289 billion. The availability of state aid, the low interest rate environment and the sustained improvement in the employment and income situation of the population will also support the achievement of housing targets, and as a result of the six-year wage agreement, wage increases will also have a positive impact on the ability of young workers to obtain housing positions as easily as possible, i.e. to obtain a separate housing. With regard to your suggestions, may I inform you, honourable Member, that the so-called small-town or rural family home-building scheme announced this year has not yet been finalised by the government, and the framework for this has been set, which will be finalised in the next two weeks. The points that you have raised from the point of view of the real estate used, the sale above the limit and the business policy pursued by the banks will be examined by the government, and when we finalise the framework for the small settlement CSOK, I will be able to give you an accurate answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-25-173	Thank you, Minister. You have a one-minute rejoinder for the congressman.
u2019-02-25-174	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to thank Minister for his correctness, not only for the sake of fair professional dialogue, but also by passing on to the banks concerned the various ways of the CSOK which has been made available to immigrants, ensuring their travels, trying to pass on some responsibility, but I would remind you that it is a matter of government responsibility, so we demand, in the case of persons with immigrant status, that a similar form of discount should not be available. I would remind the Minister that we have always supported the expansion of the CSOK myself and my faction, but I would also like to remind him that when the state leg of housing savings was removed, many Hungarians who, let's say, managed to get a CSOK part of themselves together with their annual hard, hard work with the house savings. I am very pleased that the government is encouraging the support of families raising children, and I am doing the same, but they should exercise self-criticism in that, unfortunately, the number of living births has started to decline again, and the fertility index has also appeared to be halted, so it can be seen that the population disaster, the demographic winter, cannot be eliminated with only the money that has been drawn here. We need predictability, security, a rental program, a stable rental market, so there are a lot of conditions that Jobbik's package wants to solve. We are therefore not only asking you to do so, but we are demanding your openness. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-02-25-175	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Deputy Prime Minister.
u2019-02-25-176	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, There's been a misunderstanding. If you have been paying close attention to the programmes announced by CSOK, it is essential to have 180 days of insurance in relation to everyone who requires this type of support. So the government does not have such an explicit purpose, nor does it have any purpose at all, to provide support for any kind of immigration. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Here is the bank announcement!]] It is something else that the bank announces, Mr President, and what the government wants to achieve is something else; we will continue to do so in the future. As far as further opportunities are concerned, I think we should not forget that support for childbearing and child rearing remains a specific government goal. We have announced a family protection action, which will significantly help families with children: jobs are available, as one of the lowest unemployment rates in the European Union is added to this in addition to family protection measures. I think that this will significantly help families living and having children in Hungary. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.50]]
u2019-02-25-177	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Mr.Lőrinc Nacsa, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's an address. The Minister has appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. [[For signal:]] The congressman will take it. You have the floor.
u2019-02-25-178	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, In 2010, a family-friendly turnaround took place in Hungary, as the number one target of the austerity of governments between 2002 and 2010 was families raising children. After all, the family tax relief of one and two children was abolished first, the three-year-old child was taken away, and the home creation programs were also abolished. Since 2010, the government has taken a number of measures to protect and support Hungarian families. One of the most important of these is the family home-building discount, i.e. the introduction of the CSOK, which has already helped to create around 100,000 families, which was nearly HUF 280 billion. According to all research, the majority of Hungarians want to live in a house owned by themselves, which is why the high number of users and their expected growth are of particular importance. Since the introduction, the discount amounts have increased significantly since the introduction of HUF 10 million in support of large family members for the purchase or construction of a new apartment, and, most importantly, the eligibility conditions have also been simplified, so there has been an important bureaucracy reduction in the meantime. From 1 December 2018, families with two children can apply for a loan with a discount interest rate of HUF 10 million, and for three or more children the eligible amount will increase to HUF 15 million. Dear Secretary of State, KDNP has always paid particular attention to Hungarian families, which is why we consider the newly announced seven-point family protection action plan to be key. An important measure in relation to home creation is the extension of the interest-supported housing loan to customers as well as the extension of the support for mortgage loans. On this basis, I would like to ask, with respect, Mr Secretary, what are the experiences of the CSOK so far and what additional measures are being taken by the government to help families find homes. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-25-179	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2019-02-25-180	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We remember from 2002 the excellent sentence of Prime Minister Péter Medgyessy's candidates that creating a home is a good thing, we will expand it. The definition of the socialist dictionary was that it was completely dismantled between 2002 and 2004. The enlargement of the opposition, its support, its classification as a good thing not only refers to choice of words, but also to the fact that they will actually do the opposite. After all, in two years the entire home creation discount system was abolished, the state aid for housing loans was abolished, so the loan with a reduced interest rate was no longer available, the housing tax was doubled, the Socpol discount was also withdrawn from young people, and foreign exchange lending was offered as an alternative to this, leading to many, many thousands, many, tens of thousands of Hungarian families leading to huge problems. But not only did they provide intellectual ammunition, but also the LMP, even in the 2018 campaign, who also said that they would take away the benefit of the three children's family home, and not build houses and garden houses for Hungarian families, but rather live in gangly housing houses, and build such an opportunity for them, where they would not be owners, but they would rent something in the city. If we calculate how much the Socialists lost in three years by eliminating the home creation system, we see that 170 billion forints were taken from the pockets of Hungarian families in the first years after they came to power. Conversely, CSOK has already helped Hungarian families with HUF 189 billion in a few years since its introduction. For 97 thousand Hungarian families, a total of 395 thousand, i.e. nearly 400 thousand affected, parents, children, fathers, mothers [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] He was able to help little boys and girls. The CSOK has helped two large cities of people so far, and through expansion it will help more in the future. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-25-181	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressman has a one-minute rejoinder.
u2019-02-25-182	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr Secretary, for the answer. We can see that so far the measures of family policy and the current family protection action plan are being attacked from several sides by the opposition, as well as by foreign pro-immigration politicians with quite amazing arguments and styles. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] The Hungarian people have decided and asked us to support Hungarian families and create an environment where each couple can make their own decisions about having children, and where the desired children can always be born. The aim of Fidesz-KDNP is to create this environment, which is why we started on the family-friendly road in 2010, which is why we are preparing to adopt new measures on the family protection action plan, and therefore this is not a closed story, which is why we need to continue on the road. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-25-183	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder from the Secretary of State.
u2019-02-25-184	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The reason why we need to emphasise here is the courageous stand on the sovereignty of a government and immigration policy for the interests of the country, the nation, because we see that in countries where immigration is encouraged, where there is a pro-immigration government, let us say, when we look at Germany, they spend more on migration than on family support. In fact, adding up economic recovery, business development, family support, social expenditure is less than what is being spent on migration. The stakes are therefore not small, because if I look at the fact that we were able to help families with VAT refund of HUF 53 billion, the discount loan of HUF 10 million was requested by 15 thousand families for HUF 133 billion, these are large amounts. But if Hungary did not have a strong government for national interests, and as many others would have had a quota system, resettlement, migrant card and so on, Hungary would have bent its waist in this way, then these funds would now be spent on migration and not on Hungarian families. This is also at stake in the policy of the future, so that we can spend it on Hungarian families or on migration. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-25-185	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member Gyula Molnár, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister without a wallet responsible for the management of national assets an immediate question. It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr János Fónagy Secretary of State to respond in response to an urgent public mission. [[For signal:]] Congressman says he'll take it. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-02-25-186	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, In general, a power, but especially a power that is proud to centralize everything, centralize everything, and is able to solve the problem in practically every decision itself in the smallest case, is a measure of such power, in my view, how it can effectively achieve this kind of centralization in public services. You have made a decision to bring this matter to you, because it will make it better, cheaper and more operational. The fact is, only in the last few months, since the parliamentary holiday, new topics and new cases have come to light. We received a signal from many places that not even the Christmas tree had been moved until the end of January, early February. We see that at the end of the year, with a government decree, this company received further substantial sums, and then, when its data was released, they replaced the entire staff. We have also read an ombudsman's report, where the Ombudsman said that it is not a right, but an obligation to deliver the bill to the citizens in good time to this company. So the question remains, Mr. Secretary of State... They attribute to Paul of Királyhegy that he supposedly wrote a telegram to Stalin, saying that the system did not work, and that he should change it. It is said that the telegram itself does not exist, but Paul Királyhegyi was deported because of it. I ask you, Minister of State, that the system did not work, and if you could also say a few words about what it did for 16 and 17 billion forints, which you said in a letter at the end of the year was spent on implementing a waste management plan and on temporary expenditure. So once again, wankering, what's next? Thank you very much.
u2019-02-25-187	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2019-02-25-188	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I think we agree that in all public services, especially household waste, which affects 4 million households, it is essential to ensure the safety of the service; two, its affordability; and the third, that those who carry out the service will receive the compensation. [[15.00]] The security of the service has previously been handled by hundreds of organisations, with very different costs and very different fees. This partly resulted in social and partly local injustices, so the government really decided to centralise this activity. Centralization has created security of supply, and I think that is the most important, since Naples's syndrome has not taken place, and apart from the failure of one or two otherwise politically oriented organisations, domestic waste has been removed. Where not, only the removal of selected waste resulted in a disruption. The other was affordability. We've secured this by reducing the overhead. The third is to get the fees to the service provider. That was a real disturbance, and we didn't deny it before. This is why the supervision of the company has been transferred to another place, which is why we have replaced the management, and that is why it was necessary to stress temporarily: temporarily put money into the company, so that its smooth operation can be maintained in the past, present and future. Currently supply is stable [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] service providers receive their money. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-02-25-189	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder for the congressman.
u2019-02-25-190	Thank you very much. Very interesting. I myself thought the same way about looking at the same problem from the people's side that I raised, and you tried to answer it. The question is, indeed, to take away the trash. It is also important that they receive the bill in such a way that they are able to pay. Someday, Mr State Secretary, from a historical perspective, we will look back on the long-term impact of the reduction of the rent on the Hungarian public service, whether it is garbage transport or, say, district heating or even sewerage services, but it is really affordable. I have to say that from this point of view, you have created a system that I use temporarily because it will have significance for not performing its function. It is very important, Mr State Secretary, that in the coming years we want and will continue to deal with it, because I would like to define how long it can be taken in the case of the Fidesz government. I hope not for decades. Thank you.
u2019-02-25-191	Thank you, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Secretary of State.
u2019-02-25-192	Honourable Congressman, The shipment of waste is a weekly, maximum of two weeks' work, so here are historical time horizons, I admit, I can't outline it, we're thinking about periods of two weeks a week. In these periods, however, the current organisation, the current coordinating body, is doing its job and guarantees that waste is delivered at an affordable price. The billing of public service charges has been restored, so I can speak here in the past tense. The work on delays is ongoing and I am convinced that this will be completed within a closed deadline. So from this point of view, I think that there is no need to think about historical perspectives. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-02-25-193	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Five of our fellow Members have indicated that they would like to speak after the agenda in a five-minute timeframe. First, I give the floor to our Fidesz colleague Zsolt Becsó: he wishes to address the agenda with the title of 'Cooperation'.
u2019-02-25-194	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The former socialist city Salgótarján was once a thriving mining town, a heavy industrial center, which lived in its prime in the 1960s and 1970s. The change of regime, however, meant a serious setback for the city. The once patina factories, with the exception of the stove factory, have stopped, and industrial activity has dropped dramatically. The city's sustainability has been weakened, and the migration from the city has been ongoing for almost two decades now. The city, some 50,000, now has about 35,000 inhabitants. In the last 29 years, except for the 2006-2010 cycle, when the socialist government actually punished the then-fidesz-led city, there was always a social or economic catching-up programme, assistance, special support. These government interventions were the appointed meeting of the Antall Government and then its special support, the Free Entrepreneurship Area of Salgótarján-Bátonyterenye, the Orbán Government and then the Medgyessy Government's support to the most disadvantaged counties, and then the debt consolidation of the second Orbán government were all important steps to speed up the catch-up. Although there were no doubt results, it was not possible to achieve the success of the troubles. This is why it was particularly welcome that from 2014 a new era could start in Salgótarján's life, because despite the political differences, the government has indeed given the city an outstanding opportunity. First of all, the county seat in Nógrád benefited in the order of HUF 9.2 billion from the largest regional development operational programme source. Then, at the end of 2016, the city received some remarkable news, as the government decided to provide the municipality with HUF 1.5 billion in free use development resources. Thirdly, on 21 March 2017, the agreement was concluded between the Prime Minister and the mayor, and the tens of billions of modern cities were also launched, with a connection to which the HUF 1 billion project preparation funding was soon received into the city's account. If we add that in recent years the city has received an extraordinary operating grant of HUF 652 million, and more than HUF 4.5 billion in development aid for the development of the companies Mitsuba, Salgglas, Micropakk and Wamsler SE, then we can safely say that the government has not abandoned Salgótarján, and has even given support beyond all previous cycles. Despite the outstanding help, however, Salgótarján still has the worst results in almost all indicators in comparing county-righted cities. Seeing the present state of the city, knowing that it is unable to deal with the worsening urban problems on its own, further decorated government attention and support are needed as a bite of bread for the city. In view of this, it raises interesting questions primarily from the people in the city about the significance of the opposition to the government announced by the city's DK and MSZP leaders at a protest in January. Who would benefit from this attitude? In the present state of the city, can the socialist city administration afford to slap the hand of help to him, provoke the vulnerable to resistance, constantly rebel against the government? In my judgment and in the opinion of many city dwellers, this is irresponsible behaviour. The development of Salgótarján, but the whole of East Nógrád, the creation of a viable city and region must be a common issue. And the joint case assumes cooperation, a number of issues of common thinking, a lot of issues of cooperation. Anyone who proclaims opposition and acts on it harms the city and abuses people's trust. In spite of political differences, however, the focus on cooperation is on helping the local community to thrive with a clear conscience. The long-term interest of a city must be overwritten by some party politicians, in this case some local left-wing politicians, with a desire for power, in their short-term political interests. And Salgótarján wants to live again. Like other successful cities, he is interested not in increasing conflicts, but in finding solutions together. We choose cooperation because it is in Salgótarján's interest. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-02-25-195	Thank you very much, Congressman Zsolt Becsó. János Stummer's Jobbik Member applied for a post-meeting speech... [[For signal:]] They switched, I'm sorry, we'll switch, I've got something else on the paper. So I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpát, right-hander, for how long? He said that he had spoken after the agenda. [[15.10]]
u2019-02-25-196	Mr President, Dear House, In the midst of many slides, lies, and negative energy of today's Parliamentary sitting, there was no mention of a very, very important subject, which is the image of Hungary, which is described by my fellow Member Ander Balázs as a sinking Atlantis, and I use the term demographic winter myself. We are referring to the fact that, although the government is fond of promoting the importance of demographic issues in Hungary, it does not seem to face the fact that the number of live births has fallen again, as the fertility ratio ratio has also started to decline in recent months, at least on the basis of the latest available data. All this is compounded by the emigration spiral that this government does not want to slow down, but, unfortunately, lets it spin. We were talking about the CSOK, and we mentioned that a lot of our fellow countrymen could collect the part they needed for the CSOK through the house savings through years of work. Compared to this, Fidesz-KDNP has also abolished this system without replacing it with anything, so any available form of savings for young Hungarians. The emigration spiral also seems to be accelerating because we do not have a rental program in Hungary, in an incomprehensible way, or the settlement of the rental market has not come to the fore in recent years. The government moves like a lousy duck in this area. The thing is, he didn't even have any action attempts, let's say, on the rental market. I'm interested in a professional response to why not. We can also see that our entire region is characterised by brutal emigration. In 2008, only 4.2 million Central and Eastern Europeans lived in another European country, typically in Western European countries, this is very visible from the recent G7 analysis, but by 2017, while the number of people in Europe has decreased, the number of immigrants from the region has already increased to 7.6 million. The Government of Hungary is fond of telling us that good, good, many are emigration from Hungary, but more from the surrounding countries. There are two things to that. On the one hand, if the other patients around us die and, in our patient's case, the limbs are amputated, we will not necessarily be happier. I would like both Hungary and the countries of the region to be able to take a sustainable demographic path, but this cannot be said for any country in the region. On the other hand, if we look at Czech data, we see that they are much better in this regard than we are, so the emigration spiral is far from that strong, and there are actually only two countries where data are significantly less favourable than in Hungary, so it is much more than a 1-2 percent error margin, that is Bulgaria and Romania. It can therefore be said that, while according to the most conservative statistics in 2010, 215 thousand Hungarians lived in other European countries, and many times in Hungary family members and connectors do not declare themselves or cancel their place of residence, by 2017, this figure has increased by another 300,000 people, according to the most careful estimates. And not only does the Government of Hungary have no response to this, but it tries to set it as a natural process, which may partly have a basis, but it is quite certain that this government is not trying to raise any counter-force, I say once again, neither in the form of a rental program, nor by increasing the state support for ltps, nor, let us say, by extending the amount of support available to used real estates to a wider extent. We have come to the point that, in ten years, and so during your administration, the number of Hungarians in Germany has typically increased more than three times. We also see that only in 2018, the number of registered Hungarians working in the Austrian workplace increased by 6 percent, so we are talking only about a one-year increase, while in some sectors Hungarians earn less than Turkish migrant workers, while Swiss data was the most sobering, where relatively few Hungarians are found. At the same time, in 2010 only 80 percent of them planned to stay out of the long term only in large quotes, and now 90 percent plan to do so by 2017-2018. So the vast majority of those on the outside are out of their minds to come home, and this is the real national disaster, this is the real tragedy, and we should change it together, with national minimums, with a rental program, with the extension of the CSOK, not by abolishing the state aid for housing pre-emptions, but by extending it, and with family support commitments that all governments respect, not just from the upper middle class. And most importantly, within the tax system, it should not be tolerated that the VAT content of children's education articles should be highest in all of Europe, because the latter is a disgrace and a disgrace! Therefore, a change must be made in the middle of a demographic winter for the spring to come. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-02-25-197	Thank you, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Péter Hoppál, Member of the Fidesz Group, asked for a post-meeting speech on the memory of the victims of communism entitled Pécs. You have the floor, Congressman, within a five-minute time frame.
u2019-02-25-198	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, On the Memorial Day of the Victims of Communism, I would like to give a closer look at how the commemoration of the victims of dictatorship that began on this day 72 years ago with the removal of the independent Secretary-General of Small Farmers, Béla Kovács, by the Soviet authorities, is today in the birthplace of Béla Kovács, Pécs. Béla Kovács is one of the symbolic, emblematic victims of the communist dictatorship that affected and affected all Hungarian families, who served as the national secretary-general and parliamentary representative of the Independent Kis Farmer Party, and, as such, was protected by immunity. Yet, the Communists of that time, ignoring constitutional order and the laws in force, had the Soviet troops drag the leading pro-government representative away. It was a typical story back then. The priors of the far-left red dictatorship, without any legal procedure, on a class basis or on a direct predecessor, like the Nazis, should think of the Shvabs on a racial basis, engaged in a conceptual trial, executed or dragged hundreds of thousands of Hungarians to the Gulag-Gupvi camps, mostly civilians, of whom one third never returned. Béla Kovács, a small economic politician, was born in 1908 in the Kisparaszt family, in Patacson, now belonging to Pécs. This is why we Pécs consider the loyalty, standing, and example of Béla Kovács's important historical political heritage, which we consider to be an important task for posterity. Dear House, In order to better understand the Pécs' increased sensitivity to freedom, including Béla Kovács' role after 45, we need to look up the pages of the site history of 100 years ago. For few people, it is known that Pécs almost became a waste of the post-WWI divisions, since between 1918 and 21 the city had been disconnected from Hungary for 33 months and was under Serbian occupation. As a result of the Trianon decision, the city of Pécs should have been returned to Hungary in 920. However, since there were large numbers of government refugees in Pécs collaborating with Serb occupations in 1919, who did everything to prevent Pécs from returning to Hungary, which had already led by Horthy, because then they had to answer for their actions during the Red Terror, and with their last efforts to slow down the Serbian withdrawal, they even declared a single puppet state and tried everything. However, as the Hungarian troops entered in August 21, North Baranya and Pécs returned to the bosom of Hungary. After such precedents, between the two wars in the thirties, Béla Kovács walked the ranks as a healthy-looking peasant politician. Annex II is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. During World War II, he was an activist of the anti-Nazi independence movement, i.e. his desire for freedom was first formulated against the Nazi type of brown dictatorship. In 45 he was already the National Secretary General of the Kiskazda Party and was appointed political secretary of state, and then he obtained his seat at the National Assembly elections. In spite of the risk of his life, however, he took up anti-Nazi activity, as he also opposed the other red dictatorship and the presence of the Soviets in Hungary, he became the first conceptual target of the communist dictatorship in 1947. His abduction to the Soviet Union, his prison years in Moscow, weren't solved even at Stalin's death in 1953. He was only transferred to a prison in Hungary in 55, from which he was released in April 56. The nine years of detention have been very hard on her health. During the revolution of 56 he was involved in the reconstruction of the Kisgazda Party, became Minister of Agriculture and State of the Revolutionary Government, but died in 59, at the age of 51. Last year, with the support of the Hungarian Government and the Gulág Memorial Committee, the municipality of Pécs rebuilt its home house from nearly HUF 50 million. In recent months, the memorial house has become one of the most important pilgrimage sites of the victims of communism, showing the traumas of the Rákosi, Kádár era on the body of Hungary. [[15.20]] Because you have to tell your youth the truth. That is why I am glad that today I was able to attend the memorial ceremony in Pécs at Béla Kovács Elementary School, which bears his name, where they pay tribute to their names every year with decent and worthy, high-quality memorial programmes. Because there is no soft dictatorship. There are no small sins. The world's largest human sacrifice system, Communism, has left 100 million dead, including Hungarians. The 714 executed, the hundreds of fire victims, the tens of thousands of political prisoners, hundreds of thousands of people dragged to the Soviet Union, the displaced, culached, raped, observed, all of the victims of psychological terror say: No more terror in Hungary, no more dictatorship of foreign powers, no more right, left, Nazi or communist dictatorship! [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-25-199	Thank you, Congressman. After the agenda, Mr Csaba Nagy, Fidesz Group, has applied for a post- Agenda speech: . He has an outstanding tourist development opportunity with the title Harkány and South Baranya. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-02-25-200	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I applied to speak because, in recent years, significant decisions have been made in the lives of both the government and the Baranya County Municipality, as Harkány is a high-priority city in our southern region, since in the year 1823 a Gyüdi serf was the lucky man, János Pogány, who was the first to report about health improvement in Harkány's medicinal water. The construction started in Harkany in 1824. The first written reports about the medicinal water appeared in 1825 and in 1866 Hungary's first Heviz well was drilled here, which was about 38 metres deep, and the water reached the surface with a temperature of 62 degrees. Unfortunately, World War I also affected this bathing culture, as there has been a further deterioration in the area of the spa in the area of the Serbian occupation. In 1925 the first real development started, then a pool of 2,000 square meters of water was waiting for those who wanted to heal. In 1928 between the county seat, the city of Pécs and Harkány took five pairs of trains a day and brought visitors who wanted to heal. Then the time passed, just seventy years ago the bath was nationalized, in 56 it was transferred to the county municipality, and in 2006, unfortunately, a county president and city mayor under the influence of an agreement under the influence of an agreement between the county president and the city mayor agreed that ownership would be transferred to the city in connection with a financial agreement that could not be called lucky. As a result, the Hungarian government had to consolidate the city by more than HUF 4.5 billion between 2011 and 2014, walking into the usual foreign currency loan trap. Also during the same period, the hospital gave jobs to more than 300 citizens and was able to borrow a half billion forints of foreign currency-based credit for thousands of people. Thanks to the Hungarian government, the hospital was able to complete this loan by 2018 and thus stabilise its operation. But why I asked for the floor: I asked for the floor because the government has been able to support the development several times, with HUF 215 million in 2014, HUF 300 million in 2015, HUF 1 billion in 2016 and HUF 48 million last year. From this, the Lepke children's pool, the slide park, the children's experience pool and roof renovations could be carried out. The project that will allow winter baths in the Harkány spa is ongoing. I have to say that this is now recognised by the visiting tourists by their own purchases and by extending the time they have spent here, as the number of guests who have spent a night of business tax has increased to more than 250 thousand nights. These developments are complemented by the road safety development that will enable the construction of a circular concept in the city. The famous Zsigmondy promenade will be able to renew more than a billion forints, there will be a kindergarten and kindergarten renovation worth 100 million forints, and finally a new leg can be launched within the city as the Harkány people will be able to spend nearly 400 million forints to develop the industrial area. The stock market will also be renewed. At the end of last year, the Hungarian government decided on a three-stage support system, with a further development resource of HUF 3.8 billion. In 2019, 2020 and 2021, this amount will be allocated to the construction work of the Harkány bath and to the development of development ideas. Finally, I would like to conclude by saying that both the mayor, the board and, I think, all citizens in Harkány are working to bring about the development of the city and not just the city, because the workers in the area will also be able to find a home, work and livelihood in these developments. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-25-201	Thank you, Congressman Csaba Nagy. Dear Parliament, János Stummer, Member of the Jobbik Group, asked to speak after the agenda. The title of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences on government management. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-02-25-202	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, Government politicians are heirs of enlightened rationalism. Christian Democrats from the KIS Secretary and top secret officers are truly progressive. They are progressing with age, as we are being lectured at home from right-wingness and the Westerners from democracy. In fact, now it seems that they have a better knowledge of science management than scientists do. Ladies and gentlemen, During the historical cataclysms, our Academy suffered a number of shocks, even its disappearance occurred in 1949. Finally, the Communists involved him in the power of state, he was also given an administrative function, and he was able to survive. The research institute network currently under discussion gradually switched to a truly Soviet model since the 1950s. However, research institutes, especially natural science research institutes, have, with a small number of exceptions, not political, but world-class research work to date. The results obtained there are incontrovertible. Anyone who says otherwise is either stupid or lying. Among the normal members of the Academy, where the average age is well over 70, there are certainly some of the old days who sit in the chair in which they are sitting without merit. However, the research institutes are young and the mid-generation works. Their average age is under 45 years. The present and future of our country is being shaped in these institutions. By reading the fidesz media, however, man's blood boils. Accusing the Hungarian Academy of Sciences of communist, anti-national activity is false and evil. As early as 1989, the public body rehabilitated the members of the Communists who were unfairly deprived of their membership. [[15.30]] In 1994, the Antall-Boross government passed a law in which it settled the status of the Academy and cleared the structure of the pro-state functions, whereas the Fidesz faction has more post-communist, careerist wind cocks than the system's left-wing opposition combined. Ladies and Gentlemen, Is the institutional system of Hungarian science working perfectly? Obviously not. Is there anything to reform? Of course I do. Science, however, is a subsystem where processes cannot be continuously optimised and combined as battering rams. Careful and careful changes are needed to avoid more damage than benefits. Allow me to quote some thoughts from Károly Mike, one of the leading economists at Corvinus University. In recent days, he published an excellent study in the Answer:. The Conservatives need to know that those who destroy the still imperfect but existing orders of reason will for a long time plunge their community into spiritual darkness. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. A politician who thinks that the institutional system of Hungarian science can be transformed as a machine line in the brake factory is a huge mistake. Spiritual work is always an individual process, only in a predictable, stable, undisturbed spiritual environment. If there is no stability, no predictability, no spiritual work can be done, because when one is anxious about the future, inspiration and endurance are lost. Jobbik's politicians aren't the only ones who recognize that. We are convinced that in the current scientific system, in the existing institutional structures of higher education and research, successful and lasting changes, at the same time for the future, can only be made through thoughtful preparation and reflection with the involvement of stakeholders. It is also stated in the resolution of the Christian Association of Intellectuals. Ladies and gentlemen, What is happening now from the Fidesz government is not a science policy, but improvisation and voluntarism. Would your government have been authorized to do this by two-thirds? I hardly think so. Independence for the Academy, freedom for our researchers, stability and tranquility for our scientists to do their job in peace and depth! Jobbik stands for the independence of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-02-25-203	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the next Spring Session is expected to take place on 4 March 2019. I thank you for your work, and I wish you a restful day. The meeting's closed.
