u2019-11-22-0	Dear Parliament, Please take your seats. The 13th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, you will receive the help of Attila Gelencsér and Bence Tordai. I welcome everyone who is monitoring the work of the Parliament today. The general discussion of the bill between the Government of Hungary and the Secretariat of the Cooperation Council of the Turk-speaking States on the publication of the headquarters agreement on the Hungarian Representation Office of the Cooperation Council of the Turk-speaking States until closure. The government referral is T/8000. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, the author of the item on the agenda.
u2019-11-22-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I respectfully welcome you. The European Union has recently adopted its strategy for the development of new relations in Central Asia. There is a serious reflection in the European Union on how to build a closer cooperation with this rapidly expanding and developing region of the world than is currently the case. The European Commission and the European External Action Service have also appointed a special representative for this task, who currently has an obligation to establish as close cooperation as possible between Central Asian countries and the European Union. Central Europe is also playing its part in this networking process. In this way, last year we held the Visegrád Four and the five Central Asian countries' Foreign Ministers meeting here in Budapest. An important and strong organisation of these Central Asian countries and Turkey is the Cooperation Council of the Turk-speaking States, whose work will be monitored both in Brussels and here in Budapest. The strengthening of cultural, commercial, educational and economic relations is clearly a Hungarian interest, but it is also in our security interest to strengthen relations, given that these countries play a very important role in the fight against terrorism in the Central Asian region, as well as in the fight against the spread of extremist ideologies. Not to mention that if we look more closely at the energy security and energy supply map of the European Union and the Central European region, we can see that, as our allies are less enthusiastic about doing the diversification homework, we may have to use gas sources in Central Asia to a greater extent than has happened in the coming years. One of the first stages of this will be at the end of November, when the Transanatolian pipeline will be handed over to Turkey, which will be the most important transit pipeline from gas fields in Central Asia to the South East European region, from which the use of gas sources is a realistic opportunity for Central Europe. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The Turkish-speaking States Cooperation Council was established in October 2009 with the Nahichecheva Declaration. The Turk Council currently has five permanent members. In addition to Turkey, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan as of October this year. These are all countries with which the European Union already has cooperation. The European Union signed the enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement with Kazakhstan in 2015, the European Union's partnership and cooperation agreement with Azerbaijan has been in place since 1996 and a new comprehensive strategic partnership agreement is currently being prepared. An EU Partnership and Cooperation Agreement has been in place with Kyrgyzstan since 1999, as has Uzbekistan, and the European Union External Action Service has been negotiating with both countries on the modernisation and extension of this agreement. Hungary received observer status in the Turkish Council in September 2018, and we also became observers at the International Turk Academy last year, and this year we joined the Turk Culture and Heritage Foundation. But you Members of Parliament have already started this cooperation long before, given that the Hungarian Parliament has been involved in the work of the Turkish Parliamentary Assembly since 2014 for five years now. In addition, our contact system extends to an educational area. The University of Szeged was accepted into the union of Turk universities this year in April, so cooperation on scientific, research, educational student and teacher exchanges also received another opportunity. In addition, a Chamber of Commerce and Industry of the Turk Council has been established, as well as an investment fund that provides market entry support for small and medium-sized enterprises in this area. The Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry also initiated observer status in addition to the Chamber of Industry and Trade of the Turk Council. In addition, the organisation launched a serious training programme, which provides European diplomats and diplomats in Central Asia. We are, of course, involved in this programme. In view of the fact that the members of the Türk Council, each one of them, have had a significant and modernisation and extensive cooperation with the European Union, and given that the largest country, Turkey, has been working closely with the European Union in a number of fields for many years to say otherwise, the European Union has put its own security in the hands of the Turkish President by concluding with Turkey an agreement on the retention of Syrian refugees, while not doing much to protect its own borders in recent years, so that Turkey and the other four Member States are working closely with the European Union, the Türk Council has decided to establish a European representation of the Turkish Council, the location of which Budapest has been elected. On 19 September this year, a memorandum of understanding was signed here in Budapest at the Council of Foreign Ministers of the Turkish Council, and then, as is usually the case for all international organisations, a headquarters agreement was concluded. [[9.10]] It was not so difficult that, fortunately, many international organisations here in Budapest, including a significant number of UN specialised agencies, maintain regional or global offices or service centres. Thus, the headquarters agreement for the offices of international organisations in Budapest had to be based on, which was not a complicated task. Thus, the headquarters agreement was concluded at the summit of Heads of State and Government of the Turk Council in Baku on 15 October. The document was signed by me on the Hungarian side and by its Secretary-General on the part of the Turkish Council. The provisions of the headquarters agreements with international organisations established in Hungary have therefore been taken into account in this document. In this agreement, we set out the elements of international public law which ensure the legal status of the European representation of the Turk Council and the officials working there. I would like to inform you that the European representative office is led by a Hungarian diplomat, János Hóvári, our former Ambassador to Ankara, a professor of European reputation. The operation of the office looks to be the work of two staff from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, and each Member State sends two delegates, and the Secretary-General of the Turkish Council will also have a delegate. So, overall, the office and representation will work with 13 employees at the end when it will operate in its full capacity. On the spot, the European representation of the Turkish Council is also located on Budakeszi Road. Dear Parliament, I ask you to support the bill before you, since Parliament's right and Parliament's right give the law the right to approve or ratify documents which constitute an international treaty. I respectfully ask the Parliament to support the bill that has been tabled. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-22-2	Thank you, Minister. The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Barna Pál Sigismund, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2019-11-22-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary launched the Eastern opening policy in 2010, as it was clear that the pace of the great global economic change was dictated from the east as much as from the west. The pursuit of balanced political cooperation proved to be right, because mutual respect-based relationships provide the opportunity for Hungarian companies to have as many business opportunities as possible in the eastern economies and to cultivate our common historical and cultural roots. The external trade activity with the region is no better demonstrated than the fact that trade flows between Hungary and the member states of the Turk Council have doubled over the past ten years and reached four billion dollars. The Hungarian Eximbank has opened a EUR 577 million credit line for the Member States of the Turkish Council, this amount can be used jointly by the region's entrepreneurs and Hungarian entrepreneurs. Modern pharmaceuticals, the health industry, the oil industry, water management, logistics and construction are areas where Hungarian companies are gaining more market opportunities and are increasingly successful in these fast-growing economies. We are active in the work of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of the Turk Council. As regards our educational relations, 705 scholarships are currently studying at universities in Hungary from the Turk Council countries, and we hope to increase the number of students studying here in the future. The close historical and cultural relationship between Hungary and the Member States of the Turkish Council is therefore indisputable. It was an important milestone in the Eastern opening policy, as the Minister said, on 3 September 2008, when we joined the Turkish Council as observers. After that, the representative office opened its doors in Budapest on 19 September 2019. The seat agreement concluded with the Secretariat of the Organisation at the Baku Summit of the Turk Council on 15 October 2019 shall settle the legal status of the Office and shall determine the exemptions and privileges granted to officials of the Member States. There is no point in the debate launched by the opposition, under which the office and its staff may pose a risk to national security. It's a general practice, and we can't talk about special treatment. This international treaty also states that privileges and immunities are not granted for the personal benefit of those working there, but for the independent performance of the office's tasks. The Council of Foreign Ministers of the Council of Turk is entitled and obliged to waive the immunity of any member of staff in so far as he considers immunity to be an obstacle to justice. The persons benefiting from the exemptions are therefore obliged to respect the laws of our country and not to engage in any professional or commercial activity in Hungary for personal gain, except for scientific, educational and artistic activities. It is important to point out that the opening up of the representative office of the Turk Council in Hungary helps Member States to connect to Europe and to the European Union and supports the development of cooperation between the Council and European countries and international institutions in Europe. With this step, we have made the Hungarian capital the European base of another major international organisation. Fidesz supports the bill and I also ask for the support of my fellow Members. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-22-4	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Anita Potocsány Kőrösi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2019-11-22-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, I would like to introduce the T/8000 to the Jobbik Group. Opinion of the European Parliament and of the Council on the Proposal for a Regulation on the protection of individuals with regard to the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data. Shortly after the 2010 election, the government announced the Eastern opening policy. This policy culminated in the opening of national trading houses, which were all closed in 2018, with the exception of Turkey, since they failed badly: they made losses of more than nine billion. It was also one of the hotbeds of corruption. It seems that the Eastern opening is now being attempted by the Turkish-speaking United States Cooperation Council. Let's see what exactly this organization is. The Cooperation Council of the Turk-speaking States was established in October 2009 in Nahichchevan, with current members Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Turkey and Uzbekistan. The aim of the organisation is to strengthen cooperation between Turk-speaking states in all areas of life, from economic to military, and from this year onwards, intelligence is also involved. And here we have reached the headquarters planned for Hungary, which is also the subject of this bill. The whole proposal is hauntingly similar to the International Investment Bank, which some of the public call only the Russian spy bank law. The planned headquarters have virtually diplomatic immunity, since it is impossible to search and seize objects, no judicial body can interfere with their work unless they give up their immunity. They are completely exempt from all taxes and duties, the tax on real estate is paid by Hungarian taxpayers, the workers in the building and their families are virtually untouchable. [[9.20]] We are now protesting the practice of granting such privileges to foreign organizations and persons under suspicious circumstances. However, you, at the head of Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, seem to be doing everything in your power to gain some red dots in these countries. They made a promise in the Turk Council that if we manage to obtain the portfolio of enlargement in the European Commission, they will seek close partnerships with Azerbaijan, and the issue of Turkish membership will be dealt with as a priority so as not to mention the lies related to Kip only to the municipality. It is disappointing to see that, as they keep moving away from Western values and the European Union, they are growing closer and closer to the eastern autocrat leaders. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-22-6	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2019-11-22-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, In his speech, Mr Orbán led our policy. That's all right, I'll go over the rest of the details later. On the part of KDNP we support the bill before us and the establishment agreement of the Türk Council office in Budapest. This, in our view, is a guarantee and predictability for the functioning of the European representation of the countries of the Turk Council. We support the foreign policy of the Hungarian government, which is based on a thousand years of practice. For a thousand years, this foreign policy has been about being a link between the Western and Eastern worlds. This is the most important foreign policy role in the world, and we must work on peaceful, beneficial cooperation between the West and the East. Today there are huge and powerful changes in the world, a new fourth industrial revolution and a new world order. These changes can be unrecognized, not taken into account, we can pretend that Europe is omnipotent, that it can solve everything, as the opposition claims, but that is a lie. In this transforming world, we Hungarians want to be successful and can be successful by realizing our own interests. Our thousand years of historical practice, that we have always been a connecting country between the West and the East, we can take advantage of this role in the new world order. Our goal is for the East and the West to cooperate on the basis of mutual respect. Because of cooperation between the West and the East, Hungary's position is therefore significant. We can be proud that the Turkish Council has opened its European representation in Budapest. We can only benefit from the fact that the Turk Council, a group of countries with nearly 150 million people, wishes to connect with European nations and Europe through us, through Hungarians. We support the foreign policy of the Hungarian government, which is finally not the, let us dare be small! He is thinking about a spirited, compromiseable, non-conceptual policy, but he represents the foreign policy of being Hungarians, and this is the idea that, on the basis of mutual respect, we should strive for useful partnerships with everyone, and that we should make our partners interested in Hungarian national success. One of the successes of Hungarian foreign policy is the strategy for Eastern opening. We also have excellent economic cooperation, strategic and trade relations with the countries of the Turk Council. My fellow Member, Mr Zsigmond, has already told me about the scholarships here, the 705 young people who come here every year and study here. I think it's an extremely useful resource. The Ministry has several strategies to track these young people later in an alumni system, and we can also use their relationships, their later positions, to represent Hungarian interests. I would like to draw your attention to this, and it is extremely important that students from Turk countries who come home from this country also help the Hungarian nation to prevail at home. I think it is a big deal that we can be a European gate, it is a big deal that finally Hungarian foreign policy is about what is most important, the Hungarian national interest. We need to balance our Eastern and Western partners. We have a completely clear federal system within NATO and the European Union, but it is also in our interest to find, in the voice of respect, the beneficial opportunities for cooperation with Hungary. I would also like to say to my fellow Member, Mr Jobbik, that what I have seen here are the privileges and immunities, well, I have looked at and I have not seen in your programme, for example, a demonstration before UN offices, about the privileges or diplomatic immunity of a regional or global United Nations office here; or about the headquarters of other international organisations in Budapest. They're standard agreements, they're all the same. If an international organisation brings its headquarters here and wants to open representation here, then these rules apply to it under international treaties. You didn't protest in front of the UN offices, so don't pretend that something special is happening right now. KDNP supports the bill, please do the same. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-22-8	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Zita Gurmai, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2019-11-22-9	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, The bill on the representation of the Turk Council in our country is getting more and more publicity. The state of the office is increasingly concerned with domestic public opinion, so I would also like to clarify the position of the Hungarian Socialist Party. I would like to summarise the points of the proposal that concern us most. The office's assets, its assets, are considered sacred and inviolable. It shall be exempted from any other intervention or procedure of any official body. For example, the Hungarian authorities can only enter the premises of the office with the permission of the Executive Director. The official correspondence and other documents of the office are also inviolable. Similar exemptions apply to office staff. Therefore, workers are free from the proceedings of Hungarian jurisdiction in respect of their oral and written statements and all other official activities. Our country covers the Office's budget annually, including its maintenance, operating costs and the salary of its local staff. The office is exempt from all direct and indirect and all customs and additional financial obligations and taxes. The public property tax on premises is also paid by the host country. I find it quite amazing that government policy so sensitive to national security does not for the first time confer such a special status on foreign organisations and their employees. These countries can practically build a bridge station in the heart of the country without the Hungarian authorities having any opportunity to control it. It is a less important question, but let us also say a few words about the financial burden of the office. It is natural for the Hungarian state to finance diplomacy in Hungary as a host country. But as far as I know, the Turk Council has an embassy in Budapest. They are well suited to maintain the cooperation highlighted in the reasoning of the proposal. I am aware that the European Union's organisations in our country are also financed by the Hungarian State. However, in the case of European integration, we are still talking about an alliance of which we are members, and so our resulting obligations are completely different. At the same time, I would like to avoid even the appearance of a misunderstanding, my speech is not directed at the people of the Turk Council, but at the protection of domestic interests. Due to the geopolitical situation of our country, it is necessary to establish a fair relationship with all its partners from abroad. However, I have agreed to this equal distance from different parties or, if you will, equal proximity. If it is justified, I can, of course, accept it if a particularly important diplomatic partner takes precedence. However, in the case of the Turkic countries, there is no reason to do so. Perhaps I note, as a token of my somewhat exaggerated goodwill, that I have done my best to find these specifics. First, I called for a justification for the bill before us. I was surprised to learn that I rarely meet a shorter, more meaningless text in the Hungarian Parliament. Technically, I couldn't find any tangible sentences of persuasion in the document. It is not often the case that even less words are wasted on detailed justification than in the general part, but this has also happened now. However, it is a more important issue than taking this matter so frivolously. The Hungarian Parliament certainly deserves much more respect. The general justification also describes a great deal of interest, with which Hungary follows the cooperation of peoples with Turkish identity. The next sentence is about the increasingly important role of the members of the Turk Council in the life of our country. I don't know who you're kidding, but I'm pretty sure you're not gonna make it. Even vivid attention is, to put it mildly, just a sound, in fact, without any basis. From a national point of view, the inclusion of marginal Kyrgyzstan and Kazakhstan relations as increasingly important can be seen as no more than a political illusion. The rest of this justification does not bring us any closer to understanding the proposal. Although the opening of the East is already in large prints, it is still difficult to see it as an own name, as an independent national strategy. Unfortunately, the few paragraphs mentioned do not correspond to the title at all, because they do not contain any justification, reason or even any rational idea at all. [[9.30]] Of course, we do not deny the importance of good relations with our partners east of the European Union, but at the same time our King Saint Stephen knew that the future of our country depends more on developed Western relations. I would also like this priority not to be overwritten by the Government of Viktor Orbán. Since the draft legislation did not help, I tried to draw it from other sources, so I asked the Prime Minister himself on Monday. However, hearing the Prime Minister's words, I was deeply disappointed that our concerns regarding the privileged position of the Turkish Council representation had been answered with surprise. As a high school of double-talk, we heard that the law of the country applies to everyone, and that the costs of foreign representations are typically borne by the host State. With his instructive tone, the Prime Minister did not just add that there was nothing to see here. When I noted that the answer was not very reassuring, I received an open attack in return. Regardless of the specific case, we heard that there is Nagykunság and Kiskunság in Hungary, and we have been mocking the inhabitants of these settlements with kun ascendants for weeks. I reject this baseless accusation as strongly as possible. With this rudeness, he showed only unbelievable lack of quality. It is simply that the Hungarian Prime Minister has run out of every argument and, in his need, tries to make his political opponents look hateful, diverting attention from the fact that he does not have a sensible response in the political debate. I felt that there was no more when the Prime Minister was already at the parallel with anti-Semitism. There is absolutely no further interpretation of the bill, when this is all the way from the Prime Minister himself. I'm afraid we're gonna have to look for the real drivers somewhere else. So far, no one has been able to demonstrate the national interest to support the approach of the Turk Council. So it can only be concluded that this is more in the interest of Viktor Orbán's political aspirations, and the two are very rare in terms of the events of recent years. It would be a shame to argue that the proposal provides significant benefits to the countries of the Turk Council. But so far, we can't wait to see what Hungary is profiting from it. In today's modern world, of course, nothing can remain a secret. Sooner or later, we will find out what financial reasons are behind the approach to the leaders of the Turk Council, just as we did not have much to wait for the circumstances of the release of the Azeri axe killer to come to light, but the stakes are probably much higher right now. What is more worrying is that Viktor Orbán is becoming less and less desirable in Europe. His party is about to be disbarred, and his government goes into a dwarf minority, and he rarely stays with his position. The more advanced part of our continent, and even its own political party family, no longer asks for the false policy of Fidesz-KDNP, so it is no wonder that he was forced to look for other allies. The Budapest office of the Turkish Council's representation seems to be a new stage of this joyful development. I trust that Hungarian foreign policy will not venture any further, because it is hard to convince anyone that the approach to Eastern or South American dictatorships, which is believed to be of Hungarian interest or based on real kinship, would serve. Thank you for listening.
u2019-11-22-10	Thank you, Congresswoman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. The speeches will now take place within a normal time frame. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter.
u2019-11-22-11	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, In my opinion, it is possible to join an international organisation of this kind, the big question is why. Why? ! The Hungarian people should be kind enough to tell us what is the specific benefit of Hungary's wish to join this organization. For the time being, we are talking about observer status, but we would like to see concrete statements about this, as trade traffic does not show such value and volume that it would justify for a moment Hungary's participation in this council. The other thing that my fellow Member Zsigmond mentioned was that he referred to Eximbank, and so he opened up financial opportunities and frameworks. Here, allow me an example to draw a parallel and ask the question that this is about the same thing. For example, there is the re-enactment of the Dunakeszi Vehicle Repair Plant in Russia, and there is the situation where Eximbank finances in the transaction that, in essence, although an intermediary company is being intervened, so it can be seen that the tricks are going on, but ultimately, the Russians are helping you access the market with the Hungarian taxpayers' money. So my question, Minister, is that when you talk about how Eximbank will contribute to the Türk Council and thus to the countries involved, you should also talk about this, so that you can expect to also intervene all kinds of intermediary companies and ultimately help the Turkish market access with Hungarian taxpayers' money. The other thing is that I think that it would also be in vain to argue that perhaps perspective transport of energy could justify this kind of cooperation, since this cannot be done, because the necessary pipelines are not available for any transport of gas. I think that, for the time being, gas cannot be brought to Hungary in a bag. Therefore, this cannot justify Hungary's intention to join either the observer status or closer cooperation. I would also like to bring another subject here, because, of course, it is possible to say that the Hungarian Government can legally decide what international organisation it is joining and what it is not, but there is also a very serious question as to what the Hungarian people are actually profiting from it, and I also asked the Minister in writing. I would very much like for you to be able to answer me orally at this plenary session. If not, I will be waiting in writing for your reply that the Turkish Council's representative office in Budapest will also provide intelligence, as according to the news published on the Turkish radio and television website on 6 September, the 22nd meeting of the Türk Council's intelligence organisations took place in Baku, at which they also decided to establish the permanent secretariat of the Turkish Council's intelligence organisations. On the initiative of the Hungarian Government, Hungary was granted observer status in 2018 in the Turkish Council, founded in 2009, which could now open a representative office in Budapest on the proposal of the Government, which would also have the privileges and immunities of international organisations, as my fellow Members have otherwise explained. That is why I asked Minister, and I ask now that the Information Office, as a Hungarian intelligence agency, is a member of the permanent secretariat of the Turkish Council intelligence organisations, or participates in the work of this organisation in any form, or plans to participate in this intelligence cooperation with the Information Office, the Hungarian civil intelligence agency. My next question is the organizational relationship between the permanent secretariat of the Turkish Council's intelligence organisations with the planned representative office of the Turkish-speaking State Cooperation Council in Budapest. My third question is that the permanent secretariat of the Turkish Council's intelligence organisations will now have the right to maintain an organisational unit in the Budapest representative office of the Cooperation Council of the Turk Languages in Budapest, or to place staff and agents in Budapest. These are very serious questions, Minister. I think people are right to expect an answer, so I would like to ask you to answer this, if possible, orally. I would like to conclude by saying that, as I speak, the entire agreement which is in front of this House, I think that it raises more questions than we have received answers or justifications, and I hope that this will change, and I would like to bring to this the subject of very serious problems at the Hungarian embassy, for example, in Uzbekistan. In 2017, the Hungarian press also found out about this, and I took a number of insights into this in the Ministry, that in essence the Hungarian Embassy in Tashkent could function by placing state secrets in unauthorized hands, as the embassy could operate without proper protection. By the way, for example, the survey revealed that the technical floor plan, which was used for a renovation carried out by Uzbek individuals in connection with the Hungarian embassy, could in essence have access to all the technical parameters that they should not have had. [[9.40]] The building was rebuilt by the owner of Uzbek according to the Hungarian state's requirements, so that he could learn about the entire electrical design material, the premises for the operation of the ciphering equipment and the security system itself. I would like to ask whether, on the one hand, you are already ensuring the proper functioning and safe functioning of the Hungarian Embassy in Tashkent, and my question is whether this was already part of this intelligence cooperation. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-11-22-12	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Congressman Tamás Mellar.
u2019-11-22-13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Minister, I do not consider myself an expert on the subject, obviously I am not familiar with foreign policy issues, so I do not question whether this representative office has political or security policy grounds. I'm sure that's true. But I think it's a little excessive or not a little bit, but rather the kind of argument you'd like to put forward for economic reasons. This has also been done by Minister and my fellow members of the Government. For example, my colleague, Mr Barna Pál Zsigmond, said that the external trade relationship between the Turk States and Hungary is developing dynamically, as this external trade relationship has doubled, and now there is a turnover of $1 billion. [[Dr. Zsigmond Barna Pál: I didn't say...]] I heard a billion... [[Intercoms, among them: 4 billion!]] 4 billion HUF... [[Intercoms, including Dollars.]] Sorry, $4 billion. This is still up to 2% of the country's foreign trade turnover. So I think that this is not something of such importance that we should definitely establish an economic basis for. Then the other reason for the existence of this whole transaction from an energy point of view, and here, my fellow Member, Mr Demeter, has already indicated that, indeed, if we were to expect a longer term supply of gas, then the necessary utilities should be created, and, of course, it is a big question that there is a reason for this creation at a time when, in the world economy, I would like to point out that a revolutionary change is taking place on the energy platforms, i.e. the energy market, i.e. towards renewable energies, the whole, and, moreover, the government is committed to Paks II. I don't know, I don't know, I don't know. So I don't see the importance and justification of this from an energy point of view. Lőrinc Nacsa, my colleague, said that Hungary can be a link between East and West. Now I think that this is also a very dangerous wording, and it would be very important to see things clearly here, because the whole point of the story is not whether Hungary knows, is able, wants to be such a link, but the fundamental question that Endre Ady said a hundred years ago is where Hungary is going as a ferry country, where and where it is going: from west to east or from east to west. And it is very clear with regard to the Eastern opening programme, and also with regard to this project called the linking link, that Hungary is indeed heading very strongly from the west to the east, so the ferry wants to end up more and more in the east, and I think that this is a fatally flawed orientation, because whatever relations we are seeking with these states, the most important, centuries-old international labour-sharing trends we cannot override. So the technology transfer that wants to go from west to east and from east to west is still the most powerful, as shown by our external trade orientations, since more than 80 percent of our exports and imports are in the Member States of the European Union. Otherwise, if it were worth building economic relations to the east, it would be much more towards China and South Korea than towards the Turkic countries. So I think that the kind of argument that has been given a great deal of space here cannot be accepted. So this is not really economic, but we should be kind and we think that there are reasons and reasons for technical or security policy. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-11-22-14	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy.
u2019-11-22-15	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I was inspired by the contribution of my fellow Member Nacsa, since Mrs Zita Gurmai specifically said the position of MSZP on the draft, but there are some things that raised questions in me. What reassures me is that KDNP supports government foreign policy, it was useful and new information. In addition, there were a few things that may have been a bit surprising or excessive in your comment. He said that the European Union cannot solve the problems. Then it almost follows that the Turk Council will be able to solve Hungary's problems, or even Turkey. And I was thinking that when you drew a parallel between the United Nations and the Turk Council, which, after all, are almost similar organisations, because one of them was founded in 45 and has 193 members, and the other in 2009 and 5 members, so its weight in international public life is really similar to the UN and the Turk Council, that is quite clear. The other thing that's more interesting is that you said that you should strive for good relationships with everyone, which I think is almost entirely true. This is not always the case either in foreign policy, but let's put this aside for a moment. However, he also said that relations with Eastern and Western partners should be balanced. My fellow Member, I do not think that is entirely the case, because in 1990 Hungary decided to create a different type of system, and the result of this orientation and then several referendums was that Hungary belonged to the Euroatlantic community. That's what the people said twice. In fact, for a long time, Hungarian foreign policy has had a threefold priority, which made the Euroatlantic, first integration, then deepening relations, good neighbourly relations and caring for Hungarians across the border, the main priority area. Therefore, I think that those who are more concerned with the East should not mean that they are less concerned with the European Union, or, in other words, if they are criticising the European Union, they should also do so with the Eastern partners, because as Hungarians it is interesting to know that, on the one hand, when Christians are persecuted by the Turks in Syria, you do not say a word, you say that it is okay there, it is not okay if Christians are persecuted or expelled from their houses, but if this is done there, and it is done by militias related to Turks, it is okay. The other is that, interestingly, when something happens, either in terms of Russia or China, or in terms of Turkey, which would give rise to criticism and foreign policy criticism, it is embarrassingly avoided, silent, and even, where appropriate, taking counter-measures, while, if something is happening in the European Union that may or may not disturb you, the whole media is immediately on the right about what the European Union has done or what the European Union has not done. [[9.50]] And what is interesting is that it was not important for the government to express its displeasure when a country violently wants to change borders and exchange populations beyond those borders. I only ask because this has happened in the case of Hungary in our history, so as a Hungarian person, not to say that a state will take itself and enlist in the territory of another state, and from there it will expel the people who live there, or, if so, try to replace the population who lives there, I think that this would certainly give the government some opportunity to criticize it on the basis of our history. So I would say once again, with the idea that, in fact, the balance does not mean that we are constantly spitting on one side and spit on the other side, but that we must also measure it in balance in the criticism. However, I do not agree with this statement in this form; I agree that Hungary has a priority, and in the priority, the European Union or NATO is far ahead of any country in the Eastern Partnership, because Hungary has also undertaken a value community in addition to an interest community, although sometimes people have doubts, observing the Prime Minister's work that he does not want to extend this value community in relation to Russia or Turkey. You also said that foreign policy is finally dealing with what needs to be done and doing what needs to be done. This is so successful that you cannot go to the People's Party's meeting, for example, the KDNP, you can go, Congressman Nacsa, but the Fidesz can't go, because you're sitting on a bench, or you're setting yourself up in the corner, and you're kneeling on corn because of the excellent foreign policy you've been referring to, because you're finally doing what you have to do. It seems to me that this foreign policy is a little bit more diplomatically seen not only here in Hungary from the ranks of the opposition, but also abroad or abroad, and that is not quite the feeling of either the Hungarian voters many times, nor of our foreign partners, with whom, as I have just said, we have a community of interests and values. I think very simply that many of my fellow Members, Márta Demeter, have also raised the point of whether or not Tamás Meltár and Zita Gurmai are also the Turk Council and why. I think it is very simple why this Turk Council comes to Hungary: it is so simple that it is a personal business interest. This is the only reason why this is going to Hungary, not a national economy, not a foreign policy, not a national security interest, simply a personal business, economic interest, that is why this Turkish Council is coming to Hungary, and it is therefore not a national interest that is being held back in the first place, and I think it is worth dealing with this issue in this way. If the Prime Minister had no strong business relations with Turkish businessmen, we probably wouldn't buy a gun from there, and we probably wouldn't be so eager to have observer status in the Turk Council, or even to come to Hungary if necessary, which is better than before, when the Turks came to the Castle as tourists throughout history. So I'm sure it's better than that, and it's better that the Russians don't come with tanks, but with banks, and this is certainly better for Hungary. In conclusion, I would say that, in our view, this eastern adventure should be completed, and that we should return to the previously agreed foreign policy stance, which gives the countries of the Euroatlantic Community a clear and clear priority, and, where appropriate, to try to settle these relations through the European Union's glasses or NATO's glasses, not to raid the East, but to cooperate correctly in the West. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-22-16	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Sigismund.
u2019-11-22-17	What kind? You're two minutes away...
u2019-11-22-18	Normal time frame.
u2019-11-22-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond briefly to the comments made by my fellow opposition Members. On behalf of Jobbik, the Member said that there was no economic advantage in cooperating with the Turk Council, the countries of the Turk Council. I would repeat that trade traffic has doubled over the last ten years, and I have talked about four billion dollars, as my fellow Member Mellar has quoted, but perhaps one of the important news of the last few days is that MOL has bought into the ACG oil fields in Azerbaijan and the BTC pipeline, which is a great Hungarian economic success, so there is definitely a point in economic cooperation with these countries. What I see is that many of my fellow Members have wondered what an international organisation means. There is a clear legal status in international law as to what an international organisation means, what an exemption means; this does not mean that members of representation are not subject to Hungarian law. This status is identical to the status of foreign representations. Congresswoman Gurmai has mentioned on several occasions that there are representations, embassies, so what is the difference between a representative office and an embassy. There is no difference in legal status, so an embassy that's been operating here for decades is the same kind of threat that you think a representative office could pose. The employees of the representative office are obliged to comply with the Hungarian legislation, so they should not pose any threat to the Hungarian State. My fellow Member Gurmai outlined a galactic Orbán phobia, and I couldn't follow it, because from anti-Semitism to ax murderer, from financial interests to all sorts of things, but we have already heard this, as you referred to a few days ago when you asked the Prime Minister, so it is probably difficult to convince him why it is important to open a representative office. And by the way, this is a law that also has the title of publishing the headquarters agreement. So I don't think there's a place here to explain through pages, which is about the content of the cooperation or the legal basis, it's a convention to announce a headquarters agreement, along with all its formal and substantive elements. So if someone doesn't want to understand, then, of course, they'll never understand. My fellow Member Gurmai once said that he was more concerned with the Hungarian public and then accused us of making this relation too important, so I think that he should decide which position he would then represent. And no one insulted any ethnic group in Hungary, but the Prime Minister also represented the Hungarian interest in the countries of the Turk Council when he spoke about cultural and historical traditions and opened the details of this. I cannot follow where the Hungarian interest is damaged, as he also said that the Hungarian interest is damaged, I do not see such an element in this agreement, it is about the Hungarian interest, it is about bringing another important international organisation to Budapest, and this is the European bridge head office of this international organisation. And Congresswoman Demeter said that there was an intelligence conference in Baku, and that that's why she's been visualizing all kinds of conspiracy, and that there's intelligence in this representative office. There was probably a ballet conference in Baku, but I'm not sure there's a ballet artist in the representative office. [[Márta Demeter interrupts.]] and you are talking about leaking information, so I think that everyone should give a responsible opinion on a given legislation. [[Péter Ungár and Márta Demeter intervene.]] My fellow Member, Mr Mellar, once again, would like to quote that cooperation has a serious economic benefit, and MOL's latest business illustrates very well the importance of economic relations in this dimension. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-22-20	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa in a two-minute time frame.
u2019-11-22-21	Thank you very much. I am extremely honored that my speech motivated Attila Mesterházy to speak for nine minutes, but I regret that his hearing about my speech is a little selective. The unfortunate fact that I have described this sentence is that I have literally said that we can play the role of Europe as omnipotent and autonomous, as the opposition claims, but it is a lie, and I have also said that we are the first in our federal system, in NATO and in the European Union, in the role of balancing East-West cooperation and the bridge between the East-West. I told you that, too, literally. The thing is, since 1990, you've been updating this federal system, from St. Stephen, who has bound us to the Western world and Western Christianity, but there's different time horizons, that's clear, I get it. It is particularly amusing to address to me the criticism of the European People's Party when I got home from Zagreb last night at nine o'clock from the European People's Party Congress, but this is another question. With regard to criticism: naturally, we agree that our partners, our closer and far-reaching partners, if we see something that is not interfering with the internal policies of another country, because we do not tolerate it either, rightly, and I do not think that we need to practice it, but we need to draw attention to some international phenomenon or be critical of someone, of course it is right. [[10.00]] At the same time, it should also be said that it is precisely that we are perhaps making the most criticisms towards the European Union, which means that we are in and out of our place, because you want your own family to be the best and consider it the best, and you may also be talking more often about, say, the nasty talk about your own child than the neighbor's child, because you might prefer your own child to be an honest, honest adult, much more interested in your own child than your neighbor's child. So the federal system is clear, and I said that in my speech, I think that there is no debate between us, but I ask you to hear it when I say that. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-22-22	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy in two minutes.
u2019-11-22-23	Thank you very much. I heard you right after all. [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] I wrote it down once again, so you said that the European Union is being criticised several times, and I said that criticism should be shared with equal standards and standards. I think that there have been a lot of international phenomena in recent weeks, months and years where it could have spoken to the Hungarian government in this respect, while we see that it has not done so in any way. Interestingly, they always say, as you said, that we do not wish to interfere with what is happening in another country. Interestingly, when something happens in the Member States of the European Union, they say something when they say something. Thank God, my kids don't talk dirty, so I don't have to tell them, and I really don't think I have to tell my neighbor. By the way, I didn't address you, but I said that you could go to the People's Party Congress, but the Fidesz people didn't, and the result of which was that you were pursuing the foreign policy you were conducting, and I wanted to highlight your family, as you said, and not anything else, because it even points out that you've been cornered in your family, or that if I were to use your voice, you've been spoken to, because you're speaking badly, and that's why the Fidesz Members couldn't even go to this convention. In fact, if I understand correctly the words of President Tusk, who will now lead the People's Party, a message addressed directly to Viktor Orbán in his opening speech, and even though he did not put it there, and I am sending this message to Viktor Orbán, everyone, besides themselves, understood that this message was being sent to Viktor Orbán by President Tusk. [[Dr. Zsigmond Barna Pál: Just not for him! Fidesz congressmen.]] So, curiously, we are very excited about what the wise men's council will decide at the end of January, and in what form Fidesz can regain its full membership there, in this community. And another sentence: you can refer to MOL, but MOL probably would have bought itself into this business even if there was no Turk Council in Hungary, because it is likely to follow economic and profit interests, not what Fidesz tells it. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-22-24	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Péter Ungár in a normal time frame.
u2019-11-22-25	Thank you for the floor. I would only like to, and I am very pleased that you are here, Minister, in the beginning to join the debate, that I have tried several times before to... [[Dr. Sigismund Brown Paul intervenes.]] Yeah, that's why I'm glad. I have tried to find out from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs several times, also from Secretary of State Menczer, that in the event that the gas transport from Ukraine will not take place, and that President Putin has already said this in Budapest, and since then the spokesperson of the Kremlin has also said that they want to settle all disputes with Ukraine before Naftogaz and the Russian party conclude the gas supply agreement, and it follows that next year the arrival of the gas to Hungary will probably not be impeccable, and the government has said that this is related to this law, which is why the government said that it will be possible to replace it with Turkish Stream. My question is, what are you planning to do, when the Turkish Stream will actually be ready for your material. It was not possible that this would be the same as before, and I would not wish to personally offend the Minister at all in this regard - the Krki LNG terminal, in which 47 memorandum of understanding was signed, I think it would be possible to insulate it on its own with the paper signed in connection with the LNG terminal in Krki, and yet it was not possible that these gestures would remain empty, as we are doing in this direction, because the Turkish Stream will not be realized, and also as a result of your energy policy, which makes us dependent on Russia in the 10th year of the Orbán government as a result of gas supply. I know that even Viktor Orbán cannot do anything about the geographical situation of Hungary, I am aware of that, but at the same time during the ten years, especially after the gas crisis in 2008-2009, it would be possible to prepare for such events to happen again. The purchase or uploading of gas reservoirs is a positive step in this direction, as well as the Slovak interconnector, but the fact that we are dependent again on Turkey, Croatia or Romania in this regard is not certain to be the most satisfying thing, and I also feel with this law that we wish to exercise gestures to a power that will not return this gesture by building Turkish Stream in all aspects. If you could provide us with specific information on this, that would be very good. I would also like to respond to my colleague: I love ballet, I walk a lot, I have been to Moscow the last ballet performance, it's a very nice thing, but I think you can see that ballet has relatively less to do with this law than intelligence. [[Lajos Korózs: But Baku has many!]] So I think that this may not have been the most appropriate comparison in the Hungarian political history you have said here. I would go further, I am not entirely sure that the Hungarian counterintelligence, let's say, is blessed with a sufficient number of people with language skills and knowledge to address an increased Turkish or regional risk. If you go to bed at night and feel free to know that the Hungarian counterintelligence will be able to see this, and this will not be an increased burden or other way for the Hungarian counterintelligence, I hope, at the hearing of the National Security Committee, which will be in the next period, you will be able to inform us about this in a closed session, and I would be glad that at least the right-wing political community will see the danger of this. I would just like to say that, of course, there are many embassies, or other diplomatic institutions or other institutions associated with them, whose people, who are involved in this operation, are given different privileges. I would very much like to hear news in the next period, balancing the Russian and Turk lines, which I don't know, Canadian, Australian investment bank, or something that would also be the other pillar of this bridge role, which Lőrinc Nacsa painted so picturesquely, would show; so something that might not come from a country that, say, cannot be considered a traditional ally of Hungary. I hope that I can say this about both Turkey and Russia here, and hopefully, my fellow Members with Fidesz will agree with this subtle statement in the historical sense. So from countries that are more historically considered allies of Hungary, such institutions will also come from such countries, and we will also be able to hear about such institutions, and let's say, after Turk and Russian, let's say, the North Korean will be next, or any other country, or some other Chinese institution, which the majority of government was formed against in 1989. So basically, my request would be to balance this bridge role over the next period. Thank you.
u2019-11-22-26	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congresswoman Zita Gurmai.
u2019-11-22-27	Several people have also spoken about it, Mr Foreign Minister, but the Prime Minister himself has repeated that Hungary has doubled its trade with the countries of the Turk Council over the last ten years and has indeed reached four billion US dollars. However, I also have to add, and I would like to reiterate that Hungarian foreign trade amounted to EUR 204 billion in 2018, which is actually 2 percent, so this is not the... No, and the other is that, moreover, we were the ones who opened a EUR 577 million credit line at Eximbank to finance business cooperation with the countries of the organization, but of course I have been told that there are other ideas here, and of course, that currently 705 scholarship students are studying from the countries of the Council of Turk in Hungary, I consider this extremely important, and if there are other intentions, then this too. However, let us not forget what the Prime Minister said in Baku on 15 October:. We joined the Turkish Council as observers in order not only to receive but also to give. That's the question I'm still interested in. What we Hungarians can give to this council is the connection to Europe and the European Union. Therefore, in recent months, we have established a European representation of the Turkish Council, and together with your foreign ministers, we have inaugurated this in Budapest. It was also mentioned. This is a permanent representation, but it also accommodates economic forums and cultural events. So let's go to the ballet. We respectfully await your delegates so that the work can begin as soon as possible, and thank the Presidents for agreeing to sign the headquarters agreement today. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[10.10]] So I would really like to clarify who and when asked the Prime Minister to mediate with the European Union why the Prime Minister is going against the EU treaties when he promised at the Türk Council in Baku that the Hungarian EU Commissioner would help Turkey and Azerbaijan join the EU. I'd really like to get an answer to that. Thank you.
u2019-11-22-28	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter in a two-minute time frame.
u2019-11-22-29	Thank you. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. I would be happy if my fellow members of the Government could answer certain questions, otherwise content, but obviously I expect the answer from the Minister in the first place. [[Peter Szijjártó: A few minutes!]] and that is why I am pleased that you are here in this debate. Let's just say, obviously, it would be nice for you to have information about these things. That's one thing. The other thing is that I can see that you have a terrible pain in the content issues, but I can guarantee you that you will receive the same content questions in the future. [[Peter Szijjártó: Wait!]] For example, in the present case, I would refer only to them to the fact that they will be intelligence cooperation, the Information Office will be involved in this, why the Eximbank should help other countries access the market instead of helping Hungarian companies to access the market, and whether, for example, the operation of an embassy in Uzbekistan is effectively protected, provided that this can be done safely. Allow me to respond in one final sentence specifically to the half sentence raised by my fellow Member, Mr Sigismund. And all I have to say is, yeah, I'm talking about it, and you guys are doing it. Thank you very much. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Wow!]]
u2019-11-22-30	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Sigismund in two minutes.
u2019-11-22-31	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, Very briefly. In consultation with the Minister, the Minister will also provide the answers on behalf of the Members. I would only respond very briefly to the suggestion of my fellow Member Ungar. He said that the analogy between ballet and intelligence is not the most exciting chapter in political history. We'll see what chapter this metaphor opens. But it is certainly not one of the most elegant chapters of the political history that he does not participate in the Minister's speech in Parliament, he is not here in the speech of the lead speaker, and then he comes in and gives a comment. [[Márta Demeter: He was here and listened to it! Péter Ungár: Here we sit!]] This is definitely not the most elegant chapter. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-22-32	Thank you, Congressman. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed and I give the floor to Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade.
u2019-11-22-33	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that I have the opportunity to answer the questions raised in the debate. If you'll allow me, experiential reports, science fiction, slime statements. [[Péter Ungár: What kind of saliva?]] Although we didn't mix islands with cities, I wouldn't respond to the assumptions that end up with all sorts of things -hat, -het, -het, although we didn't mix islands with cities. I'm glad we cleared the exchange rates, the numbers. So, if you'll excuse me, I would like to give you answers to the content, the questions you've actually asked, to the real issues. First of all, in relation to the International Investment Bank, your fellow Member, Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, interpelled me, perhaps a week or two ago, I gave her the full answer on the exemptions and privileges, and then she accepted my answer, and here you are protesting what I said at the time. Your fellow Member has accepted, you object. I think this is an internal matter of your faction, so be kind to each other if you want to discuss it. There is one thing that I can point out again: neither the International Investment Bank nor the Turkish-speaking Cooperation Council has received any extra entitlement compared to what is included in the headquarters agreements of international organisations operating in Budapest. If you need to know what applies to the headquarters agreements of the headquarters of the UN or other international organisations in Hungary, you can look into these, we are very happy to give you the opportunity to see that there is no extra and additional point in the agreement with the Turkish Council or the International Investment Bank. It's all in line with international standards. I think that Congresswoman Márta Demeter knows much better than I, because she has much more expertise on the subject than I do, that when an international organisation arrives in Hungary or a diplomat or co-worker to be accredited by another country, how should I put it? In any case, it goes through its investigations, and if these organisations do not find any clues, signs, or references in which it could be concluded that the person will engage in activities contrary to Hungarian national interests in Hungary, they will grant it accreditation, but if they do find such signs, suspicions or references, then obviously a different type of decision will be taken. So you obviously know exactly what procedure we are conducting for diplomats and staff arriving in Hungary, whether the Turkish Council or the International Investment Bank, or any other embassy operating in Hungary, and if the end of the procedure is the view that there are different suspicions or possibilities for action against Hungarian national security interests, then a decision will be taken accordingly. This is the case for all international organisations and embassies. Ladies and gentlemen, Several people here described it as a huge sensation facing European interests that the Prime Minister said that the Commissioner of Hungarian nationality would use special resources or work to develop cooperation with Europe between Azerbaijan and the other Turkic Council countries. Now I'm gonna tell you a secret. The Enlargement and Neighbourhood Policy Commissioner is currently continuing negotiations with Azerbaijan, Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan on the modernisation and broadening of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement concluded with the European Union in 1996 and 1999. So this is the job of the Commissioner for Enlargement and Neighbourhood Policy, that is his job. So let's not treat this like such a big secret. So far, as a colleague of Federica Mogherini, Johannes Hahn, who carried out enlargement policy and neighbourhood policy tasks alongside the High Representative, continued these negotiations. When Federica Mogherini presides over the Foreign Affairs Council, the Enlargement Commissioner sits there, always when we discussed the development of relations with Azerbaijan, when we discussed the development of relations with Uzbekistan, when we discussed the development of relations with Kyrgyzstan. It's his job. So the future EU enlargement policy and neighbourhood policy Commissioner will negotiate with these countries is his job. This, let's say, should be set up as a huge sensation, be sorry, or refer to a lack of knowledge of European Union operations, or to some other kind of deficiency in my utmost respect. With regard to energy supply, honourable Member and honourable Member, we need to know what Hungary's gas supply looks like. In Hungary today gas can come from Russia through Ukraine, gas can come from Austria, gas can come from Slovakia. This is what the list of interconnectors allowing gas shipments to Hungary currently looks like. We also built the gas pipeline to Croatia, built the compressor station needed to transport gas to Croatia. Croats have not yet done so, despite their EU and bilateral obligations, but they are currently in the process of carrying gas from Croatia to Hungary. They're a couple of years behind schedule. This may not be fair to blame the Hungarian government's mistake. Then in 2010 and 11 we handed over the Hungarian-Romanian interconnector, we built everything on the Hungarian side, we built the compressor station, we can deliver gas to Romania; the Romanians, despite their EU and bilateral obligations, still did not build the compressor station that allowed them to transport gas here. We're in the process of doing this now. I recently met the Romanian Prime Minister, with whom Viktor Orbán handed over this interconnector, and he was surprised that we were not ready. They are not ready, but once again it would be an exaggeration to blame the Hungarian government. [[10.20]] With regard to the Krki LNG terminal, the Croatians have been promising to start construction for about ten years. I signed one memorandum with them; how much it could be insulated, I don't know, or it was two pages, but I'm not an expert on insulation issues. But the point is that the mistake of the Hungarian government to blame the Croatians, despite the fact that they have received European Union funds, has still not been built their LNG terminal, is again a little unfair, I think. It is in our interest to build the LNG terminal, and I think it is also in our interest to participate in this construction as partners, because it is in our strategic interest to have ownership of such strategic elements. We're gonna talk about this, too. Croats link the issue of acquisition with capacity ownership, which is not yet in our interest, but if we are able to find external sources such as the LNG in Qatar that could arrive in Croatia at a better price than the current one, then it is worth linking these two issues. It's on the agenda, you can buy ownership, and we hope you'll move faster on construction. In Romania, there is an offshore field called Neptune, in the Black Sea, where the right to extract gas fields is owned by an American-Austrian consortium, ExxonMobil and OMV. ExxonMobil and OMV have not yet made the necessary investment decision to start production. The last time I negotiated with the CEO of OMV, he said that even after the necessary investment decision, it would take at least four to five years to produce gas in quantities; they refer to the regulatory environment created by the Romanians. So, at present, we are saying that Romania, Croatia, the United States and Austria, as well as companies related to these countries, have not made their decisions, have not implemented their obligations in the European Union: so what is the situation? So what's the deal? We're still dependent on Russian gas supplies. So the criticism that we would not have taken the necessary steps to diversify gas sources is unfair because we have built all the infrastructure in Hungary for this. And once again, it is not our fault that after the Hungarian-Slovak Interconnector, Gazprom, is a Russian company that builds Nord Stream 2, together with the largest Western European companies, in an interesting way, when we ask the Germans, French and Italians about this: what is the answer? Business issue. Then business issue, when it comes to criticizing the Russians and imposing sanctions, of course, is a political issue. So we're looking at a case of double standards here. So, so, while the Germans, the Italians and the French are building the Nord Stream 2 with the Russians, while Gazprom seized the capacity of German-Czech and Czech-Slovak interconnectors until 2039, which regulatory authority went against this? The Hungarian. So, let's say, so much for who's doing what's best. Moreover, for the first time in Hungarian history, all of our gas reservoirs are completely full. 6.44 billion cubic meters of gas are stored in the Hungarian gas reservoirs today. It's never been like this before! And we are no longer in a position to discuss the current winter care with the Russians, but to discuss next winter care. And, honourable Member, whether the Ukrainian transit agreement is concluded or not, no one knows that today. By the way, when President Putin was here in Budapest on 30 October, he was called aside for a moment before the delegations were presented, and he seemed to be pleased to note some kind of communication from his own chief advisor, and when we asked him what it was, do you know what it was? Then they told him that the Danish authorities allowed the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline to be built in Danish waters. So, so much for how Western Europeans feel about Russia, anyway. Also, last year, the three continental G7 countries: Germany, Italy and France, do you know how their trade relations with Russia were shaped? Do you know how? The Germans increased their trade relations with Russia by 56 percent, the French by 40 percent, and the Italians by 37 percent. So there is incredible hypocrisy here on this issue, because while the Russians are constantly being accused of communication, while they are doing huge business below the level of communication, and you are saying that here the International Investment Bank is on the wrong horse. These are the facts that you asked me about. So, honourable Member, with regard to Turkish Stream, I can tell you that Gazprom has built the pipeline to Turkey, both wires, reached the Turkish-Bulgarian border, the Bulgarians have started construction, the first 11 kilometer section has been built, the compressor station is built, the Serbs have built 202 kilometers out of the necessary 400 kilometers, we also have the building permit for the remaining section, for the Hungarian border. We, for our part, have written out the so-called open season, so capacity-binding procedure, 9.8 billion cubic metres of annual transport, the second phase of this process until 27 November, which is the public consultation, then the duration of the submission of mandatory offers begins, and I think that this will end by the end of this year. There will then be about a 15-kilometer gas pipeline construction project, which is not one of the five largest projects in the history of Hungarian energy investments, so it will not be very complicated. By October 2021, we will now make the date when, in its full capacity, a gas pipeline can be built on Hungary through the Turkish Stream. Congresswoman Márta Demeter expressed a lack of understanding about energy supplies. Then I would repeat what I said in the expozee but I understand that you were not here, I just did not see it, and my fellow Member drew your attention to this, so he could not hear - TANAP, which is the abbreviation of the Transanatolian pipeline by the end of November, so the Transanatolian pipeline will be handed over on 30 November. The transadrian pipeline is connected to this, so the Azerbaijani field Shah Deniz 2 on which the extraction is to be doubled and sold to Europe in the coming time will be available for south-eastern Europe and then Central Europe. Thus, from 2022 to 2023, when the Shah Deniz field increases production, a physical link between Central Europe and Azerbaijan in terms of energy supplies will be established. I would like to reassure you that Eximbank will only finance transactions or investments or deliveries in accordance with the provisions laid down by law. In any case, there must be 50 percent Hungarian content. I am pleased that Congresswoman has brought up the largest foreign order ever in the history of the Hungarian railway vehicle manufacturing industry: we can transport 1300 railway cars to Egypt, worth $1 billion of $70 million. For this, Eximbank and the Russian Export Credit Insurance provide the cover and a Hungarian-Russian consortium will deliver the delivery. The only thing about isolation is that this year, Prime Minister Donald Trump invited him to the White House, visited President Macron alone in a long consultation, and the German Chancellor was here. I wish everyone such isolation. As regards the opening of the East, Korea, China, Japan, my fellow Members, the first six months of this year are the first six months when Germany is not the number one investor in Hungary, but the Republic of Korea. And why is that? Because the old dogma, according to which capital flows only from the west to the east, looking for cheap labour, has long since fallen, and the Far Easters are at least as competitive as the Westerners in terms of new technologies. In Hungary, Samsung Sdi is building the world's largest electric battery plant, with investment of over EUR billion in SK Innovaton, and next to it has been installed by GY Yuasa, Doosan, Inzi Controls and Shinheung to list only a few Japanese and Korean companies with which we have agreed to invest billions of euros over the past few years. As a result, at the end of October this year, the investment record of all time in Hungary was broken, which was last year by the way, and, overall, more investments were made in Hungary at the end of October than last year. This, if I remember correctly, amounted to HUF 1,400 billion in total. So the Eastern opening, I think, can be understood from here; of course, I understand that there are people who are rooting for these large investments to go to Slovakia, the Czech Republic or Poland, but for our part we are working to bring them here to Hungary. I also understand that... [[Lajos Korózs: The Mellár asked me...]] Well, just because my fellow Members asked, and I thought I'd answer. I apologize for this impoliteness, honourable Member, and I would like to discuss with you that I have answered the questions raised by you. Professor, if I may, I would like to take advantage of the time frame I think it is; perhaps I have answered your questions as well, because we have made it clear that it is a billion and four dollars, and you are right that this is 2 percent of the Hungarian trade turnover. That is because, honourable Member, in the last five years we have broken the current export record at the end of each year. We are now among the 35 countries in the world who can produce exports over EUR 100 billion annually. We've done this in the last two years. We had a 4-percent increase at the end of September this year, so I think we will succeed at the end of this year. We are 92th on a global scale in terms of population numbers, but we can produce 34th most exports, which is why recognition is due to all Hungarians who work, and praise is due to all investors in Hungary for making this possible. [[10.30]] I would also like to say that, by the way, since 2010, the Member's date has been raised by EUR 23 billion for Hungarian exports, but it is obviously necessary to work in this way, so we must look at the state aid that our competitors, our rivals, provide to their own businesses in order to be able to operate on the external markets. If the Hungarian State had not given such support, the Hungarian companies would unfortunately be less competitive. The instruments can always be debated, this is obvious, so it is completely legitimate, but it is necessary to support Hungarian, basically small and medium-sized enterprises, either by organizing them an opportunity to enter the external markets, or by helping them into the supply chains of large companies operating in Hungary, so they must be supported directly or indirectly by their entry into the export market, because their competitors are all supported by their own national governments. Ladies and gentlemen, If I may, I would still like to give Mr Ungár a reassuring report on the centres in Hungary. The Member rightly suggested that such centres might come from elsewhere. Let me refer to two of these. Last week I signed here in Budapest with the UN Deputy Secretary-General for Counter-Terrorism, the agreement that the UNOCT, the regional headquarters of the UN Anti-Terror Office, will be set up here in Budapest, and we will find out who is the leader, who has already been here, already looking at the scene, recruiting people. In addition, the Secretary-General of the United Nations has made a proposal to outsource the functions of the UN Central Secretariat to the diversified locations of the following the sun. He proposed four locations, not alternative locations, but a package: Senjang, Montreal, Nairobi and Budapest, the four future locations for the UN Secretariat's outsourced operation. So believe me, I am making a very serious effort, and we are making sure that as many such centres as possible come to Hungary. If you allow a small outlook on the economy, last year after the automotive industry, the sector of service centres brought the second most investments to Hungary, and they usually came from US and Western European companies, whether BlackRock or GE, or IBM or Nissan, which I can mention to you here, let's say, the investment in the Far East. With regard to cooperation in the secret service, honourable Member, I would like to say that there is no intelligence foot or activity of any kind in the Turkish Council's Budapest office, of course, if anyone wanted to use it, it would be on the web of the Hungarian authorities, which has not yet taken place. That we have intelligence cooperation with other countries, and I say that we have intelligence cooperation with other countries, of course we do. [[Márta Demeter interrupts.]] Turkey, for example, is not likely to reveal a secret in NATO Member State [[Márta Demeter interrupts.]] So, that we are working with a NATO Member State in intelligence cooperation, of course, yes. We are not part of the Turkish Council's intelligence network or cooperation, and the Budapest office has nothing to do with this, and there will not be any intelligence activity. Thank you for your concern, in order to ensure the security of Hungarian representations, I will, of course, provide you with the opportunity to take a look at all documents, and the questions you have asked, as you have asked in writing, will be answered in writing. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me tell you more about the purchase of weapons from Attila Mesterházy a suggestion was made, if I remember correctly, and then his fellow parties convey my answer to him, and I can tell you about the purchase of weapons that Hungary is the biggest importer of arms from Germany this year. We buy war equipment from Germany, France. We also made such an agreement with Turkey. Turkey is a country with NATO's second largest army, and you are asking us for western orientation, NATO as a security organization integrating the transatlantic community may pass your taste threshold in this respect. Well, a hundred words have one end, Mr President, thank you for your generosity to allow me to answer all the questions, or at least try. I ask you to support the headquarters agreement that we have concluded with the Council of Turk-speaking countries, and I would like to stress once again that the European Union is in constant consultation with all the Member States in order to strengthen relations, so I think that we can serve another European interest in this respect. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-11-22-34	Thank you to the Minister of Foreign Affairs for this well-expanded [[Péter Szijjártó: Excuse me, excuse me.]] reconnaissance. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. It follows now that Act I of 2007 on the entry and residence of persons with the right of free movement and residence, as well as Article XV of 2019 relating to the necessary amendment of certain laws in the event of the irregular exit of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Government referral T/8027. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I will also give the floor to Minister Peter Szijjártó.
u2019-11-22-35	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you once again for the generosity of the former, for allowing me to at least fully try to answer the questions that have been raised, of course I am open to the following consultations. Here is what I would like to say to this item, ladies and gentlemen. In June 2016, the UK citizens decided to step out of the European Union, of course, discussing the underlying causes is not the task of this item, or at least a significant over-extension. On 29 March 2017, the United Kingdom Government formally announced its intention to withdraw from the European Union, and on 25 November 2018 the Heads of State or Government of the European Union agreed on the text of the exit agreement and the political declaration on the future relationship with the British Government. The UK Parliament then rejected the exit agreement several times and, after a new conservative government was established in London under Boris Johnson, proposed changes to the content of certain elements of the exit package. The last European Council, which took place on 17 October, was able to reach agreement on a number of amendments, in particular concerning the North Irish Protocol to the exit convention and the political declaration. Ladies and gentlemen, From the point of view of Hungarian interests, it is of particular importance that the guarantees regarding the protection of civil rights remain unchanged and remain in force. Ladies and gentlemen, Following the British elections, the European Parliament and the British Parliament will have to ratify the exit agreement so that it can enter into force later. According to a statement from the President of the European Parliament, the Strasbourg Panel intends to do so after the decision in London. After the European Council, quoted earlier in October, there have been three further developments that I would like to inform you of. Firstly, the EU Member States have approved the proposal to postpone the date of the withdrawal of the British until 31 January 2020, I have already referred to the early elections, and I have also referred to the statement of the President of the European Parliament. It also shows that there is still no guarantee that the exit negotiations will end with an agreement in an orderly manner, in Hungarian, so that there is still a chance for a Brexit concluded with an agreement, as there is a chance for a so-called no deal Brexit. In any case, we have started preparing for the no deal Brexit case, and as part of this, we have obviously paid particular attention to ensuring that the rights of Hungarians living in the United Kingdom are not undermined in any way and that the rights of citizens of the United Kingdom who live here in Hungary are not violated in the same way. Accordingly, Article 15 of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 is amended as follows: Act adopted and published on 26 March this year. This legislation provides for the possibility of obtaining preferential residence status and has been designed in accordance with the principle of reciprocity, taking into account the plans of the British government. [[10.40]] The prerequisite for obtaining preferential status in this law is that British citizens register before the Hungarian authorities until the date of their exit, in accordance with the relevant 2007 Act I. Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of the free movement of persons in force in the European Union, we also operate a registration system in Hungary for the citizens of the EU who are present here and are accordingly British. After a registration certificate and five years of stay, EU citizens living in our territory can obtain a permanent residence card, for whom it is otherwise required to notify as an obligation to stay in Hungary for more than 90 days. The amendment of the Brexit law was made taking this into account. At the time of withdrawal, British citizens residing in Hungary and their family members will be entitled to obtain a national residence permit after three years of prior residence, without examining the conditions for housing, livelihoods and health insurance. The relevant application may be made no later than three years after the exit date. The condition for obtaining a preferential residence status is that British citizens register before the Hungarian authorities until the date of their exit, which is, by the way, a duty which is completely independent of the Brexit. In recent years, many British citizens living in Hungary have complied with this, and according to the data of the National Directorate-General for Foreign Police the registration certificate issued by Hungary by the end of September this year was 4951 and 181 British citizens with permanent residence cards. On October 3, when I was at an official foreign minister's visit to London, in another sign of isolation, [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] At that time, both the British Foreign Minister and the Minister for Brexit asked that, in the event of an irregular Brexit, we not only accept the requests of British citizens until the scheduled date of the exit, so it is expected that until 31 January 2020 the Hungarian authorities will accept the requests of British citizens, but that we should provide a grace period until 31 December 2020 and thus until the end of the following year. This date is justified by the fact that foreigners arriving in the United Kingdom under EU law, including Hungarian citizens, can register until 31 December 2020 in case of irregular exit. So it was the British's request to achieve full reciprocity, which, I think, is fully acceptable. I respectfully inform my fellow Members that the representatives of the government, i.e. the representatives of the Hungarian government, held so-called town hall meetings three times in the organization of the British Embassy in Budapest, where we informed the British citizens of Hungary about the amendment of the rules on residence in Hungary. Perhaps the President and my fellow Members will allow us to take a short detour, and the situation of Hungarians living in the United Kingdom will be said that Hungarian citizens who arrive in the United Kingdom before 31 January 2020 will retain their rights and will not change their status substantially. These persons will be required to register on an online interface and to claim this status as settled status following a five-year stay or to obtain a pre-setled status following a stay of less than five years. The registration obligation also exists in the event of an orderly exit, in which case it will be possible to submit applications until 30 June 2021 and until 31 December 2020 in the case of no-deal. So here comes the complete symmetry and reciprocity with regard to the bill before us here. Well, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, the Government therefore considers it appropriate, as requested by the British Government, to amend from 31 January 2020 until 31 December 2020 the deadline for British citizens living here to register as a basis for obtaining their status of residence. On the basis of the bill presented to you here, Act I of 2007 on the entry and residence of persons with the right of free movement and residence and Act XV on the national measures necessary for unorganised Brexit adopted this year. Law is amended to this end. I believe that this registration option and its extension will make it easier for the British living in our country, and clearly also favour the strengthening and quality of bilateral relations. Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary's aim during the Brexit negotiations was to avoid a situation that could lead to a minimum violation of the rights of Hungarian citizens in the United Kingdom. This objective has been achieved. Our important objective is also to ensure that Hungarian-British trade, investment and economic relations are not damaged. For the record, the UK is the 11th most important trading partner in Hungary, with a turnover of EUR 5.7 billion last year. British companies are the sixth largest investor community in Hungary. About 55,000 people in Hungary are employed by some 800 businesses with British ownership. Over the past four years, the investment promotion agency has agreed in 23 cases with British investors, a total investment of 216 million euros in Hungary, resulting in 4056 new jobs in Hungary. I would also like to inform you that the Hungarian Government has entered into a strategic cooperation agreement with Tesco, GlaxoSmithKline, Unilever and BT, so we have strategic cooperation with four British ownership companies. Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the quality of Hungarian-British relations and the facilitation of the lives of British people living here, I would like to ask you to postpone the registration deadline from 31 January 2020 until 31 December of next year. I ask for your support and your consent to this. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-22-36	Thank you, Minister. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Barna Pál Sigismund, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2019-11-22-37	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Dear House, Allow me, in view of the transparent objectives of the bill before us and the detailed presentation of the Minister, to give you a brief summary of the position of our group. The proposal aims to regulate the possibility for persons enjoying the right of free movement and residence to continue their stay in Hungary under preferential arrangements before leaving. It is clearly justified to amend the existing legislation, since we can see the events in the United Kingdom well, and in the event of the adoption of this legislation, we will allow UK citizens living in Hungary before leaving to be able to sign up even after leaving, until 31 December 2020 and the registration carried out will be considered as if it had taken place at the time of exit. Thus, they will also be entitled to a preferential establishment and their family members will not be in a less favourable situation. According to the proposal before us, UK citizens and their family members living in Hungary before leaving will be entitled to obtain a national residence permit after three years of prior stay, without examining the conditions for housing, livelihoods, health insurance and the interests of Hungary, and until the national residence permit is obtained, they can continue to use their rights in the possession of documents previously issued under the rules of free movement and residence. Ladies and gentlemen, As we can see, the objective of the proposal is clear, its need is also clear, so I ask you to support the adoption of the bill with your votes. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-22-38	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to János Bencsik, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2019-11-22-39	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I had a bit of a déjà vu feeling when I first read this bill, because we have already decided on a bill with similar content in the walls of this House. [[10.50]] At the time, we decided that even in the case of a so-called no deal Brexit, British citizens living in Hungary and our ripped countrymen in the UK could get the greatest possible discount. As we have heard in the ministerial exposé, the main purpose of the bill we are discussing is to allow British citizens living in Hungary to remain in our country after the United Kingdom leaves the European Union sooner or later. The main concession of the proposal is that British citizens can obtain a residence permit on a facilitated basis until the end of 2020. This is nearly a year longer than the recent prospect of British Prime Minister Boris Johnson compared to the exit date. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Hungary movement is based on our support for any benefits to the United Kingdom which, on the basis of reciprocity, also brings tangible benefits to the Hungarian people who live and work there. I note only in parentheses that, by the way, our ethnic policy is affected by a similar idea, so we think that Hungary should grant all the rights of nationalities living in its territory, which are equally expected in neighbouring countries, in order to protect Hungarians living there, and perhaps even a little more. Returning to the concrete proposal: if I understand correctly, the legislator followed a similar principle, since, like UK citizens living in our country, Hungarians living outside will be able to register until 31 December 2020. However, it is not quite clear, and I ask the Minister to confirm or disprove me, we understand that not only the date of 31 December 2020 applies to those living outside, but also the condition that, if they have already checked in before the exit, they will be treated as having lived there before the exit, thus being entitled to a residence permit and even British citizenship, of course, if they fulfil all other legal conditions. If that is the case, I can say that Jobbik will support this bill along this principle. At the same time, however, I would like to draw your attention to some other important points of view. Ladies and gentlemen, Since March, a lot of water has flown down the Thames, the British have failed their own prime minister, they have issued a dubious early election, and the exit target is getting further and further. Meanwhile, the British economy and the British currency are constantly weakening, and international investors do not want to bring their money into an uncertain market environment. I think that this is a very serious warning to us, too. It is a very serious warning of where half-truths in politics can lead, false news production and manipulation of the masses. Because whatever the end of this Brexit saga is, we see that one of the most powerful economies in the world is now in a series of successive crises. And in these uncertain circumstances, hundreds of thousands of Hungarian compatriots live and work, working there, starting a family, having children. And in this, you, too, my fellow Members of the Government, have a responsibility, and it is not small. You have been working hard since 2015 to prevent a European solution to mass immigration. This irresponsible view of the objective of the policy has led, among other things, to the current situation, which is subject to foreign policy. Instead of taking part in the debate on the future of the European Union, you have instead settled the country with the lie that everyone is a man of George Soros, who is scheming this primitive propaganda. And whoever made the unforgivable mistake of having his own opinion, and he wasn't afraid to say so, became a traitor. My fellow Members, we have wasted valuable time over the past four years. We have wasted precious years of meaningful dialogue and meaningful debates, and this hysterical atmosphere has captured not only the Hungarian Parliament, but the whole of Western Europe. The Hungarians living in the United Kingdom and all European companies and all European taxpayers are now paying for this, as the global economy connects all of us. And speaking of Hungarians wandering abroad, we must also say that most of them left their country in no good mood at all; not out of an adventure, as the Prime Minister said. Most of these people now live more than a thousand kilometers away from their family and friends because they simply couldn't get between them at home. They were driven by coercion, low wages, undeclared jobs, fallen foreign exchange loans, orange barons, the mood, the defilement of public life, the public talk, the constant enemy search, the expected adjustment and the strangulation of my brother's system. This has driven these people away, which is the primary reason why hundreds of thousands of Hungarians have left this country. And I think that we all have a responsibility in this, we have a responsibility in the opposition, but most of all you, who are now sitting in the pro-government benches. Because if there is consensus in that, and I think that apart from DK, there is consensus that we must help Hungarians living in the Carpathian Basin with all our existing means to thrive in their homeland, then we must be guided by the same goal of national policy when we are working to help Hungarians who leave their homeland and migrate to Western Europe as soon as possible to return home. Because, as much as I would like to, my honourable pro-government fellow Members, the gaping void caused by the lack of these people will not be able to fill it with their Ukrainian, Turkish and Mongolian migrant workers, no matter how much they install, and no matter how much they plan to build the new Hungary on their shoulders. The knowledge, diligence, creativity and willingness of Hungarians travelling abroad are sorely lacking in this country today. It is sorely absent and missing not only from GDP data, but also from home warmth, lack of friendly hugs, lack of truncated class reunions, and missing from Grandma's cookie tray. But I think it may not be too late to change this sad trend. But in order to change that, we need political will, and we also need government will. Therefore, I would ask you to consider all that I have said and to do everything together to help Hungarians who have left their country and migrated abroad return so that they can be part of this community as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-22-40	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Hajnalka Juhász, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2019-11-22-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, My fellow Member spoke of wasted time. In this regard, we are not only talking about the time lost to the United Kingdom since 29 March 2017, but also when my fellow Members are using the time frame for something that is not related to the subject. As my fellow Members are aware, under the Treaty on European Union, the Member State which decides to leave shall, on the basis of the guidelines given by the European Council, negotiate and conclude an agreement laying down detailed rules for the exit of that State in view of the future relations of the State concerned with the Union. In the absence of an agreement to withdraw, contracts shall no longer apply to the State concerned after two years from the date of notification by the Member States, unless the European Council, in agreement with the Member State concerned, decides unanimously to extend that period. Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union governs the exit from the European Union. The United Kingdom's withdrawal from the Union is subject to the application of this Article, the process of which started on 29 March 2017. The quoted provision gives a two-year time limit for the conduct of negotiations. If the negotiations do not lead to a ratified agreement within this period, the Member State may leave the Union without a documented definition of the details of the exit.Preparation for exit affects not only the case of the European Union and national authorities, but also private parties, in particular in view of the significant uncertainties regarding the content of the exit agreement with regard to persons wishing to travel from the United Kingdom to the Union on or after the date of exit or as UK citizens in Hungary. It shall also be communicated after withdrawal to the legal consequences which shall be taken into account when the United Kingdom becomes a third country. [[11.00]] This will affect all areas of life: citizens' rights, trade and financial processes. The British Government expressed its determination to minimise disruptions and manage the transition period. Under this bill, in proceedings relating to the citizen of the United Kingdom and family member of a third country, the provisions of that law shall apply from the date of the termination of the membership of the Union of the United Kingdom. As regards the drafting of the bill, it is important to point out that foreigners arriving in the United Kingdom under EU law, including Hungarian citizens, can register until 31 December 2020 in case of irregular exit, confirming that they lived in this country before leaving. Ladies and gentlemen, The vast majority of the provisions of the proposed law described are those of Article XV of 2019 relating to the necessary amendment of certain laws in the event of an irregular withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union. The law already included, however, the so-called deadline for registration, i.e. the definition of it in this proposal until 31 December 2020, provides for the possibility for persons enjoying the right of free movement and residence to stay in Hungary before leaving, even after leaving, in accordance with the preferential arrangements. What I would like to add is that I am one of those who graduated from university in the United Kingdom, and yet I have returned home and served my country. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-22-42	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP group.
u2019-11-22-43	Just for the record, I also studied in Spain and the Netherlands, and I came home. [[Defiance.]] But aside from the joke, the MSZP faction will support any initiative that, on the one hand, or which will help Hungarian citizens, Hungarian families to return from abroad, because it is indeed best if they can use their knowledge in Hungary to do so, but on the other hand, which is more specifically my comment on the draft law, it is that the MSZP supports, of course, that the situation that facilitates or facilitates the residence of Hungarian citizens outside, so this presentation will be supported by the MSZP faction. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2019-11-22-44	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Péter Ungár, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2019-11-22-45	Thank you very much. I don't want to talk about my university studies. [[Defiance. You're done in Moscow, aren't you?]] It's a great place in Moscow. So the fact is that the LMP faction also supports this bill. I would say that I had a similar proposal for a resolution, which called on the government to draw up such a bill a year and a half ago, but I would not like to lay down any responsibility for the government in this case, because, given the British events of the last year and a half, I could not follow the situation exactly after a while, so I do not wish to exercise this criticism in this regard for the time being. However, I would like to ask Minister a section that is not closely related to this law, but it is very important for the people outside, and I am glad that the Commissioner or Minister of State is never sure which, but he is sitting here... [[For signal:]] Minister's Commissioner, excuse me. The fact that the British Minister of Education said earlier that people who, because of their situation in the European Union, have the same tuition conditions as the locals... this means that Scotland is free of tuition and, in the case of England, the same amount of tuition as the locals pay and do not count as international students. That's how those who start a first year are able to complete their studies in the university-leaving system. Whether it will be so, because then there were opposing positions within the British government, one of them. The second is research and scientific cooperation, which is not university courses, but is followed by post-doctoral and other, medically speaking, with the participation of Hungary, which is locally in Britain, which is funded or organised by the European Union, which will be able to take place, and how such no deal Brexit would be affected. As a result, the whole university sector and accreditation issues are also raised. So if you have any answers to that, I'd appreciate it. Thank you.
u2019-11-22-46	Thank you, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Tibor Nunkovics.
u2019-11-22-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I do not want to go into this professionally, because my fellow Member, János Bencsik, has already said that Jobbik will support this proposal, but there was a speech here that I cannot leave without saying, on behalf of Hajnalka Juhász, who said that he had also studied abroad and that he had returned home. This is all very nice, but the fact is that a large part of Hungarians currently residing abroad, I do so, 99 percent did not go abroad or went abroad to go abroad, but went abroad to work and to live because they cannot live at home. And you can laugh, my fellow Member Nacsa, I just want to ask you how many relatives you have abroad. How many relatives live abroad? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-22-48	Thank you, Congressman. The answer is now coming: Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc has the floor. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-22-49	Thank you very much. Mr President, If I may, I wouldn't answer that question. [[Lajos Korózs: He's deflecting!]] I would like to respond to Mr Bencsik's speech on a matter or two for the sake of the minutes. So the fact that a better-looking Member of Parliament in 2019 said that Hungary was the country that would have hindered the halting of mass immigration within Europe [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: That's not what you said!]] Well, that's just outrageous and absurd. Congressman! In this room, you were the ones who prevented mass immigration when you didn't vote for the amendment of the basic law, although you promised earlier. You were the party who has the need to adjust and that is what he is now accusing us of towards Ferenc Gyurcsány, he has a need to adjust to the left. I think I'd like to go over one more sentence. You said that because of the migration from Hungary, the Hungarian families, households lack knowledge, lack of love, lack of work. I would like to reject on behalf of Hungarian workers the fact that there is a lack of knowledge or lack of patriotism, that is absolutely absurd. Obviously, those who work outside of the country also love their country, but questioning whether there is a desire to work or a patriotism in those who work at home, I reject it. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-22-50	Thank you, Congressman. I will give Mr Barna Pál Zsigmond the opportunity to comment in two minutes.
u2019-11-22-51	I would just like to thank the opposition very briefly for the very constructive attitude, except for Jobbik. And it was difficult for us to follow Mr. James Peter's line of thought here... [[János Bencsik: He is not here! Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Excuse me, Congressman Benchik, I apologize. He regularly talks about Jobbik's immigration. I'm not surprised they find themselves hard to find, because they're working in alliance with that Democratic Coalition. [[Dr. Ádám Steinmetz: Is this centrally available?]] which openly supports illegal migration. As I see with regard to national policy, there is confusion in the machinery, as you have made an alliance with the Momentum, and you have entered into the municipal elections together, which broke a 30-year consensus on national policy. It must be very difficult for you to explain to your constituents exactly what you are following in national politics. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-22-52	Thank you. For a two-minute comment, I give the floor to Péter Ungár.
u2019-11-22-53	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to ask my honourable fellow Members that these Fidesz-KDNP communications, if they could be submitted to the MTI OS, not in the debate of a law where I think a fundamentally constructive dialogue has started on the situation of Hungarians living outside, and people who... [[Towards the ranks of the governing parties:]] Don't point at me. You're responsible for your words. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: Don't show me! Towards the benches of Jobbik:]] So he's responsible for his words, everyone's responsible for the words leaving his own mouth, that's the basis of Christian civilization. So don't point fingers, don't give me Fidesz communications, and don't go in a professional debate. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-22-54	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman János Bencsik in a normal time frame.
u2019-11-22-55	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász did not understand why I am bringing the situation of Hungarians in the United Kingdom here, when this does not fit the point. I think it's relevant. What doesn't fit the point is what MEPs Sigismund and Nacsa have said about municipal elections and internal politics. I will be very happy to answer that when another law is debated. [[11.10]] But I would rather go back to the fact that, at the debate on the previous law, my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, said that fortunately he wrote this sentence, so that he could repeat it so that his words would not be altered. I'm going to do the same thing now. I said in my speech that since 2015, you have been working hard to prevent a European solution to tackle mass immigration. These are my words, because you have been interested all along in preventing a common European solution to immigration, because then you would have taken the edge of the internal political propaganda on which your entire political communication has been built over the past four years. Therefore, no more laws, resolutions or statutes were supported that would have supported the ability of European countries to act against this outside the borders of the European Union. [[For signal:]] But that's exactly how it was! And the fact that Jobbik is not making clear or giving a double speech, I would like to warn you or remind you of the fact that if Jobbik did not contribute with his votes in 2015, when you lost two thirds of them, you would not have been able to send soldiers to the southern border. They were able to do this because the better Members supported it. It was self-evident to us that we supported it, but you are exceedingly generously failing, and you are doing everything you can to push this false narrative down people's throats and force it on them. But we know that this is not true, and Parliament's minutes and parliamentary votes tell us about this. Finally, when I said that with hundreds of thousands of Hungarian people being forced abroad, their knowledge, diligence and creativity are lacking in Hungary, I did not say that those who stayed here did not have it. Well, there is so much less knowledge, creativity, diligence and will to do what Hungarians do in other countries. His work, his productive power, is not useful here, but it is only one part, because by breaking up families, by breaking up generationally, and by not only the strong middle-aged men wandering with mass to Western Europe, but also Grandma and Grandpa in most places, whole families, is causing a process of demographic disaster to which the answer will have to be given, and all the other very good and useful family policy measures that the government has taken in recent years cannot compensate for this. So I would like to ask that this be taken into account, and once again I reject the assumption that in any context, I would have used de-honesting markers for citizens who stayed home. It takes a lot of courage for someone to leave their homeland, to have virtually no roots in a new country to build careers and livelihoods, but a real sense of adventure is needed to stay home and try to make a living at home. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: That's right!]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-22-56	Thank you, Congressman. On a two-minute comment, I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Mellár.
u2019-11-22-57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Excuse me, I had to comment on the remarks made by my fellow Member Nacha. Let's be clear. Statistical data show that Hungarian productivity is less than half of the average productivity in the European Union. In terms of dynamics, if the Hungarian GDP increased by 23 per cent to 18 per cent compared to 2010, and employment has increased by 20 per cent, then calculate how much productivity has increased. So, so much for the efficiency of people working here at home, by the way. Of course, it does not follow that the Hungarian people, the Hungarian people who remain in Hungary, are either untalented or not well-trained, but only that they are operating in a very bad, badly organised economic system, because the actual performance of a person is shown by what kind of production system, which production chain they are involved in. The same people who are forced to go abroad, and this is already 600 to 800 thousand, or perhaps even a million, see a miracle, it follows that they are able to achieve a very high productivity level there. Why? Exactly because of that, and precisely because there are well-organised production systems there. So I think it's very important to keep that in mind. That's not gonna be replaced by the 250,000 people who were brought in under the radar as guest workers while anti-migrants are on top. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-22-58	Thank you, Congressman. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see a candidate. I therefore close the general debate and give the floor to Minister Péter Szijjártó.
u2019-11-22-59	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, If I may, I would like to respond once again to the substantive elements, thanking all opposition parties for their support for this bill in addition to the ruling parties. If I may, Mr Nunkovich, simply as a courtesy, without taking over all the personalities you have brought up here, I would like to say to you that the question of how many relatives live abroad may seem like a good joke, but it may open up wounds that you may not want to open. I have very close relatives abroad. And do you know why? [[Tibor Nunkovics: Me too! I think it's more!]] Do you know why? I don't want to compete here because we don't know. But do you know why? They never moved from where they lived, you know? They never moved from where they lived, and yet they live abroad, and I stood in line on the Danube Bridge in Komárom for hours as a child to get through to them. So how many relatives live abroad, I think it's a suggestion... [[Tibor Nunkovics: That is not what we were talking about, Minister, not this category.]] That's why I'm saying this general... [[Tibor Nunkovics: This is not the category!]] The category of which the honourable Member is talking about has not been specified. I just wanted to bring it to your attention with good intentions. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] I am not sure that this type of personalism does not open wounds that are not worth opening, but I do not want to argue about it, honourable Member. If that's not what he meant. [[Tibor Nunkovics: Not like this!]] Then I guess we can all be happy about it. Ladies and gentlemen, So as regards mass immigration and the European response to it, Mr Bencsik is right, because we really did not want the European decision to be taken that Brussels believes would be a European solution to migration. The decision in Brussels concerns the management of migration and the inspiration of migration, and the migration policy in Brussels is an encouragement for people to start their journey and come to Europe. We are truly committed... to what you have rightly said, I mean that it is right that you said that, because we did not wish to be part of this European political decision, and that will be the case in the future. We will not give our name or support to any European policy that will lead to further migration flows in Europe which pose a security risk. Keeping the mandatory quota on a permanent agenda, opening up Italian ports, constantly criticising the anti-migration countries is nothing more than statements or decisions to launch new migration flows, or at least the preparation of them. So we were in a debate, and you're right about that. There has been, and there has been, a huge debate in Europe on the issue of mass migration, and in contrast to mainstream, we are also right to take the view that only legally arriving people in Europe should be allowed entry and that illegal immigrants should not enter Europe, and that illegal immigrants should not enter for any reason. Our borders must be protected, and it is only on the basis of national competence that it is possible to decide who lets whom into their own country and who wants to live with them. This is a huge debate, and we will endure in this debate. Therefore, we will not contribute to the application of any compulsory resettlement quota. Border protection must be the number one aspect. Every country has the right to decide who they let in and who they live with, and to bring help where trouble is, and not to bring trouble here. Honourable Congressman, I would like to tell you or you that this year, until the end of October, the Turks have reported 350 thousand illegal border crossings, 350 thousand. This is 80,000 more than in the whole year of 2017. In the Western Balkans, 100,000 illegal immigrants have been repelled, who pose a daily safety risk to the people living there, who are already organizing patrols in their own circles in order to ensure their own safety and physical integrity. So this type of European policy is not the solution. We continue to believe that every European nation has the right to preserve its national identity, preserve its historical, religious or cultural heritage. [[11.20]] If we can work together on this, it is good; if not, the government will do everything in its power. It used to be here, and I would call it a misunderstanding with goodwill, and it was not a political misdirection, but I would like to put it in parentheses: it has not been said now, it has been said several times, when the free movement of people between countries within the European Union is confused with migration issues. The two have nothing to do with each other. As regards Hungarians living abroad, studying and working abroad, I would just like to remind you that there is a party here in Parliament that campaigned alongside our membership of the European Union to open a cafe in Vienna, and I do not know where to learn and where to go in the European Union. There is a party here, and we do not cooperate with it, and I would like to point out, but the fact is that today Hungarian citizens are working abroad, and citizens of all other European Union countries are working within the European Union, taking advantage of the free movement of people, is a phenomenon that we must live with in the coming years. The extent of that is the question, you are right. And in this connection, I would like to draw your attention with due respect to the fact that last year has been the first year when more people have returned to Hungary than have left Hungary from the point of view of working, and that is a fact, and I hope that they are happy about it. [[Interventions from the benches of the governing parties, including: That's right.]] I don't want to put this on a political level right now, it's a figure fact. What I would like to say to you is that I would like to report to you once I have the opportunity to say that it is not only so, but that it must be so. So, for example, we, for our part, always hold job fairs together with large Hungarian investors in the embassy that many Hungarians live and work in the field of competence or geographical surveillance. To give you an example, for example, when BlackRock decided in 2017, which is the world's largest financial fund manager, by the way, to create its global innovation centre in Budapest, so much for the added value of the Hungarian economy, we organized a joint job fair at the London Embassy. Within an hour, more than a hundred Hungarians working in London or the United Kingdom have submitted their applications to work in the centre of BlackRock in Budapest, and it is necessary to see the percentage of the employees of these large service centres who have already returned to Hungary. That is why I am working, honourable Member, and I hope that I can have your support for this, too, so that this ratio continues to increase. 'Cause there's gonna be a sign that over the course of nine years, the average salary has increased by 70 percent. There must also be evidence that, while the average wage at the workplace created by new investments in Hungary at the end of 2017, the average wage was 304 thousand forints, honourable Member, and 456 thousand forints on 31 October this year. So 50 percent increase over more than a year and a half, this is due to the general wage growth trend, but also due to the fact that the added value, technological quality and research and development content of the jobs arriving is already playing in a completely different league than it was a year and a half ago. And the fact that there were more people coming home last year than the number of people who left the country must have been the result. Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the productivity of the Hungarian economy, it is now obvious that as a former student of economics, it would be rude and inappropriate for me to take the liberty of arguing with Professor, and I would therefore like to offer some data to the attention of the professor with due respect. Perhaps we can agree that a good measure of the productivity, efficiency and international competitiveness of an economy is how much it can export, i.e. how competitive it can be in international markets. If we agree on this, then it is worth seeing what this looks like in Hungary. In Hungary, the share of exports and GDP is 84,9 percent. With this, we stand in the sixth place in the European Union, but all five countries and economies ahead are smaller than ours, so the denominator is smaller and therefore the numerator becomes more important. 88.9 percent, I think, highlights a very exceptional productivity and international competitiveness, just as it obviously should show our productivity and competitiveness, and I think that the share of direct foreign working capital and GDP is the highest in Central Europe. And obviously there must also be some kind of competitiveness indicator that we have all closed the last five years by breaking the national investment record, and I think that investment in BMW, Audi, Mercedes, BlackRock, Continental, Thermo Fisher cannot be classified as going to a country with uncompetitive or low productivity. Therefore, if I may, I would not use the term entry into the debate; once again, with a professor, I would like to say that these figures, at least their trend, show that the Hungarian economy is clearly improving in a European and global comparison, because I think that with the 92nd largest population in the world, we would not be able to produce the 34th largest export performance in the world if the Hungarian economy were not productive and efficient. You are right that there is a significant share of foreign-owned companies in the production of exports from Hungary, but these companies... [[Dr. Tamás Mellar intervenes.]] Yeah, yeah, that's what I'm saying, you're right, you don't have to argue, because you're right, but these foreign-owned companies have 95 percent of Hungarians working. So this export performance comes from the performance of the Hungarian people, of course, as a result of the emergence of foreign capital, I do not dispute that. However, if you will allow me, I would like to say with respect to Mr Ungár's question: the rights of students with EU citizenship starting their university studies in the United Kingdom before Brexit do not change when they leave unorganized. The tuition fees of the studies started are not changed, so they remain unchanged, and they do not have to pay the same amount in the case of Scotland, he said correctly as the British students, and the fees are based on the statements of the representatives of the British Government, which I am now afraid to say, because there is still a British government in office, but on 12 December, who knows what kind of British government will be in office, so, according to the statements known so far, they will not change in the 19-20 academic year or beyond. It is difficult to say how educational and scientific cooperation will develop with a government of current unknown composition, but what I can tell you is that these educational and scientific cooperations that you have rightly referred to have been a source of income for the British economy, and so if we approach the issue rationally, which is, of course, not always the right assumption, then I can tell you that in the case of a Brexit, it does not seem to be in the interest of the United Kingdom to make any kind of difficulties in these programmes. But what I can tell you is that, on the one hand, I am grateful to you for bringing this up, and we will pay special attention to this, and after the next British government takes office, we will, of course, discuss this with future foreign minister and future minister of education colleagues, and I will try to shape things in such a way that it will be as favourable as possible for Hungarian students. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for your support for this bill, which, I think, once again, serves the same Hungarian and British national interests. Thank you very much. [[Applause for the governing parties, sporadic applause from the benches of the opposition parties.]]
u2019-11-22-60	Thank you, Minister. The amendments were submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. The general debate on the draft law on the publication of an investment protection agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, of the other part, is now under way. The government referral is T/7686. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I will also give the floor to Minister Peter Szijjártó.
u2019-11-22-61	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Once again, fellow Members, Here, in today's debates, we can talk about changes in the world economy, which may not exaggerate us to say that a new world order has come forward or that we have entered a new world economy era. The point is that, in this situation, the European Union is seeking cooperation beyond regions with the emerging regions of the world from which the source of growth can come in the coming periods. [[11.30]] The European Union is negotiating free trade agreements with a number of countries in the Far East. Unfortunately, as a general observation during these negotiations, it can be said that they are moving terribly slowly, even though Hungary would be in the best interest of the world economy to be as open and free as possible, the less bureaucratic or economic, tariff-like barriers to trade are imposed. Once again, I would like to point out the fact that it is in the interests of a country such as ours that, in the world economy, there must be as little obstacles as possible in the way of countries or economies wishing to trade or cooperate with each other. The bill before you adds a whole new element to the legislative framework for economic relations between Hungary as a Member State of the European Union and Vietnam. The objective of this legislation to be published and of the agreement is to provide new legal guarantees for economic relations between the Member States of the European Union and Vietnam, and also for investment relations within the European Union, the investment environment in Vietnam provides for safer conditions for investors from the European Union. This agreement, if we look at the Hungarian aspects, thus ensures that the investments of Hungarian investors in Vietnam are protected and legal certainty, and also contains points in terms of encouraging investment by Vietnamese companies in the European Union. Vietnam is an important destination for the European Union's external economic strategy. Ladies and gentlemen, One of the most important elements of the European Union's external economic strategy is to support the investment of companies from the countries of the European Union in the Far East in order to strengthen the European economy by returning to the European Union. The European Union supports economic presence in the Southeast Asian region by means of investment protection agreements. This is the second agreement of the European Union on free trade with a country in the region, the first was concluded by the European Union with Singapore. The free trade agreement with Vietnam is also important for the European Union because the whole South East Asian region, as they say, can also be opened to the ASEAN region, in particular with regard to the fact that the European Union is currently having discussions with Malaysia, Thailand, the Philippines and Indonesia, or are in a frozen state, so that a more active trade or economic cooperation can be established with this region. Vietnam is the second largest trading partner in the European Union in this region after Singapore. I would also like to inform you that the main purpose of this agreement is to ensure that the protection of investments from the European Union and Vietnam is covered by appropriate legal guarantees in each other's countries and in each other's territories, and this is particularly important in the fair and impartial settlement of disputes that may arise against the State. Hungarian investors and their investments can therefore rely on this EU agreement to provide international legal protection in resolving any disputes they may have. Ladies and gentlemen, Under the Investment Protection Agreement, the mutual investment of each country is to be protected from establishment. The Agreement consists of 4 chapters and 13 annexes, including standards on fair and equitable treatment and anti-discrimination provisions, rules on direct and indirect expropriation, rules on the establishment of a permanent Court of First Instance and Appeal Forum, which, by the way, consist of members appointed by the Parties, and contains strict compliance with the independence of the arbitration panel. Integrity and ethical conduct shall be ensured by a mandatory code of conduct contained in the Agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, This investment protection agreement concluded by the European Union is also important for Hungary because several Hungarian companies are currently investing in Vietnam. Back in 2008, the Socialist Government concluded a bond-aid credit agreement with Vietnam, according to which Hungarian companies carried out water-cleaning and electronic population registration projects worth EUR 20 million in total; then, in 2016, another tied-aid credit agreement was signed, which led to the construction of an oncology hospital in Vietnam by Hungarian companies worth EUR 60 million; and a EUR 440 million fixed-aid loan programme is currently being implemented, under which Hungarian companies are investing in water management, health and electronic administration in Vietnam. So there is a significant Hungarian company presence, one of the focal points of the Hungarian foreign economic strategy in the Far East and South East Asia, therefore Vietnam, which is why it was important for us that the European Union conclude this investment protection agreement, and this investment protection agreement also helps the Hungarian companies in Vietnam in terms of legal certainty. I therefore call on my fellow Members to adopt this bill in order to support Hungarian foreign economic efforts and Hungarian companies operating in Vietnam. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-22-62	Thank you, Minister. The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Barna Pál Sigismund, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2019-11-22-63	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Vietnam is a key partner country in Hungary's eastern relations; I also stress to my colleague Tamás Mellár that we are interested not only in Turk relations but also in other relations. In recent years, a colourful, multidimensional and modern cooperation has gradually developed between our countries, which is committed to further development by both the Vietnamese and the Hungarian parties. Vietnam is a remarkable economic and social development, largely due to a balanced and pragmatic policy of the country's government. Our partner's annual economic growth is persistently above 6 percent and, in economic terms, has become one of the most open Asian countries, where foreign trade accounts for nearly 200 percent of GDP Put it out there. Vietnam's foreign trade balance ended with a surplus of $21.3 billion in 2018. It is also noted that Vietnam's gross national product increased by 7.1 percent according to the data of the Vietnamese State Statistical Office. From the outset, Hungary has consistently supported the early signing and conclusion of the free trade and investment protection agreements negotiated with Vietnam. The investment protection agreement offers favourable conditions and will provide further incentives for mutually beneficial development of our bilateral trade and investment relations and will provide substantial economic benefits for both Hungary and Vietnam. The history of this international treaty began in June 2012, when negotiations on a bilateral free trade agreement between the European Union and Vietnam were launched. The formal conclusion of the negotiations was notified on 2 December 2015. It was also decided to split the agreement into a free trade agreement falling within the exclusive competence of the EU and an investment protection agreement covering areas with shared competence with the Member States. The objective of the FTA and the investment protection agreement is to develop and facilitate economic relations between the parties, in particular by making the conditions for investment activities in their respective territories more favourable, safer and thus by encouraging investment. The investment protection agreement contains modern investment protection rules that will be implemented through the new investment court system and ensures that the governments of both parties can establish legislation taking into account the interests of their citizens in accordance with the agreement. The Free Trade and Investment Protection Agreement between the European Union and Vietnam was signed in Hanoi on 30 June 2019. The adoption of the investment protection agreement will take longer, given the need for all Member States to ratify the agreement so that it can enter into force at EU level. The Investment Protection Agreement was signed by Hungary on 26 July 2019 in Brussels after obtaining the necessary legal power to do so. [[11.40]] Following its entry into force, the agreement therefore provides an opportunity to increase trade and support jobs and growth for both parties. We therefore support the adoption of the investment protection agreement on the part of Fidesz, given Vietnam's dynamically expanding economy and the traditionally developed Hungarian-Vietnam foreign economic relations. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-22-64	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Andrea Varga-Damm, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2019-11-22-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/7686 in front of us. The bill contains the provisions of the investment protection rules between Vietnam and the European Union. On 26 June 2012, the European Union's Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Partnership and Cooperation with the Socialist Republic of Vietnam was concluded and the Free Trade Agreement between the European Union and Vietnam was signed on 26 June 2019. Vietnam and Hungary were already quite close in the socialist system, but, in fact, all the roads Vietnam has travelled to this day are thanks to Western Europe and North American companies. This investment protection agreement aims to increase living standards and promote economic growth. Vietnam's development in recent decades has been incredibly, incredibly high, and Vietnam is now East Asia XXI. It's called a century-old tiger. Between 1960 and 1980, Vietnam was one of the 20 poorest countries in the world, with a GDP per capita of only $450 a year. Many companies, tens of thousands of companies settled in Vietnam from the developed Western world, of course building their economic activity on cheap labour. On the other hand, the countries of Western Europe and North America have let their own citizens down quite a bit, since the exports of economic organizations to cheap labour have resulted in the loss of jobs for the citizens of domestic countries. Vietnam's exports already amount to more than 220 billion dollars a year, and Vietnam doubled its performance in virtually five years. Vietnam is also the most globalised country, given that the volume of imports of exports divided by GDP, Vietnam's international trade performance already doubled its gross national product production in 2017. This is a change in volume and an outlier compared to other countries, which is virtually impossible to find in the economic history of the last hundreds of years. In 1990, the GDP per capita in Vietnam was $1,500, and today it is $6,500. In the 1990s, 70 percent of the population in Vietnam lived in extreme poverty and only 10 percent in 2016. Compared with our country: In 1990 we had a share of 12.8 percent of the poor, and in recent decades it has been very high, but still 15 percent in 2018, so they were able to achieve such a huge improvement, while thirty years actually caused some deterioration. It can now be said that such an investment protection agreement between the Union and Vietnam, for example, is no longer primarily in the interest of Vietnam, but rather in the interest of the European Union. Between Europe and Asia, there has been quite a shift in economic development. If anyone goes to any developing country in Asia, then he sees the towers growing, an amazing amount of economic factors are settled, and the living standards of the citizens of the countries are rapidly increasing. The growth in economic performance mentioned by my former Fidesz fellow Member surpasses that of Europe. So Europe needs to think about the fact that, with the help of exported economic factors, those countries have been able to make great progress, so we are no longer concerned that Asia is the model for Asia, but Europe is the model for Asia. This conclusion must be drawn because, while we are building our future from the mind of the European omnipotence, whether on social or economic issues, we are unfortunately at a dead end, because it can also be said that Asian countries have made progress because of the globalised world, but have never lost their national identity. [[Peter Szijjártó nods.]] They never give up their principles, and very cleverly, they use the whole world to increase their economic performance and standard of living. So it's good for us to learn from them and never, ever look down on them. Of course, the Jobbik faction supports this investment protection agreement, and I would like to ask, in particular, my fellow politicians, that such patterns be taken very strongly into account in their daily activities, political beliefs and political conclusions. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-22-66	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2019-11-22-67	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, I agree on a lot of things that my colleague Andrea Varga-Damm said earlier, and we fully agree that we have something to learn from these countries, and we must always speak to them in the voice of mutual respect and not in the voice of lecture. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] No one, that's true of every country. This is why we often did not understand Jobbik's criticism of the strategy and policy of Eastern opening, because that is exactly what it is about. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes]] It is precisely about treating these countries as equal partners, which we can gain and transpose there, bringing them to Hungary, getting the Hungarian companies a market in these countries, and thus always starting cooperation in the voice of mutual respect. That is precisely what the Eastern opening policy is all about, and the principle of the Eastern opening policy is based on exactly the principles that the Congresswoman has said here in front of the House, so I think we agree on that, and that is the right thing to do. We, on the part of the KDNP fraction, support the implementation of the EU-Vietnam Investment Protection Agreement as a result of the agreement of the 28 Member States of the European Union. We consider it important that we can shape our investments and our economic relations with Vietnam in a predictable way as a European Union country, guaranteed by a number of legal safeguards. The aim of the agreement is to develop and facilitate economic relations between the Union and Vietnam, with investment promotion as a key element. Thanks to this agreement, the investment activities planned in Vietnam can be implemented under more favourable conditions and in a safer, more predictable way. The agreement defines the concept of investment and outlines the need to create favourable investment conditions. One of the main purposes of the agreement is to provide the parties' investors with legal guarantees to protect their investments. In particular, it is important for investors to settle disputes that may arise, even against the State, with fair, impartial, arbitration. This agreement, we believe, can be an incentive for Hungarian investments in Vietnam, as well as for investments in Vietnam here in Hungary. For Hungary, this investment protection agreement, as I said earlier, is particularly suited to our external economic and foreign policy objectives and our Eastern opening strategy. I think that there is huge competition in the world, including among European countries, for markets in rapidly developing Asian countries, for economic and commercial relations with them. Economic relations between Hungary and Vietnam are growing dynamically. From an economic point of view, Vietnam has now become one of the most open Asian countries, which provides an excellent business opportunity for capitalised Hungarian businesses. [[11.50]] As the congresswoman said, the various international forecasts show that Vietnam will be one of the fastest growing economies in the world for the next 30 years. As regards bilateral trade flows in Hungary and Vietnam, there has been a steady increase since 2012. In 2017, our bilateral trade turnover amounted to $357 million, an increase of 78.9 percent compared to 2016 in the previous year. Hungary launched a EUR 500 million tied aid loan programme in 2016, enabling us to participate in such important places in the modern dynamically developing Vietnamese economy as water management, agriculture, health care and education. We support the Hungarian government's opening policy towards Vietnam, which was also raised to the level of the strategic partnership last year. It is therefore important that we constantly strengthen and deepen our relations with Vietnam, because Vietnam's success and rapid economic development have led to a huge competition for Vietnam. The largest countries in the world are also seeking an alliance with Vietnam, an excellent example of this is the agreement before us, which proves that Europe has also recognised the potential of Vietnam and has concluded an investment protection agreement that has encouraged economic relations, which the Hungarian government has been a great supporter of from the beginning. Hungary has also achieved significant cooperation with Vietnam in the field of cultural relations in recent years. In 2020, a Hungarian cultural and community centre will be opened in Hanoi, on the 70th anniversary of the admission of diplomatic relations between Hungary and Vietnam. Hungary grants two hundred students from Vietnam a scholarship to study at Hungarian universities. We are also proud of the fact that over the past decades, some 3,000 Vietnamese students have graduated from Hungary. This also proves that Hungarian higher education is high-quality and competitive, which is in demand all over the world. We support the publication of the agreement. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-22-68	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2019-11-22-69	I do not want to add to the word, because my colleague Andrea Varga-Damm gave me very detailed and precise details of the substance of the law and the reasons why it is worth supporting it. So I'd like to join his comment [[Nacsa Lőrinc: What about ours?]] I would also like to announce that the MSZP faction supports this initiative. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-22-70	Thank you, Congressman. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm submitted a two-minute comment. You have the floor.
u2019-11-22-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to answer to my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Eastern opening and support for the Vietnamese people and economy are not the same. On the one hand, Vietnam is southeast, so it's not east. I'd like to explain this only for geographical reasons. The other is that, in connection with the Eastern opening, if you have watched the debate over recent years, it is about that we can never deliver our sovereignty, but the motives in the opening of the East have shown us quite strongly enough that, indeed, we are very open on a number of issues that we are not particularly open to the countries of Southeast Asia, but to the Soviet successor states and, in part, China and Russia, which can never cross the line with which our own political path and possibly inviolability and sovereignty can be compromised. They're not related. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-11-22-72	Thank you, Congresswoman. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I'll give you a chance to reciprocate. [[Peter Szijjártó says no.]] He also indicated, Minister, that he did not wish to comment on this clear debate; it was not really a debate. So we're moving on. The amendments can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Thursday. The general discussion of the bill between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Montenegro on the publication of the Protocol between the Hungarian People's Republic/Hungarian Republic and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia/ Federal Republic of Yugoslavia/Serbia and Montenegro on the roll-over of State in bilateral international treaties until its conclusion. The submission is T/7688. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I will also give the floor to Minister Peter Szijjártó.
u2019-11-22-73	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Following the break-up of Yugoslavia, the former Yugoslav Member States won and announced their independence in a row. First was Slovenia and Croatia on June 25, 1991, followed by Macedonia in the same year and then by Bosnians in 1992. On 27 April 1992, Serbia and Montenegro formally formed the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which was now only two member republics, which then transformed into the State Federation of Serbia and Montenegro on 4 February 2003. Finally, after a successful referendum on 3 June 2006, Montenegro declared its independence, and thus the two-member alliance also ceased to exist. Then Montenegro became a Member State of the United Nations on 28 June 2006, and since then we know that it is a candidate of the European Union and since 2017 it is a member country of NATO. Following the break-up of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Hungary and all other countries, of course, had to clarify the further fate of contracts concluded with former Yugoslavia, with former Yugoslav public companies, which are in force and which contracts are drawn out of their scope. In the past, Hungary has managed to resolve this issue with Croatia, Slovenia, the Republic of Northern Macedonia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, but Montenegro and I have not yet been able to put an end to this issue. It was therefore necessary to clarify the way in which the international treaties have been concluded. Since 2006, negotiations have taken place, following several rounds of experts, on 28 February 2019, so at the end of this year we were able to close the third round of negotiations and we have established a list of international treaties that remain in force in bilateral relations or are to be terminated. Finally, this year, on 25 September, during the period of the UN General Assembly in New York, we signed a bilateral agreement that created a clear and transparent situation. Of course, this protocol is important in shaping bilateral relations between Hungary and Montenegro, and it is only possible to talk about bilateral relations with positive indicators. Hungary has always supported Montenegro's accession to NATO, the NATO contact embassy was also Hungarian immediately before accession, and of course we support the European Union integration efforts of the Montenegrin people. We are ashamed that the European Union has not opened the negotiating chapter that would be the last one in the accession negotiations for over a year now. We believe that more than a year would have been enough to open one more accession negotiation chapter. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Moreover, the quality of our political cooperation with Montenegro also comes back in terms of trade and economic cooperation. Last year we were able to increase trade flows between the two countries by 27 percent, which increased to EUR 92.8 million. We have already exceeded EUR 70 million in the first eight months of this year, which represents a 14 percent periodic increase in comparison. The Hungarian companies are particularly happy to choose Montenegro as an investment site in their investments. For example, we can say that the largest Hungarian bank is also the largest bank in Montenegro. Ladies and gentlemen, This Protocol is an international treaty, so the Parliament must decide on it under the laws in force. I therefore respectfully ask my fellow Members to support this proposal, which will lead to a clear and clear situation in the contractual relations between Montenegro and Hungary, many decades after the break-up of Yugoslavia. Thank you very much for your kind attention. Mr President, thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-22-74	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to welcome you. There will be speeches by the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Sigmond Barna Pál. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-11-22-75	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Minister, After the break-up of the former Yugoslavia, the State Union of Serbia and Montenegro also ceased on 3 June 2006, when Montenegro declared independence following a successful referendum. As regards accession to the European Union, Montenegro was granted candidate status in 2010. Accession negotiations started in June 2012 but are moving very slowly and Montenegro is dissatisfied with the pace of enlargement policy. [[12.00]] In their view, the EU's hesitant position on enlargement has made other political orientation interests increasingly evident in the Western Balkans region. Nevertheless, they are determined to continue the process of integration, with significant social support, and count on Hungary's further support. I would like to conclude the negotiation process by 2023. The purpose of this international treaty is to create a clear and transparent position in relation to international treaties between our countries. It is important, like the Protocols on State Departure with the Member States that have already been replaced, that such an agreement be concluded with the Montenegrin Party. The Protocol contains a list of international treaties in force and repeals a number of outdated treaties, resolving the legal uncertainty that has arisen previously. The bilateral international treaties shall, without the need for completeness, settle common matters such as the carriage of goods by truck, the international carriage of passengers by coach, the mutual assistance agreement or the regulation of the customs procedure. I respectfully request the support of my fellow Members for the legislation. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-11-22-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Ádám Steinmetz. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-22-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, The Protocol before us was signed by the Government of Hungary and the Government of Montenegro on 25 September 2019 in New York on the continuity of international treaties concluded by the Hungarian People's Republic and the Republic of Hungary and the former Yugoslavia and Serbia-Montenegro. In order to recognise the mandatory scope of the Protocol, Parliament, so you, my fellow Members, give us the authority, and this is the T/7688, which is now in front of us. It will be announced by the adoption of bill No 1. Ladies and gentlemen, As President of the Hungarian-Montenegro Group of Friends of the Interparlamentary Union, I would like to inform you that Montenegro, as the last member republic, left the Federation on 3 June 2006 following a successful referendum and became independent. Montenegro is now a member of the United Nations and NATO, and it is hoped that soon we will be able to include them as members of the European Union and welcome them there. As the Minister has just said, there is a good relationship between the two countries, Montenegro and Hungary, which I am very pleased about, and at the same time take this opportunity to ask the Minister to do everything possible to enable the countries of the Western Balkans, including Montenegro, to join the European Union as soon as possible. [[Peter Szijjártó nods.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Montenegro, as we have heard, has extensive economic and trade relations. Thus, it has not been said in this form, but I would like to note here that Hungarian working capital is also significant in the Balkan country. In view of this, it is also necessary to settle the bilateral international contractual relationship between the two countries in order to mention a few, such as the treaty governing international freight, international passenger transport or the treaty on mutual assistance and the avoidance of double taxation, and, ladies and gentlemen, in view of all of this, I will propose to the Jobbik Group that the bill be supported. Finally, I would like to ask the honourable Minister a few questions and ask him to answer. Minister, why did we have to wait 13 years to prepare and publish the report? Which country is to blame for the fact that our international contractual relations with Montenegro, which became independent in 2006, have only now been resolved? And why wasn't the treaty system clear between the two countries so far? I hope I get some answers. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-22-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-22-79	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, The Hungarian-Montenegro relations are stable and balanced, which is further strengthened by the protocol before us, with which Hungary and Montenegro recognise a number of bilateral, important international treaties which we have previously concluded with Yugoslavia as in force. The relationship between the two countries has no difficulty, and in recent years there has been a lot of positive changes in our bilateral relations. This cooperation gives the two countries a particular boost to their relations. Our economic cooperation with Montenegro is growing, and Hungary can now participate as an investor abroad, thanks to its 5 percent economic growth. Serious investments have been made in Montenegro from Hungary in recent years, where Hungarian capital is welcome and Hungary's role in modernising the Montenegrin economy. We Hungarians have supported and supported Montenegro's Euroatlantic integration on a principled and strategic basis from a historical community of fate. NATO and EU membership are the pledges of peace in the Balkans, and without peaceful Balkan relations, we cannot speak of Europe's security. It is a great pleasure for us that Montenegro has now become a member of NATO, and this step also contributes significantly to the stability of the Balkans. The next step would be EU membership for the Balkan country, and we find it tragic and incomprehensible that this year the European Union has decided not to launch accession negotiations with Albania and Northern Macedonia. We regard this as a big mistake and a bad decision, just as the way the European Union treats Serbia or Montenegro is an outrageous and bad approach. Brussels is only taking time here, delaying the accession of Serbia and, for example, Montenegro for various imaginary reasons, which threatens the peace and stability of the region. We therefore believe that negotiations with the Western Balkan countries should be speeded up, and the European Union should at least adopt Serbia and Montenegro into the European Union before 2025. We believe that the inclusion of Balkan countries is not a challenge, not a burden for the European Union, but a great opportunity. The date of their accession must not be constantly pushed, otherwise these countries will look for alternative integration options and the credibility of the European Union will also be decreated. It would be desirable for both European and Hungarian security to have Serbia and Montenegro join the EU as soon as possible in order to push the border of the European Union as far south as possible. Thus, migration could be stopped much earlier and there would be no chaos in migrant camps in the Balkans. Our relationship with Montenegro is constantly growing in the fields of culture and tourism. Montenegro is also becoming an increasingly popular place among Hungarian tourists, despite the small size of Montenegro, there is great interest in Hungarians, so cultural, tourism, economic and political relations are also stable and strong. We are therefore obviously in favour of the publication of the Protocol, and we are asking the Minister, as has been the case so far, to do everything to ensure Montenegro's integration into the European Union and the Euroatlantic integration of the Western Balkans. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-11-22-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Attila Mesterházy. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-11-22-81	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to point out that the MSZP faction is also in favour of this proposal. I would like to add to the Minister's one comment or one sentence, which my fellow Members have already mentioned, which is the question of the Western Balkans. I think that, on the part of the European Union and in this, I would just like to express my agreement here in the Hungarian Parliament, the decision of the European Union on the Western Balkans is a wrong, wrong decision, and I also believe that Hungary has an elementary interest and an elemental national interest in allowing the Western Balkans to join the European Union as quickly as possible. I trust that the Hungarian Commissioner, who is now to be elected, shares this view and will pursue this activity. Montenegro is certainly one of the countries whose accession to the European Union could perhaps be the most unsettling, because, as my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, has indicated, we are talking about a NATO country. So in this respect, with my own system of contacts, I will also try to lobby or provide information to various foreign colleagues, with which perhaps this, these decisions can be changed and speeded up this process. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-11-22-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. The Minister has already checked in for the closing, and I'll give him the floor. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor. [[12.10]]
u2019-11-22-83	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for your statements in support of the bill. I would also like to say to Congressman Steinmetz and Congressman Mesterházy, but also to the members of the Government that, of course, the enlargement of the European Union remains one of the focus of Hungarian foreign policy. We believe that the European Union's enlargement policy is one of the most important European policies. Perhaps we, who live in the region and are directly bordering, neighbouring to the Western Balkans, understand better than our Western European friends understand the importance of this region from a security, economic and political point of view. Perhaps we also understand better than our Western European friends the phenomenon of why it should not be considered so natural or guaranteed that the public opinion of the Western Balkan countries is naturally European or Euroatlantic. So in order to keep it that way, work will have to be done in the future. I think that the European Union policy, which is based instead of encouraging, on the search for lectures and permanent shortcomings, is wrong in this regard, because I see the danger here on the horizon that if we wait too long for positive feedback, the public in these countries will ask the current government: but why do you make so many compromises; we are sure to go in the right direction, while we are not getting any positive feedback or any kind of encouragement? I think that this situation should be avoided, because Serbia has also entered the Eurasian Economic Union, which, in their view, is a completely understandable step and an understandable decision. Let us say that even the European Union can benefit from this later, because the more countries that are interested both in the Eurasian Economic Union and in the European Union, the easier it is to establish an East-West cooperation, which is also in our interest as Hungarians in national economy and national security. But the point is that the European Union does have to work to maintain European thoughtfulness and support for European integration in the Western Balkans. This sense of carelessness is a little similar to what the European Commission has shown in the Brexit referendum before the Brexit referendum, when it was not possible to imagine in Brussels that people in England would vote against membership of the European Union. So I think that we should take a step back from this role, in which the European Commission is currently in place, and I think it is good news from this point of view that enlargement will go to the Hungarian Commissioner. After all, the Commissioner responsible for enlargement and neighbourhood policy will finally be the candidate of a country that prioritises this area. I think that this year should open the last negotiating chapter with the Montenegrin. If our Finnish friends, beyond the rule of law lecture, see a little further and have time to deal with something else, then, for example, they could open this last negotiating chapter. In principle, the next intergovernmental negotiation round is scheduled for 10 December if our Finnish friends do not resign because they will have other things to do. So we hope that they will be able to allocate adequate resources here, and that the Finnish Presidency will also take care of other important issues. I believe that the Serbian accession process is as important as the Montenegrin. I also think it is a bad decision, and I tell you honestly that the General Affairs Council and then the European Council were unable to decide whether to start accession negotiations with the North Macedonians and Albanians. So if there is no positive feedback, then sooner or later we can face challenges in terms of commitment that we do not want to face. The congressman has quite rightly brought up the period. If you'll allow me, if I don't want to escape responsibility, I can tell you about my own time. So when I began to review the situation regarding international treaties after I took office, for example, I thought it was a legitimate question to colleagues in the Ministry that a foreign minister, regardless of the person, might sign an agreement, and then, say, in a few months' time, ask what is going on with that agreement, and it is still not submitted to Parliament for ratification. So I asked the simple question of what is more important for colleagues in the Ministry than to submit an international treaty signed by the Minister of Foreign Affairs or by any member of the Government for ratification, which is not one of the most complicated administrative tasks. As a result, a number of, let me say, updates have been made in the Ministry's staff, and I have made the rule that the agreement signed by the Government should be submitted to Parliament within five days of the delegation's arrival home because it is necessary to bring the corpus home for ratification. What was here, in this particular case, once before a visit to Montenegro, I sensed some uncertainty in the preparation material regarding bilateral contracts. In this connection, I asked the competent colleague to provide an explanation, and it became clear that the former staff and leaders of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs had not previously carried out this work with the Montenegrin because of the passage of state. So I immediately ordered that we proceed quickly. In January 2017, there was the first professional consultation with the Montenegrin people, and then in December 2018, and then we were able to conclude the text. So from January 2017, as the Montenegrin put time and energy into this, we were able to move forward with this agreement. So I completely agree with you, and I myself was outraged by the fact that there are people in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs who have something more important to do than to be able to write a ratification proposal in five days. We've all been divorced, I'd like to signal, and now we've been able to respect this method in an interesting way. So that's why this agreement is here. So we picked up in January 2017, and that's how long it took. It's against my taste, but since there were two negotiators sitting at the table, I can't take responsibility for the other party. In any case, thank you for raising these questions, and thank you for the preliminary support expressed by the parties. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-22-84	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear House, It was possible to submit amendments on Thursday, which is until 16:00 yesterday. A general discussion of the bill for the Economic Partnership, Political Coordination and Cooperation Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the United Mexican States, of the other part, is now taking place, pending the conclusion of the bill for the publication of a third Additional Protocol to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Government referral T/8001. On the House's IT network, it is available to all of them. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. I give the floor to Minister Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Minister.
u2019-11-22-85	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, The long-term agreement on cooperation between the European Union and Mexico, which you quoted in errorless terms, was signed in Brussels at the end of 1997 and subsequently entered into force in October 2000, and because it not only covers economic cooperation issues but also covers issues of almost all aspects of life, this agreement is generally referred to as an EU-Mexico global agreement. It has been long since 2000, and due to the changes in the world and the increase in the importance attributed to bilateral relations, it was decided six years ago at the summit of the European Union and the Caribbean and Central American countries that this global agreement between the European Union and Mexico will be modernised and extended, in particular, in the area of animal and plant health measures, non-tariff barriers to trade, as well as in the area of new areas such as investment protection, which we have been able to discuss with regard to Vietnam. The EU-Mexico global agreement has so far been amended by three additional protocols, all of which, as the current one, were needed because the number of EU Member States has increased. [[12.20]] The first Additional Protocol was necessary just when Hungary and the Central European countries joined the European Union, so the first Additional Protocol entered into force on 1 February 2005. The second additional protocol was necessary because the Romanians and Bulgarians joined the European Union. This second amendment has been in force since 1 February 2008, which I have only to refer back to Mr Steinmetz's previous legitimate dissatisfaction, and in 2011, the Hungarian Parliament has succeeded in publishing it, so the Parliament has wrestled with this additional protocol for three years. We're a little better than that right now. Although the situation appears to have taken place in 2011 following the accession of Croatia, this Protocol was signed in Brussels on 26 November 2018, and the previous three-and-a-half-year ratification process is now being pushed down to one year. There's still room for improvement, that's what it says. The point is, however, that Mexico will then want to ratify this solution. Mexico, together with Brazil, is one of Hungary's most important partners on the American continent, and even after the United States, Mexico is our most important trading partner in America. We have a broad contractual relationship. Last year our trade turnover exceeded EUR 1 billion, of which Hungarian exports amounted to EUR 876 million, which clearly shows that bilateral trade is very favourable to us. We also have a strategic partner from Mexico, as the Nemak automotive company has a Mexican ownership background. In Mexico, Hungarian companies also started asking about investment opportunities. To help them, we opened a credit line at Eximbank. And our economic cooperation without problems is a good basis for our cooperation in education. Every year we provide 40 scholarships to Mexican students at universities in Hungary, today 38 of them are being used; 94 were applicants. In addition, attention to Christian communities, their protection, is also an important common point in the foreign policy of the two countries. Mr President, So I ask the Parliament, like the first two additional protocols, to approve the third Additional Protocol, which is necessary for Croatia's accession to the EU, with regard to the agreement on global cooperation between the EU and Mexico. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-22-86	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Here are the keynote speeches. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Sigmond Barna Pál. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-22-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Dear House, Hungary has always been an important endeavour after the change of regime to develop close partnerships and friendly relations with the overseas countries, which are based on mutual respect and understanding. Twenty years ago, in 1997, the then 15 Member States of the European Union and the United Mexican States signed the Economic Partnership, Political Coordination and Cooperation Agreement, which entered into force on 1 October 2000 between the 15 European States and Mexico. Due to the continued expansion, as has been said, it is necessary to update the agreement from time to time. This is the case with Croatia. Allow me to reflect a little on the ongoing development of our relations with the Latin American countries. In today's globalised world, all mutually beneficial, pragmatic and precise legal cooperation is to be welcomed by our country. Speaking of Mexico, it is certainly worth mentioning, for example, as Minister said, the highly successful Stipendium Hungaricum programme, in which dozens of Mexican university students learned about our country's culture. In addition, we have further strong trade, economic and cultural links with the country. Unfortunately, however, the Latin American region is currently facing challenges. Such are demonstrations in the capital of Chile, Santiago, or such a crisis in Venezuela. Each such situation represents a destabilising factor for the whole region and it is therefore particularly important for the European Union and its Member States to be present in the region. We must be present, either in the form of economic partnership cooperation or in the form of other joint projects, so that we can exercise a meaningful influence on the region. We must be present to convey European values. In the event of any current and future challenges, the Union will only be able to provide real assistance once we have established a close cooperation system between the two continents in advance. Dear fellow Members, Building the relationship system with Latin America has always been an important economic and political objective for our country and for the Union's foreign policy. Let us therefore support the work of our Government and the other EU Member States for these mutually beneficial relations and ask for their support for this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-22-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. With all due respect, I would like to ask Mr Attila Mesterházy that, although he would not be next, he should make it possible for me to call you now, in accordance with an opposition speech, which is pro-government. Here you go. Congressman Attila Mesterházy has the floor.
u2019-11-22-89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm just slowing down so the others can get in. Basically, there's a lot I wouldn't have said to the current bill. As we have always supported such proposals, we will, of course, support this. That's what the MSZP faction decided. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-11-22-90	Thank you, and again, I apologize for calling you out of line, but objective obstacles have demanded this from me. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go.
u2019-11-22-91	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Of course, as the others have said, the adoption of the bill is supported by our faction. Mexico is an important partner. We attach great importance to cooperation with the whole of Latin America. The importance of the Latin American region continues to increase as a result of world policy and global economic changes, and Hungary, as an export-oriented economy, has recognised this, which is why it has launched a southern opening strategy. Our goal is to further increase trade flows. Several important Hungarian companies are important players in the Mexican economy, and as we have heard, Mexican companies are already among the government's strategic partners. I would like to draw attention to a specific point in Hungarian-Mexico relations, which I consider important. As a result of the terrible earthquake in 2017, a number of destructions and destructions have occurred in the built heritage in Mexico, and the Hungarian government and Hungary have offered to help two churches, one of which is located in downtown Mexico City, and one country church to be renovated with Hungarian tax-paying money. I think this is a very important gesture. This year's and next year's budgets include the assistance on which the Minister has signed an agreement with the Minister for Culture of Mexico. In this way Hungary expressed solidarity after the terrible earthquake and the importance of Christian roots, Christian culture, in both countries. This is especially true when one of these renovated churches has a colourful stained glass made by Hungarian masters and Hungarian saints appear on this glass. I think this is a good time not only to deepen our relations with Mexico from an economic point of view, but also to work together in a cultural way, through Christian culture, through our shared heritage. I consider this to be a priority. Even if this seems to be a matter of detail within the framework of this great agreement, I thought it important to mention it. Of course, we support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-22-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I would like to ask my fellow Members how someone else would like to speak in this debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I respectfully ask Minister that he wishes to make a closing statement. [[Péter Szijjártó: No, thank you.]] He doesn't want to. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It was also possible to submit amendments by 16:00 yesterday. The general discussion of the bill between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Kingdom of Bahrain on the visa waiver of their nationals with diplomatic, service and special passports until closure. The government referral is T/8002. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I now give the floor to Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Minister.
u2019-11-22-93	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of our agreement with the Kingdom of Bahrain is to ensure visa-free travel and 90 days visa-free stay in Hungary and in the territory of the Kingdom of Bahrain for holders of diplomatic, service and special passports in Bahrain. The visa waiver granted to state leaders, official travelers, diplomats and civil servants can clearly greatly help to strengthen political, economic and cultural relations between the two countries. [[12.30]] It significantly facilitates contacts in all areas of cooperation. The visa waiver agreement avoids the loss of time and the administrative burden associated with prior visa management. The two countries, of course, agree with the signature that the holders of these passports respect all the laws and regulations in force in the territory of that country. The agreement was signed at the UN General Assembly on 27 September this year with my colleague in Bahrain, so it can be seen here that the ministerial order to speed up ratification processes has been respected. The partial visa waiver agreement shall consist of Article 11. Members of diplomatic or consular missions and of international agencies and family members living with them in the same household shall, of course, continue to be required to obtain a visa prior to their entry and thereafter a residence permit from the host State. The Convention provides for personal, territorial and temporal scope, rules on the validity of visa-free passports, provision for the possibility of refusal of entry, the possibility of suspending the Agreement and the means of resolving disputes that may arise during the application. I would like to inform you that the signature was in Hungarian, Arabic and English, but here in the legislation I ask you for the approval of the Hungarian and English texts. The Hungarian, I think it is obvious why, and the English because it is stipulated in the contract that in the event of disputes the governing copy is the English-language contract, so if there are any disputes, it is right to know that this text is also ratified. With all due respect, I would ask the Parliament to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-22-94	Thank you very much, Minister. The main speaker of the Fidesz Group, Mr Sigmond Barna Pál, will be the lead speaker. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-11-22-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, Dear Minister, Hungarian-Bahrein diplomatic relations have a history of nearly three decades. We can talk about a balanced bilateral relationship between the two countries without major political conflicts. This is indicated, among other things, by the visit of the King of Bahrain to Budapest on 22 April 2019, during which he also met with President of the Republic. After regaining independence from the British in 1971, the country was primarily placed on the international political map by its oil stocks. Since then, fortunately, he has successfully diversified his economy, saving himself from the trap of oil dependence. Bahrain has now become one of the most important financial and tourist centres in the region. Our bilateral economic relations are developing well, but the balance of relations can be achieved not only in terms of trade indicators, but also in terms of a series of concrete agreements, economic cooperation and treaties showing how important the smoothness of diplomatic relations is. In 2011, our countries signed the bilateral political consultation agreement. This was followed in 2014 by the Memorandum of Understanding on Economic and Technical Cooperation, which came into force two years later. A bilateral aviation agreement was also reached in 2016. This line is now followed by an agreement on visa waiver for citizens with diplomatic, service and special passports. Dear fellow Members, The Fidesz fraction supports the publication of the agreement, Bahrain is an economically and politically important and emerging player in international politics. I think we can only win by helping to make diplomacy between the two countries more efficient and simpler. Thank you for your attention and your word. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-22-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Attila Mesterházy. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-11-22-97	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The MSZP faction supports the submission. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-22-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I am asking my fellow Members, who would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I'll ask Mr. Secretary if he'd like to make a closing statement. [[On the sign of Péter Szijjártó:]] He doesn't want to. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The amendments, as in the previous cases, were possible until 16:00 yesterday. The general discussion of the bill between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on the publication of an agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on the settlement of questions concerning the needs of the diplomatic representation of the Republic of Bulgaria in Budapest until the closure. Government referral T/8012. can be recognized on the House's network for all of us. I now give the floor to Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2019-11-22-99	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary and Bulgaria both signed agreements in 1980 and 1981, namely the housing of Bulgarian diplomats accredited in Hungary, who worked partly in the Embassy and partly in the commercial representation. Under these agreements, the Government of the People's Republic of Bulgaria acquired a permanent right of use over several sites in Buda owned by the Hungarian State. Then housing houses were built at their own expense, which are owned by the Bulgarians under the agreements. Subsequently, in the case of certain plots affected by the agreements, in the Real Estate Register, the Directorate of the former Ministry of Foreign Affairs which provides for the Diplomatic Board refers to the succession of the real estate distributor and service provider CD Hungary. It was registered as owner, and at the same time the ownership of the land by the Hungarian State and the permanent right of use of the land of the Government of the People's Republic of Bulgaria and the ownership of the superstructures were deleted. Obviously, this situation had to be corrected. Not only because of that, but also because this was usually the only open question in the otherwise excellent bilateral relationship. Both the Bulgarians and we wanted to put this to rest as soon as possible, all the more so that Bulgaria and I are close partners and allies in political and economic matters, and indeed, Bulgaria is a country like us that has not joined the global migration compact of the United Nations. The point is, therefore, that we wanted to settle this open question as soon as possible, and we managed to conclude an agreement replacing the abovementioned 1980 and 1981 agreements. The agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on the settlement of questions concerning the real estate needs of the diplomatic representations of the Republic of Bulgaria was finally signed with the foreign minister in Washington in April this year. According to the agreement, the Bulgarian party shall obtain the ownership of the land indicated in Article 1 of the agreement which you are also aware of and shall pay compensation to the Bulgarians for the rights in respect of the properties indicated in Article 2 of the agreement you know. This agreement, which can be seen from the fact of the signature, therefore settles the issue of the management of diplomatic property in a satisfactory manner for both parties, and I therefore respectfully ask the Parliament to support this proposal as well. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-22-100	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Sigmond Barna Pál. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-11-22-101	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, Dear House, Hungarian-Bulgarian diplomatic relations have a long history. This is not surprising, since there are very many parallels in the development of the two countries. Today, there is a complex multi-faceted relationship between the two countries: we are connected by EU membership on the one hand, and both countries are members of NATO, so the relationship between the two countries has very serious defence and security policy implications. Nearly 40 years ago, both countries were part of the Soviet Eastern bloc. In these circumstances, representatives of the Hungarian People's Republic and the Bulgarian People's Republic sat down with each other on 6 December 1980 in order to give the land transferred to the Bulgarian Embassy staff a permanent use and to settle the conditions for construction. [[12.40]] However, the agreement signed here, as we know, left unsolved matters to be settled. The details have been presented by Minister. The Fidesz faction supports the agreement to resolve these issues as soon as possible, thus increasing the quality of Hungarian-Bulgarian friendly relations. Any convention of this nature may also be regarded as an investment. Bulgaria is expected to remain an important ally on the European political stage in the future. After all, they are also affected by steps taken by each Western Member State, such as preventing enlargement in the Balkans, unconditional support for immigration and the reduction of cohesion funding. In these cases, the two countries are fighting together against the unjust east-west faultline, for real European unity. We need to show the world that Central and Eastern Europe is not second-rate in the EU. It is therefore in our primary interest to join forces, maintain and maintain close diplomatic relations. Therefore, the Fidesz faction welcomes and supports this convention, which contributes to the smooth functioning of Hungarian-Bulgarian diplomatic relations. Thank you for your attention and your word.
u2019-11-22-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr János Bencsik. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-22-103	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, With great satisfaction, we are monitoring the thriving Bulgarian-Hungarian relations that have continued to grow in recent years. We are pleased that economic, commercial and cultural relations between the two countries are developing, which proves that in recent years the Bulgarian school and the church in Hungary celebrated its 100th anniversary. As vice-president of the Hungarian-Bulgarian Group of the Interparlamentary Union, I am particularly proud that Hungary is considered as the second country of our fellow Bulgarians of six thousand origins, with Hungarian citizenship, and the kind of nationality policy and ethnic institution that Hungary gives them is usually a positive example and a reference when it comes to the native and cultural possibilities of Bulgarians living in the world. This positive relationship is strengthened by the fact that the Hungarian state supports Bulgarian students studying in Hungary with a special scholarship system, as well as the day of Hungarian-Bulgarian friendship in 2016, which will be celebrated on 19 October. Moreover, the two countries are linked not only by a common history of more than a thousand years, but also by common energy interests, as was said here in the morning by Minister Péter Szijjártó. We expect Bulgaria to be a key player in this region in the next period as a result of the construction of gas supplies from the south. Finally, some economic data have to be verified: since 2008 the Hungarian-Bulgarian Economic Chamber has been operating, which was founded with the support of the Bulgarian embassy and is intended to support the development of Hungarian-Bulgarian relations. In 2018, the Hungarian-Bulgarian trade relationship exceeded EUR 1.5 billion. In Bulgaria, Hungarian companies are the eighth most important economic group in the country, and perhaps it fits into this trend or line that since 2016 there has been a direct flight between Sofia and Budapest. Finally, I would like to say that Jobbik will, of course, support this proposal. A few minutes ago, I received news that in the 2020 European Championship, Hungary received Bulgaria, which means that in Sofia we will have to beat the Bulgarian national team to welcome home the winner of the Iceland-Romania match. I very much hope that whatever the outcome of this match will not burden Bulgarian-Hungarian relations. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-22-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. I think we can all trust that. Trust is the last thing that dies. [[Defiance.]] I give the floor from the MSZP Group to Mr Attila Mesterházy, who is the lead speaker of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2019-11-22-105	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Indeed, the importance of the relationship could be talked about for a long time, but this is what my better fellow Member has done, so I would not comment on this, but I would just like to point out for the record that we, of course, support this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-22-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I am asking my fellow Members, who would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I'll ask Minister if you'd like to make a closing statement. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. Thank you very much. I would like to inform my fellow Members that it was possible to present the amendments by 4 p.m. yesterday. Dear House, There will be a general debate on the bill amending the laws implementing certain tax measures of the Competitive Hungary programme until closure. Government referral T/8015. can be recognized by all of us on the House's IT network. First, I would like to give the floor to Secretary Norbert Izer, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-11-22-107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, On 12 November, the government submitted to the Parliament the bill before us, which serves to implement certain tax measures of the programme for Hungary, which is more competitive. The draft is an integral part of the government's tax policy, focusing on tax reductions and tax simplifications. In addition, the proposal enhances the competitiveness of the business sector, contributing to Hungarian economic growth exceeding the EU average by at least 2 percentage points in the future. Dear Parliament, Next year, companies will still be able to count on the EU's lowest 9 percent corporate tax and the government will leave HUF 380 billion to parents who have children who are legally working. This is the highest amount to date, of which 25 billion HUF is due to mothers with four or more children. This proposal for tax exemptions for mothers with at least four children was adopted by the Parliament already in spring, as well as a proposal to reduce the VAT on accommodation services. Therefore, tax reductions will continue in 2020. Many of us, especially our older compatriots, can be affected by the new rule that is now proposed, which would extend the possibility of granting tax-free benefits in the form of electricity, forestry and mining subsidies, firewood and carbon benefits for individuals who are working or retired from the electricity sector, forestry and mining. It is important to note that at present only those who acquired the right until 31 December 2009 can benefit from such a benefit, after that date there was no possibility to acquire new rights and to grant those benefits exempt from tax. The change in the legislative environment, without the measure proposed, would have resulted in the future tax liability of those concerned due to the benefit. This is addressed in the proposal before us. In addition to increasingly lower taxes, competitiveness can be effectively supported by a stable and predictable tax system. In the spirit of stability and predictability, the corporate tax system has a significant role to play in Hungary's involvement in the ten best investment countries this year as well. The amendments contained in the draft serve to fulfil the EU's obligation to harmonise legislation and to ensure its internal coherence. The personal income tax system in the EU is also stable and predictable with exemplary family support benefits, low and easy to apply at a single-key rate, so the current draft contains only legislative harmonisation changes, and no substantive changes are made in the context of it. Honourable Members, Tax simplification measures will continue to encourage the economy. It may not be exaggeration to say that there are age-related changes in the bill we are discussing. The bill also contains three amendments which significantly relieve businesses of burden in addition to the whitening of the economy. For three years, the IRS has been working instead of private individuals, and all citizens have been exempted from the most complicated tax administration obligation, the sjaja confession. The bill we are discussing now creates the conditions for the tax office to draw up a draft VAT return for businesses from the spring of 2021. The bill increases the obligation to provide online data on invoices at two paces. From 1 July 2020, the reporting obligation would apply to any account issued to a domestic taxable person on a domestic transaction and, from 1 January 2021, to accounts issued to non-taxable persons. In line with this, the deadline for issuing invoices would be reduced from 15 days to 8 days from 1 July 2020. According to the bill, certain VAT-free transactions, which have so far only been accompanied by an accounting certificate, will now be subject to the VAT bill and invoice. This includes, for example, non-service-service human health care, dental care, adult education and further training. [[12.50]] In addition to releasing entrepreneurs from one of the most serious administrative burdens, measures are also an age shift in the fight against the black economy. This minimises the possibility of tax avoidance for all transactions, which, in addition to the protection of fair businesses, can bring serious revenues to the budget. According to professional estimates, online billing has added 200-250 billion HUF to the budget in one year. According to the Ministry of Finance's calculations, the expansion of the system can produce tens of billions of measurable results. One of the features of the bill we are discussing here is that each economic whitening measure serves at least three objectives: increasing budget revenues, protecting decent businesses and the ability of the tax office to prepare VAT returns. The proposal that the tax authority should be able to inform employees if it establishes tax avoidance in relation to their employment at the employer is both a tool to combat black employment and to protect the interests of the worker concerned. In many cases, the worker does not have any information that his employer has not reported him or her working time or, where appropriate, with a lower wage than he actually agreed with the employee. The amendment removes, among other things, this lack of information. Dear House, Returning to the numerous simplification proposals of the bill to reduce the bureaucratic burden on businesses, manufacturers and distributors of alcoholic food supplements can expect significant administrative reductions, as next year these products will be produced and marketed without excise duty. With tax simplifications, group corporate tax entities will also benefit better next year. By facilitating easier application of the law, the amendment allows the taxpayer starting its activity during the year to join a group corporate tax entity at the same time as logging in. In compliance with Hungary's EU obligation, it has enabled the VAT on irrecoverable claims to be enforced in a controlled manner. The proposal will simplify the surveying interface and make it easier for taxpayers to identify and categorize their large claims. This bill also helps to implement the crucial point of the economic protection action plan that ensures tax simplification. The number of taxes will continue to decrease next year; while the four individual contributions will be merged into one contribution, the social security contribution, the simplified business tax, also known as the Eva, will be abolished. The proposal therefore provides for VAT-related declarations to be made to the tax authority by the deadline of 15 January 2020 for VAT-related persons for the purpose of repealing the Eva Act. For example, the taxable persons concerned may opt for VAT exemptions. Dear House, In order to ensure the uniform tax treatment of higher education institutions of public interest, the group of taxable persons not subject to local taxes is added to the higher education institution, which is a public benefit organisation, which is maintained by a State-based trust fund. In addition, the tax law is added to the tax rules relating to the management of the assets of the trust. Since the Trust Foundation is very similar in structure and function to trust management, it will therefore have the same tax treatment as these two legal institutions. With regard to the National Tax and Customs Office Act, the amendments aim at the next stage of full introduction of electronic administration. In addition, the amendment removes the current disproportionateness in management and administration salaries in territorial bodies. The amendment to the Accounting Act is primarily justified by the rules on company law, company law and tax law adopted during the spring session. As of 1 October 2019, the Law on the transformation, merger and division of individual legal entities was amended, according to which draft asset balance sheets should only be audited by an auditor if the evolving legal entity is also required to audit its annual accounts. Further accounting-related amendments to the Transformation Act are the requirements for the date of the transformation. Under the Transformation Act, the effect of the deletion of the legal predecessor and the registration of the legal successor cannot fall on the same day. Accordingly, the date of the transformation will be the day of the cancellation of the predecessor, and the successor will be the day following the date of the cancellation of the predecessor. The proposed amendments to the Accounting Act translate these changes into the Accounting Act. The law on company disclosure, court proceedings and winding-up has also been amended. According to the amendment, the company can determine the date of the change in the company's data except for the reduction of the subscribed capital in the request for a change. This change also needs to be passed through the related provisions of the Accounting Act, which is proposed by the bill. It is also in the context of company law rules that makes it possible to account for a replacement payment no longer required to compensate for losses in favour of a direct income reserve if the owner renounces its repayment. In line with the competitiveness objectives, the proposal to increase the threshold for the depreciation of small assets according to a plan from HUF 100 thousand to HUF 200,000 results in a reduction of the administrative burden. The current threshold has remained unchanged for almost 15 years, so the increase is justified by the necessary valorisation. The audit proposals serve to comply with EU obligations. The bill extends the scope of sanctions for quality control in line with the EU audit directive. On the basis of the new sanction, the Hungarian Chamber of Auditors can publish the name of the person responsible in connection with the quality control procedure, as well as the fact of the infringement, its content, severity and duration on its website and on the single government portal. The proposal also states that the duration of this disclosure obligation is five years. In addition, the bill contains additional provisions on the data management and registration rules applicable to official procedures conducted by the public oversight authority. The bill makes electronic administration mandatory for the future in the official procedures conducted by the public oversight authority, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on General Rules of Electronic Administration and Trust Services. Honourable Members, The bill before you will help to preserve the progress achieved in recent years in line with the objective of the Government's adopted action plan on family protection and economic protection, and will ensure further economic growth beyond the EU average, and will also be in line with the government's tax reduction and tax simplification policy, so please support and accept it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-22-108	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Péter Ovádi. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-22-109	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Many of you may remember the time when any tax measure immediately caused fear and anxiety to people, which usually brought increased burdens and unnecessary administration into our lives. During the socialist period, if there was a tax reduction, there was not much to thank for, since the famous VAT reduction lasted only until the elections, and then it was lifted back nicely. Fortunately, thanks to the good performance of the economy, we are no longer discussing, in relation to tax laws, who and how much their payments are increasing, but who and how much they are decreasing. Now the government has presented a proposal that is essentially intended to improve competitiveness. The government's clear objective is to create an internationally competitive tax environment that attracts capital and facilitates the reinvestment of businesses already present here. The other aim of the Hungarian economic policy is to ensure that the rate of withdrawal is such that it is not an incentive to trick, but to pay the tax. The efficiency of tax collection should be maximised in order to improve the whitening of the black and grey economy. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The package of proposals that we have just tabled contains a lot of minor amendments, which I would not mention to all of them, but I would just like to highlight the most important ones of them and say a few words about them. The first is: according to an earlier decision of the Government, the Eva will cease to exist and the following changes are justified in this respect. Evading entities will be subject to general sales tax from next year, so taxable persons will have to declare their VAT status by 15 January 2020 at the latest. For example, they have the option to choose subject tax exemptions or payment accounts. In the absence of a declaration, taxable persons must act in accordance with the general rules of the VAT Act. The rules giving rise to the choice of an application for correction are added to the possibility of correcting the choice of an exiting evading base. From 2020 the deadline for issuing invoices will be reduced from 15 days to 8 days. Changes in the rules on online reporting: From 1 July 2020, the reporting obligation shall apply to all accounts issued from domestic transactions where the customer is a domestic taxable person. [[13.00]] For example, taxable persons opting for tax exemptions should also provide information on the invoices they issue. In the case of accepted accounts, data shall be provided at no threshold per account on the domestic invoices containing the tax charged under which the buyer exercises the right to deduct. The draft law contains transitional provisions for the new rules. As from 2021, invoices issued to non-taxable persons and the supply of goods exempt from tax within the Community shall also be subject to online reporting by the issuer of the account. In line with the extension of the online reporting obligation, the mandatory tax elements of the account will also change. This would be introduced in two steps. The first eight digits of the customer's tax number or, in the case of group taxable persons, the group identification number of the customer will be required to appear on the invoice as from 1 July 2020, provided that the invoice issuer is required to provide information online from the invoice issued. In the second stage, as from 1 January 2021, the submitted proposal extends the reporting obligation to all accounts issued for a local transaction with domestic performance, the issue and issue of which shall be subject to the provisions of the VAT Act. This means that, as from that date, the reporting obligation also covers invoices issued to non-taxable persons, such as individuals, as well as invoices issued to the taxable person from the supply of goods exempt from tax within the Community. I think it is important to point out that the legislator, by introducing it in two stages, provides economic operators with sufficient time to prepare for the new changes. From 2020, the obligation to issue invoices will also cover certain tax-free activities. Currently, tax-free suppliers and service providers have been exempted from the obligation to issue invoices, provided that an accounting document is issued instead of an invoice. As a result of this change, for example, from next year, they will be obliged to issue invoices to those who carry out material-free educational activities and to those who sell built-in and unbuilt real estate exempt from tax. The reduction of the administrative burden results in the increase of the lump sum depreciation threshold for small assets, intellectual property and tangible assets from HUF 100 000 to HUF 200 000. Dear House, I believe that the bill before us contains a number of tax measures that reduce the administration of businesses, which will actually increase Hungary's competitiveness. That is why I ask my fellow Members to support this motion. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-22-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[Bence of Tordai is replaced by Dr. László György Lukács in the notary seat.]]
u2019-11-22-111	Mr President, Dear House, I will begin this debate a little more calmly than the amendment of the parliamentary law extending to the next day and a day or two ago, where a dictatorial package clearly came in. I now feel that in this debate we may even agree on certain fundamental aspects of economic matters. Let us try to do this, but do not take offense to the system criticism that I make up in all such cases, and I am not dissuaded by it, even if I see good intentions on certain economic issues on the part of the authors, and I pay tribute to this good intentions. I would like to say that I am not going to argue with a reduction in the rate of small company tax, because obviously, not only did I, but Jobbik's faction support it every single time, we even supported where we had something to do, let us mention this: a dramatic reduction in the corporate tax rate, which benefited multi-companies, and in Hungarian micro-, small- and medium-sized enterprises about 1 percent reduction, was indeed an unfair step, and to date, the hundreds of billions of people from the revenue side of the budget should pay in the form of corporate tax. I have to say that perhaps Mr Secretary of State can also adjust us on this matter, that the government's position on the public burden of multi-enterprises has changed. Secretary of State, we have examined these companies several times, the same top 12 multi-company companies that typically operate in the countries of the region, with a similar profile and a similar range of activities. An international research institute also found that in the Czech Republic, these top multi-companies account for approximately 18,5 percent of public space. In Hungary, the same ratio is by far below 1 percent. Once again, we're talking about companies with similar profiles in similar areas. I understand that there are regional differences, and I understand that Hungary's current government is trying to compete for the investment, capital, and recently for the Ukrainian and Eastern workforce this has become a kind of local competition with the Poles right now, but this 18,5 percent versus 1 percent public burden shows a roaring difference that highlights systemic problems. So I have a specific question: are you planning to move this system towards public burdens? I am not encouraging you to raise taxes, but at least how to think about how these multi-companies can benefit from more than tax incentives. As I said, I do not dispute at all the reduction of the key to small business tax, I support it. We also see that this can amount to approximately HUF 5 billion according to market estimates, so Hungarian businesses will not be capitalised from this, nor will they conquer the world market or even the region's markets, but we also see that this package of proposals has many very far-reaching proposals. The fact that pension contributions, health insurance contributions and labour market contributions merge into a burden is, in itself, most unfortunate, because earlier, while the pension contribution was called pension contributions, and we took it about trivial that the majority voting for the current budget, for which it was originally intended, perhaps the assurance of this care system, rested on a slightly stronger basis than it is now. We also see, Mr Secretary, that the pension system has a year or two to the point where the budget is directly or indirectly involved. For demographic reasons and inevitable reasons, we will soon get to the point that this pension system needs to be replaced by hundreds or thousands of billions, even if it further increases the retirement age or even touches on the calculation methodology for the salaries of fresh pensioners, according to the government's intention. In Poland, in other places, they are trying not to cut previous pension amounts, but to substantially reduce the contributions, benefits of those now retiring by changing the calculation methodology for new retirees, and the age-grabbing can also be done. Here, the government must therefore respond to the medium to long-term prospects for the sustainability of the pension system. I am not afraid of the immediate collapse of the pension system under any circumstances, but we can only get to the point that pensions will be so low or the age limit is so high that for a typical Hungarian male in a living situation there will no longer be a perspective at the end of his life to plan for, or count on, peaceful retirement years, because according to statistics, only 4-5 years can be expected that he spends in relative health as a pensioner, the rest of the years are either about the disease, or it is no longer about this life on earth, unfortunately. That would be worth a separate debate, I might add. At the same time, we also see that this proposal seeks to make an important change in terms of working pensioners. With regard to the tax exemption for all employees of pensioners, we also see a correction planned for approximately HUF 20 billion, and we also see that the government often refers to the fact that it does serve demographic goals, and I see that neither this package nor the other elements of that package show how the government would achieve all of this, and we see that overall, which they talk about, family support, economic interventions for a more competitive Hungary, family tax benefits, these references, which I now quote, have not been able to achieve the desired goal. I appeal to my fellow Members: yes, I will not only talk about this proposal, because I am trying to put in place the system criticism that I believe the government is indebted to. Most importantly, these demographic targets should appear at least at a minimum level in indicators. Now we're talking about all the relevant demographic indicators falling, falling, falling, and I'm not going to count the number of living births on you, it would be unfair and it would not be professional, but let's just say I'm counting again the decline in fertility rates. This clearly shows that the support system based only on forints, which typically acts up from the upper middle class, was unable to fulfill its purpose, did not bring the result that was expected. [[13.10]] Then let's talk about the system that you're about to get into, as I said, with a correction of about $5 billion on one side, and I would like to say on the other side, by eliminating and removing the Eva, you're bringing a certain uncertainty into this system. After all, we know that Kata will still change in the near future, it cannot be considered final at the moment, and that more than 16,000 eatings, who will have to decide on the form of taxation on 31 December, will not necessarily be able to make this decision without knowing the final conditions of the Kata. The numbers that are in front of me show just this, as in September this year, 17.5 thousand people were under the eva, and now we find 16 600 oeuvres. This means that in two months 900 companies were able to decide by scale which form to proceed, and there are 16 600 others, while December 31 is rapidly approaching, and we see that because of the unclear nature of the conditionality, they may not be able to decide which way to proceed. This proposal could also help if it were either to state that the condition of the cata remains the same as it is or to bring in the changes that it would like to finalise. We also need to see that what this proposal and the government's economic policy do not change the most is the level of taxes and contributions on domestic payments, which are still at the forefront of the world. His one-digit sajja might be able to help with this statistical shift in terms of what economic policy changes would cause, another issue, but Minister Mihály Varga clearly declared that no one-digit sja will be planned by 2021. As I said, the other question is the nature of the corporate tax key, to be more precise, the whole treatment of multi-company companies. I would also be pleased if this unjustified discount mass, which the Government of Hungary and the former governments have invented for these companies, could at least be considered. After all, anyone who knows at a minimum the decisions and investment logic of these multinational companies knows very well that the Orbán model simply does not work for them. So going out to Saudi Arabia is the prime minister of a country and saying that wages are sufficiently low here, and that he believes that the labour code is sufficiently flexible, these are two factors that are interested in multi-company companies, but whether a production line comes here or not, is not primarily based on them. It would be much more important to create a predictable legal environment and background that these companies would be genuinely interested in, and if they could get and obtain a decent climate in a 5-10-year perspective, then believe that the fourth and fifth factor would be that Hungarian wages should be low, because this is the government's intention and that the labour code should not be flexible. Once again, in the case of these multinational companies, sacrificing the health of Hungarian people or keeping the wage level low is, in my view, a historical sin for the sake of fourth and fifth decision factors. Let's not start arguing about emigration statistics here, because the government has its own statistics. In this, he visualizes that the migration balance has already been reversed, and more people are coming home to Canaan than there are forced departures. I could argue with this on a statistical basis, because there are very few Hungarian citizens who travel abroad by going into the office, telling them that I have my Taj card here, that I will terminate my insurance status, I will cut my address, I will cut all my family ties, I will emigrate, here I am in the statistics. There are relatively few of them compared to those who plan to leave for a few years, or they may try to repay their previous foreign exchange loan from the higher wage there, which may have become a HUF loan, but the debt remains, but they do not appear in the statistics of the HCSO in this direction. That is why I say that the whole economic and tax policy should be considered in my view. I can support and support such cosmetic and improvement proposals, even if I feel some uncertainty about the Eva and the cata, but I must say that the system criticism is not only going to get away with by this government, you must listen to it until you dare to touch these delicate issues, and the key area for me is the treatment of multi-companies. They need their activities on the Hungarian market, but all such activities are needed in a manner appropriate to public burdens. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-11-22-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mr Csárdi Antal. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-22-113	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, It is difficult to understand the purpose of the draft law on improving competitiveness before us, in the end, in addition to following the government's fever dreams. True, in the past nine years, we have been accustomed to the fact that what they do under the heading of economic policy is the complete inability of the Hungarian poor and the middle class, the filling of the rich with the free money that they finance from the extra money they receive from the European Union, which you have spewed a lot. However, they no longer speak of the fact that this economic growth is in the least because of you. What you are doing is an unrealistic effort to push even more growth out of the machinery, and that is why you are not afraid of the adoption of the slave law, which is why you are ignoring the environmental aspects, and that is why you are bringing us this package of measures called "competitive improvement," which is outrageous and failed. The Prime Minister's fever must be enforced under all circumstances. This is nothing more than the economic performance of Hungary far beyond the growth of the European Union. But the Prime Minister's announcement of how much economic growth will be, and then, that will be enough, it has not worked for 30 years, my fellow Members. You beat your breasts because our economic growth is extremely high and real wages are rising. But they don't talk about how your performance has nothing to do with it, because we don't owe these results to you. Our economy would grow nicely even if it weren't for you in the velvet chairs, so let's take a look at the regional data. But for you, great growth is not enough, they want even more, so they overwhelm the economy, eviscerate Hungarian workers and deliver them to foreign corporations. They don't care about sustainability issues in society. You can see well when we look at Hungarian economic policy and social policy in parallel, that these two areas are virtually opposite each other, they are fighting virtually a fight and competition that, as it stands, under your government, will bring the result that social policy will be the losing party in this. What do we have to thank you for? I don't want to deny it. The ever-increasing increase in prices, which is unprecedented in Europe; the slave law; the overtime; the wasted health and education, which, in case you may not be able to improve our competitiveness; and the never-seen decline in Hungarian currency. It's all thanks to you. The 74-year-old Hungarian forint was struck home in a way that the Hungarian economic history had never seen before. These are all thanks to you, and I have not yet talked about Paks II, which we would build on Russian credit, with extremely poor conditions, and I have not yet talked about noticing the ever cheaper production of renewable energy from day to day, and to sum up, I have not yet told you that you are reviving our future because of education, health and the release of sustainable resources. You assume that nothing else legitimizes your governance but increasing wages. For the time being, it does not bother the voters that their increasing salaries are virtually taken away by the increase in prices, and that the exchange rate of the extremely weak Hungarian forints is taking them away. I think that once we run out of momentum and pay rise is stopped, and unemployment is rising again, your governance will end very quickly, and you know that, and you cannot afford that, because then we will come and we will have you accounted for. [[Towards the benches of Fidesz:]] Yes, my dear fellow Member. They practically destroyed education, destroyed health care, which, by the way, comes back from productivity indicators, which are, how should I put it? They're under the frog's butt. [[13.20]] I think they can do statistics excellently, in this world-class thing you do, but we know exactly what we do here in this House, that you can't believe your statistics. Mihály Varga claims that the economic slowdown can also ring in Hungary, which also coincides with the analytical consensus; GDP growth may slow down from around 5 per cent this year to around 3 per cent. The President of the Central Bank, on the other hand, claims that Mihály Varga speaks into the air when he is slowing down, because according to the President of the Hungarian National Bank, Hungarian economic growth is so embedded that the international slowdown will have no impact on it, and Hungary is an island in slowing Europe. This is an interesting contrast, I think, and it is worth giving a guide, an explanation for a package that seeks to improve such competitiveness, who is right now, Mihály Varga or György Matolcsy, because the two cannot achieve it at the same time, so let us face it. Viktor Orbán, in any case, seems to believe Mihály Varga more, as he lets us avoid this draft law to compensate for the slowdown, but I must say that we should be glad that, in the midst of their own fever dreams and the inflated artificial growth, at least the government has noticed that the rate of Hungarian growth will not be decided at Felcsút and the Castle, if the President of the Central Bank cannot see this. You practically admitted that our economy was as exposed as it was in 2010, when you took over the steering column. In nine years, you have been able to do nothing to change this, and it is still dependent on the will of the capitalist multinationals to see how salaries, jobs and about all economic indicators are going to work in Hungary. However, the current incompetence law in this form is completely unjustified, in some respects late, in other respects too early. There are positive elements, and I do not want to hide it, such as tax administration facilitations, although here I would add that the level of bureaucracy in our country is still scandalously high, and the elements of the bill provide only negligible help. We consider the section on workers' hostels to be a good measure, although we know exactly what the exit will be, it will be decided only by the future. We know very well that we are faced with the risks of this element that we cannot see today. Development tax relief is also a positive thing, although I think that if not only the development of companies that are fattened up by public money with new state billions, this will be a truly successful story. We hope that real value-making, market-based Hungarian companies will also benefit from it, and not only the already well-built buddies. It is a good way to raise the amount of money that can be spent on research and development, but I think that by just 32 billion, that means, in particular, that kissing is dead; it is extremely small. VAT reimbursement in small settlements is also a good idea, the problem is that young, talented Hungarians are pouring into cities, where because of your excessive economic policy the housing of these young people has become a nightmare at the same time, and we see that you do not support these people in any way in obtaining housing, because the CSOK does not answer that. You do not know so much about Hungarian reality! The tax rate on the turnover of accommodation is reduced to 5 per cent. In any case, I think it is worth talking about your social policy, because your social policy can be described in an extended sentence as if you went to a restaurant for dinner or went on vacation in a hotel, these two activities were subject to a 5% tax burden. In case you go to the market on Friday afternoon and buy 3 kilos of potatoes, 2 kilos of carrots, buy 1 kilo of beans, you can do that with a 27 percent tax burden, if you go out and buy bread, it's still 18 percent. So you're going to have to face a three-fold burden at a restaurant meal, which is nothing more than that you're still obscenely representing the interests of the upper middle class and the upper ten thousand, and the biggest problem is that this is all against those with lower incomes. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: This is neoliberalism!]] Yeah, it's called pure neoliberalism. Ladies and gentlemen, At the same time, I think that we understand this direction, because it serves their social policy perfectly, and we also know that Lőrinc Mészáros has interests that gain much. Think of the Lake Balaton. [[Lajos Korózs intervenes.]] That's right! Think of the Balaton, try to stay in a hotel that is not an interest of entrepreneurs very close to the government. You're not gonna make it, my dear fellow Member. It is worth looking at the farming of European countries. Responsible governments are able to present a zero - even positive - budget in years of economic growth. The Hungarian government also talked about a budget of zero, but we were nowhere near that. What do we see instead? Instead, we see visual investments, stadiums built from 190 billion forints, and we see that, in accordance with historical examples, the Hungarian authoritarian leadership sees it embody in visual investment and justify its economic performance. I think we've all learned history, not just XX. It is worth examining centuries of history on this issue. And why I said that this amendment would be at the expense of people is the best example of reducing socho. From this, Hungarian workers will not feel anything in the short term, and in the long term they may feel that health care is going down even more than at the current level, if at all possible, and the pension system will be irreparably on the verge of collapse. Can't you see that? Do you really expect the reduction of the socho here to create new jobs? ! The labour market is tight, ladies and gentlemen. The reduction of the socho will have two consequences: the employer will laugh at the additional profit generated and the amount of social benefits will be further reduced. Once again, I can say that this is not a new element in your economic policy, my fellow Members. I think I'm gonna run out of time, so allow me to close my lead speaker duties with a sentence or an extended sentence. You want to increase competitiveness, while forgetting that nothing will help the competitiveness of an economy more than four factors: quality education, social security, an effective, non-corruption administration and foreign policy, diplomatic stability. You have virtually nothing of these four items. The opinion of the Hungarian government on the international stage is terrible, and I will not go any further into the details. If I say that it is a non-corruption, efficient administration, then any voter out at the bus stop will have a laughing fit, and we all see that the complete destruction of education is unfortunately beyond the zenith, so it can be said that the greatest damage has already been achieved, and unfortunately social security cannot be spoken as a joke during your administration. So I think that these four elements should be strengthened in order to enable Hungary and Hungary's economy to be competitive, and in this case we would be very happy and happy to support the coming, building or assisting legislative proposals, but until this happens, unfortunately we cannot provide our support. Thank you very much for the floor. [[13.30]]
u2019-11-22-114	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Attila Mesterházy. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-22-115	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the MSZP faction will not support this package of proposals, which we will not support because what is in the name of the law does not serve the purpose. Indeed, there are a number of positive steps in this proposal, with which such a salad law was actually like the present proposal, so its smoke has become a little bigger than its flame, as today it is entitled. The amendment of the laws implementing certain tax measures of the Programme for Competitive Hungary. I just want to give you an example, which is how do I put it? in terms of competitiveness, it is certainly a cardinal amendment to the 2010 National Tax and Customs Authority Act, which basically contains so much as to introduce a uniform procedure for government officials and finance officers and to change the salary table. In fact, it is so difficult to see that this would be a huge step towards the development of Hungary's competitiveness. We see that the government talks a lot about improving competitiveness, and as one of the previous speakers here may have referred to it, perhaps my fellow Member Csárdi, there is a serious debate between the President of the Hungarian National Bank and Minister for Finance Mihály Varga. You have heard before that there is a serious conflict between the two Fidesz economic policies, but they have now given a very public signal in the last few weeks and months, as they have sent each other a message on the columns of various newspapers or at conferences about what people think about the saving future directions of Hungarian economic policy, and these were indeed 180 degrees opposite directions. Let me just offer you this last one: this is the opinion on the euro: Mr Matolcsy would like to introduce some kind of foreign currency, whereas Mihály Varga might adopt a more rational approach when he talks about the euro and puts forward his position on this. A few months ago, the National Bank of Hungary formulated such a package of competitiveness programmes, if I remember correctly, it had some 330 points. To be self-critical enough: we, too, had a lot of such points during our government, we had 45, 56 points, many things; otherwise, we could learn so much that it was completely unnecessary to measure the steps in such a number, it is much better to move in this direction even with small steps, but specifically. I ask the Minister of Finance several times, because I am also a member of the Committee on Budgets about what he thinks about Hungary's competitiveness. I must admit, as time progressed, the Minister of Finance's position on this matter became increasingly unrealistic, since at his hearing a year ago, he himself acknowledged that there were serious problems with the competitiveness of the Hungarian corporate sphere, and then, in the next period, probably, the political instruction came to him, saying that there was no problem with the economic competitiveness and performance of Hungarian companies. This means either that it has been resolved in a year or that it has been told not to speak any more, which is realistic, but may not be in line with political communication needs. What I see is that there is a serious problem with this competitiveness in Hungary, talking to business managers, small and bigger entrepreneurs, and I am sure Professor Mellar will talk about this in more detail. Let me draw your attention to one aspect. Many times we have the right to save European Union funds, but, as we see, the EU's support methodology in Hungary is making Hungarian companies more lazy or less proactive, as it is much easier to get an EU grant and start a project from it than to think about how to obtain funds within the framework of free market competition and how to move forward. So there is also a negative impact of these European Union funds, in addition to their many beneficial aspects, that Hungarian companies are getting a little more comfortable and are so that it is much easier to push on EU funds, especially if they are able to use political links to do so, so that competition is much smaller, and perhaps from now on it is understandable that their capacity to innovate and competitiveness are also lower if we have to go to international markets. Therefore, the various indicators also indicate that Hungary is most lagging behind in the field of innovation, institutional background and quality of institutional service and in the field of business dynamics. These are all linked to the question that my fellow Member from the LMP has just said, that the quality of education is indeed a significant factor in our competitiveness. That is why we are saying, rather than taking huge steps towards improving competitiveness in Hungary, but rather there is a distortion of competition in Hungary, and I have included that perhaps there are no more countries within the European Union where politics would be based on the economy to this extent, and to this extent the state will would be enforced, and this will cause serious difficulties; as well as the very low export capacity of Hungarian companies, non-multinational companies, and we do not really see how small and medium-sized entrepreneurs can jump to such a level, to this extent, how they can achieve quality progress, jumping, and, where appropriate, international markets. We therefore believe that the government is not doing enough to improve our competitiveness. It is not enough that there may indeed be more resources available from the European Union to support the small and medium-sized enterprises sector or even economic development projects, and I think that much more should be done, and I think that Hungary's long-term interest and national interest would also require that in many areas, but I think it would also be worth developing a national minimum in this area, in which all political parties can agree, since from one year to the next it is not possible to significantly increase the competitiveness of one country's economic or business sphere. It is therefore worth agreeing on this in the long term and bringing in measures to this House in which political parties can agree in the long term. By the way, this has been the case before, and this exercise has been interrupted by you after 2010. In the past, there have been a number of areas, such as the field of energy, where, I remember, many times, the various government proposals were passed through Parliament by 99 percent and 96 percent, which was due to the fact that the then government sat down with the opposition politicians and discussed the challenges and the possible answers to them. So I would urge the Secretary of State to take the message with him in any way that, on the one hand, there is openness in the opposition to contribute and help with our own toolbox to achieve these goals, but to do so, we must not only be able to address these issues in relation to the presentation of such a parliamentary bill, but also to ask the policy makers of the various factions what they really think is right and good from the point of view of creating a more competitive Hungary. Once again, I would like to conclude the introductory exposé with which I started by saying that, since this bill does not meet these objectives, and since it has actually become such a salad law rather than a programme for competitiveness or for a more competitive Hungary, a package of measures aimed at improving it, the MSZP fraction will not support this proposal. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik and Dialogue.]]
u2019-11-22-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the Dialogue Group is Mr Tamás Mellar. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[13.40]]
u2019-11-22-117	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I'm gonna start with the title, too, 'cause I have a problem with that. The title promises to be more competitive in implementing certain tax measures of the programme for Hungary and the others, and in comparison to that, in fact, if we look at this material, we see that it is all about the salad law relating to the launch of the Eva and one or two other related things. So there are not many things about competitiveness that I think are absolutely appropriate, because in my studies, I came to the conclusion that not only I, but also the economic profession, that tax reductions cannot achieve lasting competitiveness gains [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: That's right!]] So it's in the curriculum. If you don't believe me or the curriculum, you might want to look at, say, the rankings of the most competitive countries, look at the top ten places, and then you'll see that there are countries like Sweden, Denmark, Finland. If you look at the taxes they have, you can also see that there are very high taxes in these countries, and you can even say that the highest taxes are in these countries. Because competitiveness doesn't depend on it. And the government and the pro-government representatives always have a great celebration when they talk about 9 percent corporate tax and how good it is and how much capital it brings here. But, please, what do you mean by "9 percent of corporate tax"? That means that foreign capital, which comes to Hungary, is low enough to produce a low value added content, because it can create and produce this low tax. If he were to be subject to a higher tax, he would be forced to produce products with higher value added [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: That's right!]] However, this would mean increasing competitiveness and increasing overall productivity. It is no coincidence that Hungarian productivity reaches 40% of the EU average. Similarly, it can be said with regard to Sija that the single-key girl who hits low-income people by 15 percent as well as high-income earners means that low-income people are overburdened, and therefore does not provide them with catching up and equal opportunities. However, those countries, the economies that are truly competitive, are not competitive because the elite 3 percent, the top 3 percent is very, very smart, it is also very smart in Hungary, we are very happy with it, we are proud of it, but the 30-40 percent below is the one that can produce high-level mass products and produce high-quality, high-value, but competitive products. This, however, requires that these social groups do not slip down, so that they have a strong middle class, and that would require a completely different kind of taxation. So I think that if we really are thinking about competitiveness and we want taxation to play a role in this, then the whole tax system should be transformed and rethinked, so that we can really move forward. But that's not at all what we're talking about here, by the way. What you can say as a positive is something to do with the evacuation of the Eva. Probability, presumption, and, ultimately, it is possible that this will be a step in the whitening of the economy, in the reduction of administrative burdens, this is undoubtedly possible. However, because, as my fellow Member has already said, this will certainly be a problem and uncertainty as to what taxpayers will choose instead. The other is whether the NAV will be properly prepared to be able to properly manage this increased administration for it. That's the other side of the thing. Then there is another element that can be treated as positive, but I am a fan of norm, and I do not think that the Corvinus University of Budapest will achieve a status here, as an exception, that local taxes will not apply to it. I have already read the sentences on this, which are trying to justify it, but I really don't understand it and I don't really see the actual justification for it. I think that this is an exception or a honeycomb which will later want to contribute to this happening in this area as well; which will also be against competitiveness, because, as you can see, they want to create an elite university from Corvinus University, and this clearly again points in the direction that there will not be a strong middle class, and therefore there will not be a competitive Hungarian economy. So, based on all of this and taking into account the Dialogue faction, it cannot support this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2019-11-22-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. Now is the time for two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpat. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-11-22-119	Mr President, Dear House, As it seems to be the number of speakers who have logged in that we can prepare for a longer debate, I feel confidently that the Secretary of State should take part in this debate with regard to reactions already, not only in the closing, especially because we have a fair discussion between us, my fellow committee member has an excellent attitude during this debate. Let's take advantage of these moments of grace, very few of them in the House's life. I would like to point out to the Secretary of State that he has made such calculations as to how he can erod the discount mass of this package from the other side, the economic wave or wave caused by the much weaker exchange rate of the forint. I will protect the Secretary of State from any opposition charges which, where appropriate, would only hold Hungary's Government responsible for the weak exchange rate of the forint. I don't do this, I find it unprofessional to say that the only thing responsible for the exchange rate of a national currency is the regent government, and I think it would be insane to spread it seriously, more widely. We also see that a lot of spill-over international economic processes are affecting all of this, but we can also see that there is plenty of direct and much more indirect potential for the Government of Hungary to act in the direction of not knowingly keeping the forint in a weak band, as the Prime Minister argued years ago that this is a good forint exchange rate for exporting Hungarian companies. The fact is that among the exporting companies, we can find successful Hungarian companies producing for the external market, which are, say, medium-sized companies, typically serving the interests of these multinationals. It's not necessarily a problem, Mr. Secretary, that we pay 30-40 thousand forints more for such an iPhone because of the lower current exchange rate. [[He's showing me a cell phone.]] As in previous years, I am more concerned by the fact that import products cannot be excluded from basic food. So the Hungarian population is paying the price of the unduly weak exchange rate right now. So, do you have a plan for this? Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-22-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. A proper speech from the Jobbik Group will be followed by Mrs Varga-Damm Andrea. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-11-22-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, He would've gotten away with both the government and the government if he hadn't given me that title to this bill, because then maybe I wouldn't have looked at it so much, and then I wouldn't have said anything. The greatest pleasure in this House today is that our fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, is not here, because by my next sentences, I am sure that he would have responded and stood up and said that we could then declare that the opposition wants to raise taxes. That's what he does. [[Lajos Korózs applauds.]] That's how you do it, isn't it? But we got away with this because he's not here. [[Lajos Korózs: He's coming back!]] And we're hoping the Secretary of State will call you back and tell you that we're missing you here. The Secretary of State may not be mistaken for such political journeys. So competitiveness as a title: I thought that I would see rules in it that would clearly be in favour of some kind, not of oligarchs or multinationals, but rather of the middle class by means of measures. [[13.50]] It is quite peculiar that simply a package of changes to the tax system would be called competitiveness, because I thought that, for example, competitiveness could be increased by the granting of certain subsidies which, for example, have not so far been included in the government's economic policy. This title could have been given to the legislative package discussed recently, in recent days, in which, for example, the opening of the Hungarian Development Bank to small entrepreneurs, because it improves competitiveness. Competitiveness, said Mr Mellar, cannot be increased by taxation alone, because competitiveness appears when greater added value is shown, for example, in the manufacturing industry, and then, with the result, the benefits of raising the standard of living of society and the competitiveness of our country can be reflected back in society. I would like to highlight two elements of this legislative package. One is the emergence of private foundations, trust foundations in the legal system and its adaptation to tax laws. The appearance of this whole private foundation system alone, together with the fact that it is clear that it has been a very long-used institution in the Western world, but in Hungary, in such a polarized society, in addition to such huge poor layers and the emergence of such a narrowly rich layer, it was not elegant for society to create this kind of institution this way. We're lucky the people don't know much about it, but it's no wonder in such a manipulated media system. So, in itself, when I write competitiveness and, for example, the tax adaptation of the private foundation, we can say that, yes, the competitiveness of the oligarch families will certainly be improved, only in the title would it have been worth referring to, because these private foundations or these trust foundations are normally operating around the world to optimize taxes, or to avoid anomalies in the inheritance system. In this way, it would have been more elegant for the government if society had not been introduced in addition to the title of competitiveness in the tax optimization legislation of private foundations. And the other thing is, we keep saying that 9 percent of corporate tax actually serves nothing but the support of large companies. I would like to confront this issue with the still 27 percent VAT. My colleague Péter Ovádi said very kindly that when the socialists wanted to reduce taxes, there was always more burden. Well, they never took the VAT above 25 percent, and it wasn't a big deal in 90. the terrible budget deficit or financial relations after the economic crisis, or macroeconomic and budgetary relations, are corrected by the downsizing of private pension assets or by the introduction of 27 per cent VAT. It would have been a miracle if the indicators hadn't improved. I'm showing you numbers on this one, just to make sense of it. If an employee who is unable to benefit from a family tax allowance has a gross income of HUF 200,000, he will give the budget 100 thousand forints each month with taxes, contributions and fees generated as a result of his purchase. He'll give you 100 grand out of 200,000 gross. It's horrible. If all you do is look at the revenue of a large company and how much... oh, my God, my fellow Member, Lőrinc Nacsa, hallelujah, hallelujah, hallelujah! At least now there will be a reaction that I want to raise taxes, so the point is that if we do nothing but look at the revenue of a large company and all the taxes and contributions that are charged to it, I'm sure it's not a 50 percent result. What we need to see is that the huge number of society and the far narrower number of people in economic life in Hungary, from a tax point of view, is a huge break that cannot be carried forward by the government. Now, there may still be a very nice number of economic ascents, and it so covers all the problems below, but once it starts to decrease and it reappears, whether the unemployment rate declines or if it appears that the cheap labour force that has been brought in for tens of thousands of dollars will not work for such cheap money, then we will see what the consequences will be. Recently, a few hours ago, we discussed Vietnam's investment defence agreement with the European Union, and then there was quite a lot of information from the speakers, including me. At that time, it was a very important fact that while 70 percent of Vietnamese society lived in extreme poverty in 1990, by 2018 it was only 10 percent as a result of terrible economic development. In Hungary, 13 percent of the 90s first grew, and then only went back to 15 percent. Let us see, then, that our poverty rate has deteriorated. Ten thousand Western companies settled in Vietnam since the 1960s, generating this enormous economic performance, but imagine that VAT is 10 percent, VAT on basic foods is 5 percent, VAT on luxury products I am talking about Vietnam can now go up to 70 percent, and most importantly, corporate tax is 20 percent. So it is not true that if we bring the corporate tax down to such a low level, it will generate any kind of increase in GDP, productivity growth, competitiveness growth. Mr. Mellar has just brought countless countries here, but he has brought older, civilized, long-standing countries here, and I have now brought the new XXI. It's a century-old tiger as an example. I just want to say that, and I ask the representatives of the government to start going back from unorthodox thinking to orthodox thinking, and indeed to collect those international experiences, whether from the west or from the east, which will convince you to do so. And we need to start negotiating with the multinationals, too, because they will not be able to maintain this social-distorting, social-breaking relationship with 9 percent corporate tax and 27 percent VAT. These two are very, very helpful for the polarization of society, not just to maintain it, but to deepen it. I think that we should start by developing a coherent, complete tax system transformation idea, which does not increase taxes in its total volume. In some segments, yes, because they have to pay more, because they have higher profitability, and where profitability is very low, they have to start reducing taxes, because the power of society needs to be rebuilt into a more competitive, purchasing, stronger society. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-22-122	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. We now have two-minute speeches. First I give the floor to MEP Zoltán Magyar from Jobbik's group.
u2019-11-22-123	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. As an absolute layman, I would like to ask just one specific question in these two minutes, since my area is not the law currently under discussion. However, in my host hour, there was a question that was about to come here, and I went over the package, and I couldn't find an answer. In the case of the construction of a new house or apartment, there have been about two choices for a citizen so far, either he chose the 5-percent reduced VAT solution, or he stayed in the 27 per cent package, and at that time he was able to recover HUF 5 million in a form of VAT refund. Both options will cease on 1 December. The government gave the voters of 5% VAT some way out by pushing the deadline if certain conditions were in place, but this option has not yet been published among the voters of the other version, i.e. those who have chosen a VAT refund of HUF 5 million. [[14.00]] Thus there is a certain uncertainty and, in any case, a distinction between citizens according to which method they have chosen. I would like to have a reassuring answer to this particular question, that there will be some kind of deadline for them, so that they can make use of this opportunity at least if they have, say, an existing building permit or other conditions, or if this regrettable distinction remains. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-11-22-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next two-minute speaker is Mr Sándor Kovács, from the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-11-22-125	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, In the meantime, my fellow Member Nacsa has arrived, but I just wanted to send two thoughts to a congresswoman on the subject of Eger, Adam Mirkóczki and the tax increase. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Oh, that's a little different.]] Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: That was such a good debate! Why did you have to ruin it?]]
u2019-11-22-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2019-11-22-127	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Since my colleague Andrea Varga-Damm quoted me when I was just in the garage, I got here. [[Noise from Jobbik's benches. Dániel Z. Carpathian: Maybe Yoga! The president's ringing the bell.]] I'll take this opportunity to tell you that Jobbik wants a tax increase. Because that's what he expected from me. But more importantly, [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Now let's do something professional!]] that your speech lacked EU findings and statistics on poverty indicators [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: I missed them! Because there's more of it.]] have appeared in recent years [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: I told you at the beginning!]] for example, the reduction in the risk of social exclusion or poverty by one million over the last year. It also decreased by a higher percentage among children, i.e. among those under 18. [[Z. Dániel Carpathian: Own Measurement? The president will have his glass jogged.]] Congressman, just so we have something to talk about. The European Union has also found that the overall poverty situation has also improved a lot over the past six years, especially in the last six years, i.e. only between 2013 and 2019. We have repeatedly spoken about this, for example, in the Committee on Welfare, under the leadership of President Korózs, and these are the results. I understand how it sounds to me that you're always trying to scare people with increasing poverty. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] and we are almost 15 or 16-18 million poor people in Hungary. I understand that this is politically rewarding for you, but the figures show that poverty is constantly decreasing, the number of people exposed to poverty is constantly falling. I am not saying that whatever we are at the end of this, I am not saying that, no matter how far we are at the end of the road and we are finished, but that we have achieved a very, very great result in reducing poverty and that we must continue to do so. I hope that you will support the measures in this regard, as they have often not done so far. They have done so a few times, for the sake of fairness, but I hope that in the future they will support these decisions at a higher rate than before, of which, by the way, one of the very fundamental elements is the continuous tax reduction. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-22-128	Thank you very much. I would also like to address Mr Tamás Mellar for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2019-11-22-129	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to reply to my fellow Member's previous statement. In this house, this Hungarian miracle has been mentioned several times, that poverty, the number of poor people, has not fallen from one year to the next by one million people. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: In six years!]] Anyway, big leaps like this are only in gymnastics, not in statistics or social processes. What's this about? About the change in the concept of poverty and the methodology on which the recording was made. During the previous period, it included whether the household was able to make a larger amount of savings, and a lot of people replied that they were not. Then there was a change, after which it was written that you could save 70,000 forints to cover an unexpected expense. Then came a completely different answer. In such a situation, when this recording changes, it must either be indicated and cannot be compared with the previous one, or the so-called Janus year must be introduced, when Janus year means that in the given year the recording will be recorded in the traditional way and in the new method, and on the basis of the difference between the two they form a chain ratio, making the whole series homogeneous. Unfortunately, however, KSH did not do so. When we visited KSH, we asked the president of the KSH, and unfortunately this did not happen. Consequently, what you are saying is that poverty has fallen so spectacularly, it does not correspond to reality, it does not correspond to statistical data. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-11-22-130	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to address Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát as a representative. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-11-22-131	Mr President, Dear House, Although I am interested in everyone's opinion, the recent pro-government contributions have greatly affected the moment of grace that we had here in this Chamber before, because we could, in fact, agree with the present pro-government fellows in basic terms. Especially this two-minute period, my fellow Member, Eger and Adam Mirkóczki, brought me here. Well, please...! Before anyone... [[Sándor Kovács: The first thing he did was raise taxes!]] Now I'm gonna do the talking, and then you're gonna press the button, and then you're gonna talk, and you're gonna keep your voice down. Now it's my turn to talk.
u2019-11-22-132	Congressman Kovács, I'll give you the floor if you want.
u2019-11-22-133	[[Sándor Kovács is on the phone.]] The thing is, before you reproach me in this style, think about it, maybe you can keep an eye on what your government has done on whose behalf you're sitting here. It is memorable that the Balliberal governments also produced an amazing increase in VAT, not necessarily a good result because they promised a reduction many times, and the result was an increase. Then in 2010, there was a Fidesz government, and what did you do with the VAT raised to 25 percent, my fellow Member? When he yells at you, think about what you've done with the VAT. What did you do with your vote with the 25 percent VAT on the children's education articles? He's raised it to 27 percent! They lied, they didn't cut it back the way they should. They didn't lift it? It's not 27 percent? You've raised the previous 25 percent to 27 percent! On what grounds are you reproaching a mayor elected three weeks ago? While thousands of billions of Hungarian families are bleeding out with 27 percent World Record VAT. Think about this before you speak on this issue. I do not want to open a debate here on the reduction, growth and expansion of poverty, not the subject of this agenda; we have often conducted this discussion, and we will continue it. Well, speaking of international statistics, I didn't want to, but I always have a backpack like this in my bag. [[Nacsa Lőrinc shows up his phone.]] There's the phone. Very good, then we'll have something to talk about. OECD. According to the survey of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, the taxes on employment in Hungary are still at the sixth highest level among the Member States, i.e. at a brutally high level. I do not dispute that there has been a decrease of 1.1 percentage points in the tax wedge recently, but this is still 45%, and if these data sets are examined, we see that only Belgian, German, Italian, French and Austrian workers in the OECD Member States are subject to higher burdens than Hungarians. It's a pretty amazing ratio. In OECD Member States, the average is 36.1 percent, which is 9 percentage points lower than the Hungarian burden. So when you talk about the government of tax cuts, think about it, my fellow Members, that they tax these workers by about 9 percent better than what is typical in the community of these countries, and that consumption is also brutally taxed with the 27 percent VAT. We have not achieved that in nine years to at least make some concessions on child-rearing articles, as we articulate common demographic goals. All sane people want Hungarian reproduction to be restored, or we can finally talk about it at all, because now, unfortunately, the indicators show a new decline. We also need to see that with regard to the OECD in the countries under investigation, the one-searching, but two-children... [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea sneezes.]] Cheers, Congressman. , the average tax burden for single earning families with two children was 26,6 percent in all OECD countries, with the same tax burden in Hungary above 30 percent. Thus, families with two children are in a very difficult situation, whether single search communities living in mosaic families are taxed much better than in OECD countries. That is why I say that before any criticism of the first steps of a local government is expressed, think about where our country has come in a decade and where it could have gone if these brakes, ballasts, had not been put into this system. We also see that there are, of course, gestureal and supported changes, such as the total tax exemption for women with four children. My problem with that is that there was an original fidesz promise here. My fellow Member, I want you to criticize me now. What was the original promise about? Retrievable: Mothers with three children were promised a total tax exemption. I didn't make it up, although I support it, if you bring it in, I'll vote for it any time. [[14.10]] It's just that they looked at how many people could use this, and they found a figure of over 100,000, and they thought that, well, the budgetary pull of this would be a little bit tougher, let's just say that four children can enjoy the full tax exemption, and here they found only a large amount of 30,000 of our compatriots. Few more than half of them can be found in a meaningful notified workplace, and a woman or mother who is the most important, beautiful service to our country, raising four children, think about it: is she supposed to be working as a CEO at a multi-company or head of a financial firm? I hope there are some, but I'm still living with the suspicion that that's not the case. So I see that we can accept this tax exemption as a gesture for four children, but perhaps we should open up to wider social immersion, then we could also talk about demographic goals. Let's talk about this a little bit, because I would like my fellow Members to respond to it, because there are serious numbers to be debated here. For the EU as a whole, it is also worth looking at the amount of taxes collected by the OECD, with an increase in total tax revenue of 3.6 percent in 2018 at EU level in a single year. In Hungary, in 2018, we see that we are only at the beginning of the midfield, so we do not go out at all in terms of tax reductions, but in terms of revenue, we can expect a 7.5 percent increase, with roughly a double increase in the size of the additional tax collected by the additional OECD or EU Western Member States. Therefore, in terms of taxes collected, the most interesting thing is to look at the change between 2010 and 2018, i.e. during the Fidesz governments. Here the tax revenue collected increased by 58 percent. The EU average was 30 per cent. So we find about a double value, and to admit this in itself that the Hungarian economy is wow, but it is very shabby, and how much more tax is paid by companies, well, it doesn't work because the split of the Hungarian economy is typically due to the multi-networks of beneficiaries brought here, who, however, don't take their share of the tax, especially after receiving a one-digit, record-low corporate tax from this government. So you're the ones who deny your own mantra that the economy would spin so much more tax payments. The fact is that it is not; it is not necessarily the increase in corporate tax that is behind the process, but it is typically the taxes on consumption, the taxes on the Hungarian population in its sharpest, lowest and most difficult segment. And the reason why you consider as a government of tax cuts is what you have done to a typical young Hungarian in a life situation! On the one hand, the VAT content of child-rearing articles and basic foods was increased to 27% even if one or two of the basic foods were later released from VAT. So, where there was a substitute product, we could see that the price reduction was in the rarest cases. In the meantime, they did it to the young Hungarians that the state leg of housing savings had been removed and nothing had been put in its place. So, a lot of people, who, say, have collected their share of the CSOK with LTP, Fundamenta and others, now have no pre-saving support. I consider it a legitimate basis for debate, Mr Secretary of State, that the activities of Fundamenta and others had to be examined, because I do not want anyone to deal with state aid instead of their own products, I do not think that about this company, but I also had concerns about it, so it is a legitimate basis for discussion. But to eliminate it in a few days, and to put nothing in its place, is simply an assassination against the Hungarian youth and the Hungarian future. I am also in a small debate with my fellow opposition Members as regards hostels. I cannot accept, either because of economic and mobility considerations, that hundreds of thousands of foreign workers are imported here, currently only rotationally, rotationally, every 90 days. But when the first Cyrillic inscriptions appear at the so-called workers' hostels, and then appear in the small shops and shops in the area, then the images of former Turkish so-called migrant workers are revealed a few decades earlier and a little further away, but the final result is known. I do not want the same in Hungary. And when, for young people, the Secretary of State Tállai talks about how professional it is for young Hungarians to expand working accommodations, then people seriously think. In terms of the HUF exchange rate, however, we asked substantive questions. Once again, not only in the case of the iPhone, a 30-40 thousand HUF plus bothers me, which we pay for the unduly low exchange rate, but also, let's say, the fact that the extra charge for basic foods cannot be avoided. In this way, the Hungarian population who would like to give you a rhetorical discount will pay for the low forint exchange rate. But, as we have mentioned, the tax revenue collected has increased tremendously, not because of the corporate world, but because of the taxes on consumption, and while on the other hand, they have taken away a lot of benefits from those concerned, so that we do not mention the taxation of the minimum wage. This deserves a separate debate. But it's not as white and it's not as clear as you painted it. As far as tax increases are concerned, I urge everyone in this House to remain moderate in criticism. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-22-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. There are two-minute speeches coming up. First, I address Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2019-11-22-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would say to my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, that when he was in the garage, I told him that at the time of the change of regime, we had a social group with 12.8% extreme poverty, and then, of course, he went over 20 percent, and we were at 15 percent in 18. So I was just saying that we're still at 15 percent, even after a downward trend. To my fellow Member, Mr Sándor Kovács, I would say that you said Eger, I say Veszprém. Here there is a fidesz municipality, a tourist tax increase, a 30% increase in the parking fee, a 10% increase in public catering, and I could tell you more because in December last year, the city was indebted by creating a local bus. We were talking about 600 million, now they're at 1.6 billion, who knows what the end will be, and this big, big mistake is not about the bus introduction, but about the financial conditions of the population in Veszprém with fidesz driving. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-22-136	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Sándor Kovács is also coming up for a two-minute speech.
u2019-11-22-137	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to reflect that sooner or later, everything that belongs together will grow together. For the ninth year, we have been hearing that the kind of economic policy that the government is pursuing is going to bankrupt this country tomorrow, and interestingly, the country has achieved economic growth, the largest economic growth in Europe. This year, I think, is 152 billion HUF plus, which will give the Hungarian population additional benefits by amending the budget. I would like to refer back to you, and as much as you want to paint yourself, that you have nothing to do with coalition agreements or cooperations in the old capital led by Ferenc Gyurcsány and people smuggled back to other cities are working together to raise taxes. What political benefits this will bring is your job, my job is to draw the attention of the voters to your insolence, your job is to draw attention to the measures you consider to be taken by the government. We are calm because the measures are in the interests of the Hungarian people. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-22-138	Thank you very much. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát will be followed by a proper speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-11-22-139	Mr President, Dear House, The belief in my right is only confirmed by the fact that my stand-up pro-government fellow Members dared not talk about the 27 per cent VAT on child-rearing articles. They did not dare to explain that the tax collected increased by 58 per cent between 2010 and 2018, while the EU average was 30 per cent. And again, this cannot be said to be a so-called split-up of the economy, as corporate tax revenues have fallen dramatically due to your tax reduction, so this is typically paid by the Hungarian people in terms of the brutally high VAT burden and the taxes on consumption. Speaking of the government of tax reductions, explain why the tax burden collected has increased by more than one and a half times. So it is very important to explain this as well. But to give one of their desires a little foundation, and please use it calmly at press conferences, Facebook posts, we are always very happy with a little free advertising: Jobbik would certainly support a kind of tax increase. I would also like to help you to note this for the sake of the record and your work: we have a home-building and rental-building program called We are waiting for you, which deals mainly with the construction of rent apartments, the re-inhabitation of vacant buildings, and here we can imagine a new kind of tax. And this would be a special tax on all kinds of foreign, so foreign real estate purchases. [[14.20]] So when a transaction is made that a well-placed Hungarian-owned property is transferred to a foreign investor in the city centre, then we consider it possible to levy a one-time special tax on the transaction. All of this, if it is not necessarily possible to solve this on a budget-based basis, but we would do so in a strapped manner, in such a way that the revenue would be used exclusively for the construction of apartments in Hungary for young Hungarians. In addition, in order to mention a tax reduction from the same programme, we would grant a full tax exemption to those who rent their property to our fellow Hungarians who are under the age of 30 and who have student rights. Obviously, you can make this release tax-free. In this way, I have to say that the program we are waiting for is open to the levying of a kind of special tax, but for transactions that do not serve the interests of the Hungarian country, but rather harm it in this respect. This would not necessarily be the case if the government had noticed the runaway rent prices, intervened in the real estate market in Budapest. He did not, which is why we are forced to try to reduce foreign acquisitions by such means, not exactly called motivation, and to encourage and encourage Hungarians. So, if you mention Jobbik's intention to raise taxes at a press conference, please mention the program we are waiting for, because there is indeed a piece of one kind of tax introduction in this. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-22-140	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Before continuing the debate, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the debate under the T/8015. This is what we're talking about, so please, everyone's opinion is limited to this, as far as possible. To make a two-minute comment, I would like to address Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go.
u2019-11-22-141	Thank you very much. Mr President, Just to correct a few things for the sake of the protocol: the first and most important reason for the increase in tax revenue is the whitening of the economy, online cash registers, online invoicing and, by the way, the collection of taxes that had not been collected before, the collection of a legitimate tax, which resulted in an relentless increase in tax revenue. Thank God that this tax, the rightful place of which would be in the budget, is now coming in and not strengthening the black economy. I think we can agree on this goal, and this is the most significant part of tax growth. By the way, sectoral special taxes have also increased it, but if you remember it correctly, you know that the VAT of many basic foods has been reduced, and there is obviously one more thing that strengthens tax revenues, increasing consumption, increasing consumption, which has been made possible by a large increase in wages, so that consumption also increases. These are the winds that you simply call the biggest increase in tax revenue in the European Union, the whitening of the economy and the increase in consumption, in particular, and also a few sectoral special taxes. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-22-142	Thank you very much. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát will also be followed by a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2019-11-22-143	Mr President, Dear House, We're finally arguing. The fact is that the whitening which, by the way, my fellow Member attaches to the electronic accounts is a process that I welcome, so I support it. The most optimistic government estimate is about the amount of between 1,000 billion and 1500 billion in revenue, the increase that this could have caused over the years. What I see in the budget, however, is that only VAT-like income expectations and income generated are more than double everything. Answer, my fellow Member, why the VAT on children's education has been increased from 25 to 27 percent. They talk about demographical goals, why do they do it to Hungarians before or after having children that, in their strict sense, they have also increased the tax duration of their articles used exclusively for child rearing? So how could the family-friendly government, in the year before, then, have raised the tax on childbearing articles? What gesture is this for the Hungarian future? What message is this for young Hungarians who are now expected to be a demographic miracle, and unfortunately all our demographic indicators have started to decline? This is the real disaster, far more important than any assessment of national economic anomalies. And, yes, it would be in the interests of Hungarian history and Hungarians that everyone should now be a little absorbed, examining where they can be positively affected in terms of demographic trends, and the Government of Hungary should immediately submit its proposal for a harsh, radical reduction of the VAT on child-rearing articles. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-22-144	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask my fellow Members, who would like to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Norbert, State Secretary, if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-11-22-145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, It won't be easy to answer the questions in chronological order, because there are a lot of identical topics, so I'll try to collect my answers in a slightly logical order. First of all, I think that what was the most typical feedback, and practically three or four Members raised it, is the title of the bill. Let me thank you for letting me get this straight, because I feel like there's been a little misunderstanding here about the contents of the material. This summer, the Hungarian government adopted a competitiveness programme, which had a wide range of aspects: health, education, employment, public sector, digitalisation and taxation, so taxation was one of the many elements. This was a long-term competitiveness programme. This exit is expected in the next few years, so we are not talking about a short-term programme, we are talking about a long-term action plan. In addition, this summer an economic protection action plan was adopted, which, for the reasons of its name, contained 13+1 concrete proposals, which have already been implemented in most of them, and, moreover, we are proposing a next item in the next item on the agenda. So this action plan is what plans to take concrete decisive steps in the near future to increase our competitiveness. This bill concerns the tax part of the competitiveness package, so it does not want to take into account all the elements of the competitiveness programme, but rather to implement the points that have not yet taken place. The most typical element of this point is tax simplification, the fact that the tax administration can also carry out tax returns for businesses. So this is what this package is trying to focus on, which is one of the tax measures of the Competitiveness Programme that it has not implemented. It is also a very important link, and I think that almost all Members after Mr Csárdi have come to this comment that they have started to list the elements of the economic protection action plan that have been implemented. That's not what this package is about. I thanked you for listing the tax benefits of accommodation tax, R &amp; D, working quarters, which we gave in the economic protection action plan, which was accepted by Parliament a few months ago, so we are talking about tax measures implemented. This package, which we are debating today, is not the package that was included in the Economic Protection Action Plan, so I am pleased that we have been able to put it in a bit of a position to promote a point in the Competitiveness Programme and within it the reduction of tax administration. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát made relatively many comments and comments on tax policy and economic policy. Let me also join in the debate that the results of economic policy are now clearly supported by all numbers. I think it is not a timely debate to continue this, whether Hungarian economic policy has gone in the right direction and Hungarian tax policy has gone in the right direction, because I think it is out of discussion that we have been able to achieve fantastic results both in economic policy and in tax policy. I was also shocked to hear the question of Mr Z. Kárpát, why there is such a high tax revenue, and it is as if this was not a desired goal, but many Members are still trying to suggest tax increases that even more taxes might have to be imposed. I think it should be made clear that the efficiency of collecting tax revenues has improved enormously in Hungary. In agreement with Congressman Nacsa, whitening is the source we are looking for, so whitening is the answer to why we can collect such a high amount of tax revenue. This, by the way, gives us room for manoeuvre to cut taxes. There have also been a lot of proposals for a systemic reform of the tax system. I think we're in this right now, so there's a tax system transformation going on. The past, practically six to eight years, is about the transformation of the Hungarian tax system and we are trying to encourage the weight of consumption and traffic taxes in the Hungarian tax system. This is typical of VAT and excise duty, and we are trying to drastically reduce income taxes, we will continue to reduce taxes and taxes on taxes and taxes on labour. [[14.30]] I think that this debate has been decided in such a way that we have followed a good course in these six years. All indicators show that this way we can support those in need much more effectively and much more strongly, and we can collect taxes much more strongly, so the economy is whitening, taxpayers and fraudulent taxpayers cannot avoid taxation. I think that this is the recipe that needs to be followed at least here in Eastern Central Europe. There may be countries where income can otherwise be taxed much more strongly. I think that we should also take account of the regional features. If you look at the level of corporate tax, for example, it is obvious that we are first in this ranking, that is not even a question, but the countries of the region are all in a range of less than 15 percent. So it is typical for the whole region that we are carrying out a competitive income tax, and otherwise in Western Europe, typically France, Germany, it is typical that businesses are taxed at more than 25 per cent and 30 per cent respectively, which is a huge competitive disadvantage for the entire European Union at global level. Therefore, it should be noted that third countries, i.e. Asian and US companies, are far from experiencing such a tax burden. I would also like to correct a little bit that Dániel Z. Kárpát responded to the thawing of a contribution from the four contributions. It is not included in this package either, and we will discuss it on the next agenda. I'd love to have your comments there, too. I'm also trying to answer a few more specific questions right now. Uncertainty about the evacuation of the Eva. Here, let me confirm that we have provided the Ministry of Finance and NAV with more extensive information than ever before. We have created a perhaps revolutionary calculator in which, by virtually HUF, the oars can see exactly what tax burden they can expect in which type of taxation, so it is worth choosing the kata, the kiva, or the sja, or the corporate tax, so which is the one that best applies to your life situation. I think we're giving these businesses all the help we can get. And with regard to the cata, if there is any uncertainty, I have to say that if you want to be a catalysmic entrepreneur from a food business, you don't have to expect any uncertainty, we don't plan any tightening up for this circle. What there is uncertainty, and what we see is that industrial chambers are also pushing for it, is that if a person moves from employment to a job, there is a good chance that his employer will force him into this situation, we need to look at these life situations more strictly and closely. It won't affect the food. So it is safe for the eavesdroppers to choose the kata if they think it is the best kind of tax for them. With regard to the exchange rate of the forint, I think I'd just spend half a minute on that question. The government still doesn't have an exchange rate target. Dániel Z. Kárpát indicated that the amount of benefits provided in this package would lose practically its value because of inflation. Let me also clarify that there is no discount in this package. So this package before us is not a tax reduction package, which causes hundreds or tens of billions of income losses, because we accepted it in the spring. So it is the government's policy that, when the budget is drawn up, it also decides on substantive tax changes, precisely so that the credibility of the budget is not damaged. So there are no tax measures in this amending package that have a substantial impact on the budget, so I cannot answer this question. With regard to the OECD, which the Member presented as a model example, we also discussed this last year, I also said that it was a flawed analysis, so it is a technically unfounded analysis. Looking at corporate tax alone, it is indeed a little unsubstantiated professionally, since business tax in Hungary is practically twice the burden on companies as much as corporate tax. So we at all forums say that, indeed, corporate tax is the most competitive tax rate in the European Union, but we have another type of tax that can be levied by local authorities and also by businesses. If you look at these two together, you'll get a much more circumstantial picture than just looking at the income collected by corporate tax. I would also like to respond to the OECD study that when an OECD study generally examines the Hungarian tax system, it never examines the system of preferences. The Hungarian system offers extremely wide discounts, we only give 380 billion forints to families with children in Szaja, and as a socho discount, almost 80-100 billion is left every year with economic operators, also as a benefit for employment. These discounts, the socho discount, cannot be taken into account by the OECD system. So it reflects a state of not being very targeted and very effective tax incentives in Hungary, although there are others. As I said in response to Mr Csárdi's question, it was in a legislative act adopted a few months ago, but I am glad that we have been able to draw attention to the economic protection action plan, the elements of which will be implemented by all debtors after the inclusion in the next item. Therefore, the steps in debt have already been taken. I would also like to point out that the government has a very strong impact or role in economic growth, as EU funds also play a role in this, but perhaps to the smallest extent. It is clear that it is economic policy and internal engines, i.e. internal consumption, that support this 5-percent economic growth. I think that this cannot be taken into account that economic policy and tax policy have a very strong impact in this regard. He also came to an interesting conclusion Congressman Csárdi said that if the labour market is tight, companies will swallow the socho reduction. I think that this cannot be derived from economic logic in any case, but the reverse is yes: if the labour market is tight, then the employer must do everything in his power to raise wages more and more, and this has happened anyway. In parallel with the socho reduction, there was a rather significant increase in the minimum wage, and the increase in the minimum wage in the past has always resulted in a clear rise in wages around the minimum wage, in those categories of wages. However, now that the labour market is tight, it is apparent that wages have increased significantly in wage categories far beyond the minimum wage, i.e. 400-500-600 thousand forints, so the firmness of the labour market means that employers must do everything they can to manage these contributions, and that they have to spend their existing resources on wage increases, as the labour force is moving away from them. I therefore think that the reverse of what the Member said is true. Mr Mesterházy also criticised the name of the Competitiveness Programme; I think I have answered that. Mr Mellar also mentioned in the context of the tight labour market that the system is working in a tight labour market by swallowing the Socho reduction by companies; and the Member also indicated that if I remember correctly that if we were to damage companies by tax increases, they would be forced to higher productivity and thus the productivity of the economy as a whole would be higher. I think that we have chosen a different path, not to impose corporate tax on companies and other taxes, but to tell companies to pay higher wages. This is also enforced by the market itself, as a result of a tight labour market. I think that if the mechanism of action that you think is true is that if the burden on the company is higher, then your productivity will be higher, then this should also be true for higher wages. So we are in favour of higher wages, employers pay competitive, high wages to workers, and on this basis, there should be an increase in productivity and an increase in GDP growth. The single-key tax has also received criticism here many times in today's debate. I also think it is difficult to get rid of the single-key tax, by the way, that it increases labour supply, so there is a circle that it draws into the labour market, and another feature that I think in Eastern Central Europe, I think it should not be forgotten that the single-key tax system is significantly bleaching. The congestion of a progressive tax system is very beautiful, that at certain limits or levels individual incomes are very disrupted. So if there are more keys, then there will always be a circle that is encouraged to either hold back its performance or choose a gray mode. The Hungarian system is clear, proportionate, and I think that the experience so far has fulfilled the expectations that have been given. I would like to tell Mr Zoltán Magyar that his question is very topical, but we do not need to find the answer in this package, because it is not a tax measure. But it's topical because the regulation was issued yesterday, which, by the way, gives us the opportunity to refund this VAT. So this is not a tax measure, it is a State aid, and it will be possible to continue using it as of 1 January. It will enter into force on 1 January, but yesterday this regulation was published in the Gazette. So I can give you a reassuring answer. [[Hungarian Zoltán: Thank you.]] I don't think I've responded to one last point. The VAT rate for articles relating to the education of children has been said from the mouth of Mr Z. Carpathian. I think that we have also had this debate several times, that because of an obligation of the European Union, a reduced VAT rate cannot be used for this product product. [[14.40]] Therefore, the general key should also be used for this product scope, which is 27 percent in Hungary, which is also due to the transformation of the tax system. So I think that getting him away from this government is trying to support families, I think he can't. If we could have, I think we would have done it already. We cannot reduce this VAT rate because of an EU obligation. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-22-146	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments could be tabled by 16:00 yesterday. We now have a general debate on the bill on the right holders of social security and the coverage of these benefits until closure. Government referral T/8021. can be accessed by everyone on the House's IT network. I now give the floor to Mr Norbert Izer, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance, the author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-11-22-147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, One of the most important instruments of government's economic policy is the legislative framework that we set up in the legislative process. Therefore, economic legislation, as well as economic policy, must be shaped in such a way that it will enable our economy to develop as quickly as possible and thus enable the Hungarian people to thrive. Today, when we have to account for the slowing down of global economic processes, the rapid changes in the international political situation and the digital transformation linking to increasing speed, it requires decisive, rapid and, at the same time, careful measures, measures that help the Hungarian economy to remain at an outstanding pace of development, for which our businesses, people and government have worked in recent years. According to KSH's third quarter growth data, the performance of the Hungarian economy increased by 5 percent on an annual basis. If we look at the first three-quarters of this year, the Hungarian economy has increased by 5.1 percent, i.e. it has maintained its outstanding performance despite negative expectations. However, it is also clear that we need to make sure that our economy continues to grow at a pace of catching up. In practice, this means further improving the management environment of companies and businesses, encouraging investment and government steps to boost the competitiveness and productivity of domestic companies. That is why the government has adopted and implemented the Competitiveness Programme and the Economic Protection Action Plan. In the latter, we have summarised in 13+1 the steps that we need to take as soon as possible to ensure the continued development of Hungarian businesses. Of these, the points concerning tax reductions have already been implemented, the social contribution tax has been reduced as early as 1 July this year, and the small company tax will be reduced by 1 percentage point from 1 January. The objective of the point in the Economic Protection Action Plan simplifying the tax system is to exempt farmers from serious expenditure by reducing bureaucratic burdens, for example, by reducing the time spent on administration. Therefore, in the proposal before you, for the sake of better transparency, we have incorporated all the provisions on the regulation of contributions in a law and we are proposing simplifications and amendments that make the procedures for payment of contributions more favourable, simpler and more transparent. I would like to highlight the most important changes. Instead of the four contributions so far, a single contribution should be paid to employees, i.e. standardising income contributions. We will exempt pensioners from the obligation to pay contributions, make it more favourable for children to benefit from the allowance, clarify the rules on health care contributions, and propose amendments to make the system of contributions more fair, eliminate stowaways from the system. I would like to stress that the proposal we are discussing is another element of a simplification process, since last year, the health contribution was incorporated into the social contribution tax, also known as eho. The new uniform contribution, i.e. the social security contribution, is proposed at 18,5 percent. This corresponds to the amount of the four contributions currently in force. It is important to point out that all social security obligations, such as payment and reporting obligations, are simplified by the proposal. This will lead to substantial time savings for more than 325 thousand employers. In addition to the significant simplification of the tax system, this step will also ensure that, after 1 July 2020, first-time producers and contract workers can obtain access to labour market benefits. The new uniform contribution also means a reduction in contributions for businesses, as the new contribution will have to be paid to individual and social enterprises after the minimum wage. Currently, health insurance and labour market contributions are paid at least one and a half times the minimum wage by individual and social entrepreneurs, so the new rule could save them HUF 7.5 billion per year. There is a significant reduction in contributions that will be due to all employees' pensioners as of 1 July. This generally represents a 14 per cent increase in income for the majority of stakeholders. From this year onwards, a worker under the Labour Code who is a pensioner of his or her own right can be employed free of charge and social contributions. This exemption would be extended by the bill to all gainful activities carried out by a pensioner. According to the bill, the employer would not be subject to a social contribution tax if he employed a pensioner with his own right, i.e. as of July 1, 2020 only 15% of his pensioner's income would be charged, which would save HUF 13.5 billion for the individuals concerned and leave an additional HUF 6 billion for the employers. The pensioner self-employed will be exempted from the payment of the current 10 percent pension contribution and the health service contribution. The measure leaves 7 billion forints to the affected 36,000 social entrepreneurs and 25,000 individual entrepreneurs. Dear Parliament, The tax reduction can also be expected for families with children, as it will be even more beneficial to benefit from a family benefit for children. At present, this benefit cannot be deducted from the labour market contribution of 1.5 per cent, but after the entry into force of this section of the Act, this family benefit will be payable at the expense of the total social security contribution of 18,5 per cent. With this measure, we leave an additional HUF 1 billion in the register of families, and I think that this amendment is a worthy continuation of the policy that we have made in the course of the transformation of the tax system in the interests of families. A new legal institution is also included in the bill, which allows a uniform five-year general limitation period for taxes and levies to be ignored in certain cases. The reason for this is that a very long period of time between the establishment of a pension and the payment of contributions, sometimes up to 40 years, is that, in these cases, the general limitation period of five years is too short. In addition, the bill contains more precise rules on the payment of healthcare contributions than previously. This item shall be paid by the domestic person who is not insured and who is not entitled to health care under any other heading. The revision of the rules is justified by the high number of abuses. Thus, in order to avoid legal interpretation disputes or to eliminate stowaway behaviour, the bill clarifies the start of this itemary payment obligation, which may be the day after entitlement to the last medical service. Under the rules, you can't log into this system from a different date. According to the new legislation, in the event of non-payment of contributions, if the amount of the debt exceeds three times the monthly contribution, the owner would become invalid in relation to the use of the health service and would not be able to receive benefits free of charge until the debt has been settled. However, I wish to stress that these amendments do not affect, inter alia, insured people who become entitled to benefits on the basis of their employment relationship, without prejudice to those who raise children, do not affect minors or those who are entitled to health care on a social basis or who do not affect entitlement to emergency care. Misuse of healthcare also justifies the amendment to pay at least 30% of the minimum wage for insured persons in employment. In a simple figure, this means that, with a minimum wage of HUF 161 thousand, the social security contribution must not be less than HUF 48 300, i.e. the social security contribution will be at least HUF 8936. In line with this, the social contribution tax will be established, i.e. in such cases the social contribution tax will be paid at least 30% of the minimum wage. It is important to highlight in relation to this change of rule that this rule should not apply to a person who works for maternity care, such as children, children, children or nursing, or for a full-time student, student and person in vocational training. The government thus benefits children's education and part-time workers in addition to continuing full-time studies. Dear Parliament, In summary, the bill contains measures which in several cases reduce the burden of contributions, reduce tax administration and facilitate the day-to-day enforcement of the relevant market players and public bodies by means of simpler rules. That is why I ask you to support and accept the bill. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-22-148	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Here are the keynote speeches. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Sándor Kovács. There you go. You have the floor. [[14.50]]
u2019-11-22-149	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us contains significant changes compared to the contribution regulation currently in force. Thanks to the bill, a rethinking and re-regulation will take place in legislation. This is the 1997 LXXX on social security benefits and private pensions and the coverage of these services. Act No 195/1997 on the implementation of this Act. Government decree. It was necessary to amend the regulation in order to simplify the fragmented regulation in a uniform legislative system. This will ensure uniform principles for the establishment of a contribution regime. According to the bill, the 10 percent pension contribution, the 4-percent health insurance in kind, the 3 per cent financial health insurance and the 1.5 per cent labour market contributions are merged into one contribution. The new name of the contribution paid by the insured person is social security contributions, which will be introduced under that name. Its value will be 18,5 per cent, equivalent to the current individual contributions. As a result of the pooling of contributions, a significant reduction in the tax administration burden is achieved as contributions are paid to one account instead of to several accounts. On the basis of the bill, the exemption currently applies to workers employed under the Labour Code. Thus, there is no obligation to pay contributions in the case of additional work if it is carried out by a retired person, e.g. on the basis of a service relationship between civil servants, government officials, individual or social entrepreneurs. According to the bill, there is no obligation to pay a social contribution tax in the case of the employment of a pensioner with his or her own right. The bill also states that in the case of pension contributions, the current five-year limitation period applicable to both general taxes and contributions should not be applicable in certain cases, since the period of limitation of the five-year limitation period for these cases is generally up to 20-40 years between the establishment of pensions and the payment of contributions, so that the five-year limitation period is too short for these cases. The bill also reduces the amount of pension contributions payable in the case of the acquisition of the period of employment and the income constituting the pension fund and the agreement concluded solely for the purpose of obtaining the period of service, which, in line with the reduction of the social contribution tax from 19.5 per cent to 17.5 per cent from the justified 24 per cent to 22 per cent, since the pension contribution payable under the agreement is the individual contribution from the 10 per cent pension contribution and from the social contribution tax to the pension fund. Under the legislation currently in force, individual contributions are paid on the basis of different rules for individual legal relationships and activities. With a view to introducing a uniform contribution to the employment activity, the bill initiates changes, such as in respect of the service fee or tip: the uniform contribution burden on the service fee would be 18,5 per cent instead of the previous 15 per cent pension contribution; it would still not be charged with personal income tax and social contribution tax. In the case of primary producers, a single contribution rate of 18,5 per cent would be charged to the staff, which would therefore result in a 1.5 per cent increase in contributions and entitlement to labour market benefits, thus combining the 10 per cent pension and the 7 per cent health insurance contributions. For small farmers, the contribution base would be burdened by the single rate of contribution as a whole at present, with only a 10-percent pension and a 4-percent health insurance contribution in kind, which represents an increase of 4.5 per cent for this staff, while at the same time obtaining entitlement to cash and labour market benefits. According to another employment relationship, for example, in the context of an assignment: a uniform contribution of 18,5 per cent would be charged in the future to the contribution base from the employment activity. As regards individual or social entrepreneurs, the bill proposes a significant simplification by at least linking the obligation to pay contributions to the minimum wage, thus standardising the contribution base for insured individual or social entrepreneurs. Under the rules in force, individual and/or social entrepreneurs pay contributions for flat-rate income and entrepreneurial income, but they must pay contributions at least as follows: a pension contribution of 100 per cent of the current minimum wage, a health insurance and labour market contribution of 150 per cent of the minimum wage, a social contribution tax of 112.5 per cent of the minimum wage. The bill also lays down more precise rules on the payment of health services contributions. Thus, the beginning of the payment obligation referred to above is the day after entitlement to the last medical service, from another day, and the entitlement to benefits is not based on the obligation to pay contributions, but on the actual payment of the contribution. In the event of non-compliance with the contribution, the social security scheme would become invalid in relation to the use of the health care service and would not be available free of charge until such payment has been settled. Of course, these changes do not affect emergency care, to which everyone will continue to be entitled. In order to prevent abusive behaviour in an agreement to be eligible for health care, a health assessment would be mandatory at the time of conclusion of the agreement with a view to preventing the conclusion of an agreement on the treatment of existing health damage and disease. Typically, foreigners arriving here make such arrangements so that they can benefit from the Hungarian health care system. The bill introduces the minimum contribution base for employment in order to prevent further abuse and to make access to health services pay a minimum contribution. In the case of insured persons who are in employment in the new legislation, the contribution shall continue to be paid on income which is a separate and non-autonomous income derived from a consolidated fund under the Personal Income Tax Act, with the effect that the contribution may not be based on less than 30 per cent of the minimum wage. In line with this, the social contribution tax will be set, i.e. the social contribution tax will be paid at least 30% of the minimum wage in such cases. The bill initiates the broadening of the contribution base and the social contribution tax base, given that there is a significant difference between the obligation to pay contributions for a worker posted from Hungary and the payment of contributions for a domestic worker. The reason for the broadening of the contribution base is that this staff remains insured in Hungary and benefits are also used here, but the payment of personal income tax in another State is fulfilled, and therefore proportionate public burden is required, and it is important that the amount of cash benefits and the amount of pension will increase for them. Finally, the bill would also increase the amount of the family contribution allowance. It follows from the introduction of the single contribution that the family contribution allowance is not currently valid for up to 17 per cent of the labour market contribution, but for 18,5 per cent, i.e. the social security contribution, according to the new name, the enforceable amount will increase by 1.5 per cent, leaving an additional HUF 1 billion to the families raising the child. Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to support this proposal in the light of all of this. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-22-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr László György Lukács, Member of the Parliament. Here you go, notary. You have the floor. [[15.00]]
u2019-11-22-151	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to repeat the parts that were said at the beginning of the general speaking circle, in the speech by the national speaker or by our fellow Member with Fidesz, it is worth noting briefly that this is a bill arising from the summation and merger of two pieces of legislation that we have before us, and that the merger of the four types of contributions is essentially one of the main elements of it, and this will really make it easier and easier for the administration. It is also only worth mentioning at the level of a quick list that the rate of pension contributions payable, 10 per cent, the amount of the monthly health service contribution of HUF 7710, these, although listed here in the debate, will sound or appear strange to the future, but those who look at this every day, either on a weekly or monthly basis, as an entrepreneur or accountant, are very important figures or important figures, because their lives usually revolve around it, and they want to know how much they have to pay from month to month, or what burdens are expected for a business, or what numbers the accountant may have to account for. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] What is more interesting, and I would like to turn to the critical remarks that came up in my reading of the bill itself, that the legislation is experimenting with relatively new things and new terminology, but we are far from having the old light of social security contributions as contributions to social security as a contribution to social security, as paid in the old nostalgia. I believe that, after the change of regime, social security itself has been thoroughly eroded as a word, as a form of social care, as well as the use of the word itself, and that it would be necessary to recover someone from it, so that if someone says that I am paying for my social security, it can be again with something better or more positive content. Perhaps the reduction of administration and transparency, so the merging of the different types of contributions in this direction can go a little further, perhaps everyone can understand a little better, even if they are not familiar with the distinction between types of contributions, but can better understand why they are deducted from their wages and income for the work done, and for what purpose they are used. Perhaps the very abstract idea between social security provision and paid contributions will come closer, and the reduction of these two and bringing them closer in people's minds might also be necessary, because then everyone would understand what to pay the contributions and what they will get in return. If we continue with this logic, the idea of a proportionality in people's minds about what kind of service they receive for their contributions, then we also need to talk about a very old deficiency, and this is the question of individual accounts, which many people say to individual accounts, but it is a question of some kind of traceability. This could be very important not only from the point of view of the pension, but also from the point of view of health care, because in a very large part, people cannot assess not only the volume of it, but also the costs of the services they use in the hospital. Very few people think that it is very modern and very often used today, let's say, what the cost of a diagnostic procedure really is, if you have to buy it on the market or even what the state is financing for the institution. That is why it would be important to have and have the possibility for people, workers, to be able to keep track of the amount of each of their contributions or the amount paid by them, how much security it gives, because this is the key behind it, how much security it gives for the future, whether from the point of view of pension provision or health care, because as a beautiful Hungarian word in social security, it is also the word "safe" itself, and therefore it is a social security, not an illusion, because it would create a real experience for people. This is why individual accounts are always at the centre of interest, because there is a discourse about them, because people would like to see everything they pay for, whether it is a high or a low amount, and here we can argue that Hungarian withdrawal is low or high, but people can understand any form of withdrawal if they see what they get in return. For example, private pensions were, on some level, more transparent or manageable, because one actually saw what was going on and what was going on with the amount of money he was paying. So as a health politician, I can tell you that it would be really important to introduce individual accounts as soon as possible, precisely because it would give information, an awareness to future patients, but otherwise it would be possible for workers, even portable and groupable, to take with it. I know that the economic profession, the health economy and other workshops are thinking about how to make the funding of health care within social security personal, not groupable to care, but personally, transferred to certain areas, so that it is very simple to say: how to get the money to follow the patient, not going to an institution, but following the patient, and taking the patient's money to the institution where he can use that care, that service in a good quality, effectively, and then the funding does not go bulky to an institution, for example, in health care, but to those institutions, medical teams or classes that can perform their work in a good quality, efficient and adequate manner. This, and this is obviously not the narrow debate of this bill, in a broad sense, must also be answered by the Social Security Act, how it will be backed up by a system that can be followed, transparent and portable, so it really is the most efficient system that can be used. In the problem of the fundingability of the care system, I have noted to myself that the sharing of contributions, which goes into the E Fund and which to the pension fund, where the percentage goes, is essentially irrelevant, for example, from the E Fund's point of view, because a very large part of our healthcare is no longer financed from the amounts received from this contribution, but mainly from tax revenues. This is a matter of planning, and this raises a security issue: how well the budget can be planned and how well the safety of healthcare can be planned by talking about a relatively difficult tax revenue instead of a well-designed contribution, and always by tax and tax revenues to replace the part of the budget for health care. So this will certainly be a future question as to where to find it, or where to find it, the E Fund or the part of the E Fund that feeds on the contributions, because, as we can see, the source of those received now is not, compared to the others, slightly small, but significantly smaller, and slowly losing weight. It is an important question that, in terms of planning, everything we can talk about tax and contribution reductions and tax cuts here is mainly related to what the government is planning to do in this area, which concerns economic recovery and economic protection, whether it will help Hungary during the crisis, because it is becoming more and more obvious, because more and more people are saying now, and it has also appeared in government communication, so it should probably be taken seriously; that it will, for example, create a situation in which the current bill will reduce or protect the Hungarian economy's exposure in some way, because many believe that these will be the focal points of the next global economic crisis, these are the so-called trade-wars, which will take place between different large companies or certain states; this bill will help, for example, in an unexpected case that the economic wars, China, the United States and some major companies have wares, which will be the focus of the next global economic crisis, such as the so-called trade-wars, which will take place between different major companies or some states; this bill will help the Hungarian economy to keep the Hungarian economy, for example, and not to keep it in a straight. After all, what we can see is that in this case, and here, far be it from me, that I would like a higher contribution, a higher tax, but we can see that an increasingly downward tax, or contribution, in a future situation prognosticated, say, in the event of the loss of more workers, can punch an even more exponentially larger hole in the income side of the economy or on the revenue side of the budget, so I think we need to rethink these. [[15.10]] We understand the government's ambitions, obviously the tax reduction and the reduction of contributions are eligible, and there is no need for any tax increase. However, I say on the other side, for example, I do not see the guarantees aimed at establishing long-term security for pensioners or even the security of the financing of health care. Reducing administration is very important, and it is also a very good way for stowaways, perhaps one of the biggest problems of health care, to reduce the possibilities or number of stowaways. It should be added that it is very difficult here to judge the stowaway circle in a way and correctly that our fellow countrymen who may work abroad are looking for their daily meals abroad, but they plan to provide them in Hungarian health care, but they are actually bringing them home to Hungary, so if there is a problem, then, if you like, they are actually here and not at their temporary station, at their workplace abroad, how they can not be blamed for the current tightening up. This will have to be resolved somehow, because a lot of Hungarians working abroad can act as if they could become stowaways and fall out of care without notice. This will usually be a sign of the farm number with different colour codes, but according to the current law, if I interpret it correctly, it will not be the number one prohibition rule for them, but they will virtually lose their farmhouse number in such a case. So, basically, by the time they get there, I'm gonna want to use a non-existent land number. So the goal is good, stowaways cause large and measurable damage to the budget, hospitals and health care providers, most of which are also in hospital debt, and this should be reduced. However, it is important to pay attention to Hungary's special situation that it is significant from foreign work, living abroad, not to say that it is a fellow countryman living in immigration, but living abroad and working abroad, who can suffer a great deal of damage from being identified as stowaways by the system, even though their original intention was never. Thus, in stowaway status, one always assumes that there is a willfulness behind it to use the system as stowaways; they may come into this status not out of frivolity, but out of compulsion. So, overall, I can tell you, fellow Members, that everything that is reduced by administration, everything that is reduced by contributions, is, of course, eligible. However, we need to be very careful about the direction we are taking in the coming difficult times. A longer term objective should also be taken into account, such as the sustainability of the health register, the sustainability of the health service, and I think it would be a great answer to that, that both pension and healthcare payments, which we make with contributions, should be made in an accountable, visible domain, i.e. in an individual account. That's what I wanted to tell you. Thank you so much for listening.
u2019-11-22-152	Thank you, Congressman. I, too, welcome once again my fellow Members. I now give the floor to Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2019-11-22-153	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I think that on the bill before us, on the one hand, the Secretary of State and, on the other hand, our fellow Member, Sándor Kovács, spoke very much about precise and technical changes. I would group it around two themes, or I would like to highlight two parts that are important to me from this bill or which I would like to talk about. One is that I think that all efforts, legislative proposals and government intentions should be supported, which in some way simplifies the lives and administration of businesses or citizens. So this is part of it. For example, merging individual contributions and reducing administration on several occasions is, I think, on the one hand, increasing competitiveness. I would refer here to Mr Lukács, although there was an economic protection action plan in the summer, and now we know, on the basis of the government's announcement, that there will be a second economic protection action plan in the first quarter of next year, obviously many small decisions, such as the amendment of the contribution laws, often as a small economic protection proposal or the tail of major action plans, will help the country's competitiveness and competitiveness. So the first topic or thank you to the government is that, Mr State Secretary, we do not only love but also look forward to these proposals, and this citizens' need arises in several places, that we are constantly trying to reduce the administration of businesses and the bureaucratic burden on people step by step. Obviously, this cannot be achieved by cutting red tape across all areas, but must be done step by step. Here the reduction of administrative burdens for businesses is a very, very positive step for me, a change, and it is in this direction that we must always go forward and take the next steps in the future. So I'm talking about the 18,5 percent single social security contribution, the pooling of contributions, the fixing of this rate. I think that this can be followed precisely, that people will be able to control their own salaries, contributions and taxes in a transparent way. We often face the fact that a payment card contains items that citizens do not always understand, they do not always know where to turn, where to go exactly, so the simplification of this is to be welcomed. This is linked to family tax incentives and family benefits. In 2010, we adopted the introduction of the family tax system, the family tax system. I think that was a very, very good move. This is also confirmed by the fact that almost 98 percent of the right holders use the family tax allowance, so the number of users who are otherwise entitled to it is incredibly high. It should also be pointed out that now that a further one and a half percent of the contributions will be eligible for family tax relief, for example, this could be HUF 4,000 per month for two parents earning minimum wage. This decision will leave a billion forints for the families, another one billion forints for the family tax relief. So I think that right here at the previous item on the agenda we were talking about social inequality and poverty, precisely for those with lower incomes, this will be a huge help, that, by the way, it will mean 40-50 thousand forints per year for them in the case of an average, say, three-child family, if both parents earn minimum wage. My fellow Members have already talked about the 10-percent pension contribution. One step has not been taken here, the contribution to church persons has been paid. We also welcome the 10-percent pension contribution to church service and ecclesiastical service. I think that this also expresses in their direction the appreciation of society and the work they are doing, the social thanks or appreciation in this respect. It's the right thing to do. One first step is therefore cutting red tape, and the second step is reducing contributions and helping workers and families, and helping different age groups or social groups. Such are pensioners, for example, as the proposal suggests that all forms of work alongside pensions should be exempt, which, I think, is also a welcome step. Quite rightly, my better fellow Member referred to it, and I fully agree that in the health care sector, the screening of stowaways and the tightening of the health system are, in any case, something that is welcome to many citizens, otherwise paying for their social security with honor, of some kind of ease and advantage. After all, either in the lineup or in the waiting period or in the flotch care, there must be a clear advantage for those who pay the necessary contributions regularly and honestly. So, in all cases, tightening up is justified and I think it is necessary. The various changes in the rules of contributions to primary producers, small producers or even tips and service fees have already been mentioned by my fellow Members. We agree with these amendments, as we agree with the entire bill. I mean, I think that whether we are talking about reducing contributions, whether we are talking about cutting red tape, both are steps that are a very important step, not a first step anymore, but I am asking the Secretary of State not to be the last step in this line, but to continue this because of Hungarian workers, because of Hungarian families and in order to reduce the administrative burden on Hungarian companies. KDNP supports the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]] [[15.20]]
u2019-11-22-154	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Lajos Korózs, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2019-11-22-155	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Speaking here with my neighbour about the presentation of the agenda, I noted that my political career as a whole can be described by the complete transformation of the social security subsystem from the beginning to the end. After all, when the Hungarian Parliament was a six-party parliament after the change of regime, there was consensus and agreement that the two branches of social security had to be provided with autonomy, so that it would become a local government, and I would even go on, and we provided property from the former trade union assets, and here we had a law on it within the walls of Parliament. In addition to self-government, he also had an independent audit body for social security, pension and health care. Compared to this, he has undergone quite a transformation. Now I see there's no point in using that term as social security. This has become a chapter of the budget, and a chapter of the budget law leads me to believe that the supply system has been completely fictitious and that social security has ceased to be incorporated into the Treasury; the pension board has, if I may say, degraded to the level of a department of ministry. I find it more trouble that the best of the expert apparatus have left the profession, and unfortunately, the system works with quite a lot of problems and terrible deadlines, as my information is about. That's one thing. The other thing I would like to anticipate is that with the measures that are coming from the practical side of the IT development side, which the Secretary of State has also said, I can agree with that farthest. I hope that the digitalisation of the public administration, the IT systems, can come together and become more precise, and I hope that in these two areas, in the area of pension insurance and health insurance, they will be able to convert this digital knowledge as much as possible. Relating to the contents: the Act completely rewrites the 1997 XXX on social security benefits and private pensions, and on the coverage of these services. Law. The law contains the same thing almost word for word in the section on its purpose and principles, but it is true that self-care and the connection to the private pension system have been left out of the new law. Those who used to be Members of Parliament know that I was not such a crazy believer in the introduction of a private pension fund system, but when it was introduced, it was desirable for me to have the banner to have an individual account there, because it is a funded system. And the funded system itself requires that it be possible to follow from month to month where the contributions paid are just where they are, how the investments have returned, and the rest, and the rest, and the rest. I'm so sorry this whole thing ended so badly. Today, as far as I know, there are about 60-61 thousand members of private pension funds. Please, there is an individual account, there you can follow how much money has been made, how much is the return, et cetera, et cetera. What they've been talking about for years, György Matolcsy blackmailed the members of the private pension fund, and he said that the person who stays in the private pension fund will not get a state pension because, let's be clear, it was a blackmail! It's true that they backed out of it later. When I said on a public show that day or the next day that it was okay, I'd take out my phone, order my plane ticket, and go to Strasbourg, because I'm sure I'll sue them out of their pants, and then they'd back off. I'm not sure it's because I threatened them with Strasbourg, but in any case, they said that there would still be a public pension for whoever stayed in the private pension fund. Only at that time, 106,000 of us thought we were gonna stay, and all the others backed out. Please, there was an individual account. What you have promised here is that there will be an individual invoice, but not only will there be an individual invoice that can be traced, but it will also be inherited, remember, fellow Members, nothing of this has ever been implemented, because what you refer to as an individual invoice is a registration system. But we know that now. When a person is born, they get a farm number, they have a birth certificate, their records are recorded, if they have a contribution, they are introduced, and that's it. There's nothing evil about this, it's a record system. If we go through the concepts, as they were inserted in alphabets, but they also include a new definition of the duration of the study student, the student, and the period during which the studies were suspended. At the same time, it is a fundamental change that the list of insured persons begins with the fact that the insured person does not qualify as a non-ancillary person, et cetera, et cetera, I do not continue, and everyone is included in the list. Among the concepts, they define who is considered to be an additional activity. I'm opening a parentheses: it's about the pensioners who count for the 6th. In some of the legal relationships listed in paragraph 1 of this Article, they are engaged in an activity of employment. The question arises, at least in my mind, how they will be assured. In addition, persons with supplementary activities are excluded from the category of persons entitled to an accident benefit. Interesting is the statement that the new legislation now fully exempts the work of self-employed persons from insurance and the payment of contributions. I have to open parentheses again. In the absence of this, it would result in an insurance obligation or a contribution, and in fact, the insurance of working pensioners is not entirely correct. A little slip-up, and I'm gonna have to remember that. Among the listings, they forgot the Independent Police Complaints Board, but we heard from the news that this was practically abolished a good week ago, because it was written out of the existing institutions with another bill. The weird logic remains that there are insured people who are normally entitled to health benefits, and there are those who are not considered insured, but who at least become entitled to accident care or health care under the law. My fellow Member, Kovács, has just referred to this. However, there is no explanation why the new law retains this logic, because it does not split up by working or not, and the pensioner, the child teacher, can also work in addition to the care given. For example, why is it possible that a member of a pensioner's cooperative of general interest is insured but that the public service worker is not insured? Or that the person receiving the job search allowance is insured, but in the chat, in the lawn and the others, there are still forms of supply that are not? Or why can the spouse of the President of the Republic, who is not a pensioner under his or her own right, be a separate point among the insured persons for the time for which his or her insurance is suspended or does not have any other insurance-related legal relationship, while the ordinary pensioner is listed as the only person entitled to health care? In the first place, how can someone with a break in insurance be insured? By the way, the provision relating to the relative of the President of the Republic has already been included in the Act, only it has been booked elsewhere. In the list of health care recipients, the law retains the illogical order that is in force. It is not clear why there is a special point for the child and why there is another point for the benefit of the weed, the lawn, the nursing allowance and the elderly. At least they could've combed that up, in my opinion. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I do not want to mention how the percentages will be converted and what percentage of the funds will be given, as Mr Secretary of State has detailed these, and I think that is understandable to everyone. However, there is one other thing I would like to mention, and this is the contribution income. For the sake of transparency, this was regulated in a separate paragraph. [[15.30]] It is not clear to me here that the level determined for the basic wage, the average earnings in July of at least the previous year, applies to whom and how. In particular, the explanatory memorandum points out that Article 6 (1) (a) (ii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) §, I think, in the case of an insurance contract within the meaning of point 1 (a), social security contributions must be paid at least 30 per cent of the minimum wage, so that exemption from this obligation is possible only in the individual cases listed as taxative in the bill. The regulation of the family contribution allowance will be so much more favourable that the current labour market contribution will be covered by this one-and-a-half-percent contribution, as the Secretary of State pointed out. In line with previous legislation, it is still possible to enter into an agreement on social security benefits, which has also been referred to as 22 percent compared to 24 percent. They point out that there is a health check to be carried out here if someone wants to buy this service. The question to me, of course, is how many people and who are affected by this. Studying the closing accounting law here last month, I came to the conclusion that this could affect a few hundred people, since in the E-Fund the contribution of the payers under the agreement, I remember it to be HUF 285.4 million in connection with the closing accounting law. One of the important amendments to the pension law is the repeal of Article 83/B. § 5a, which means the abolition of the threshold for early retirement pensions. I am glad that those who received pre-age benefits, service allowances, annuities to dance arts and temporary mining benefits remain, while we remember that the miners had been allowed a few years ago to derogate from the rules of that period and to derogate from individual consideration, the director-general of pension insurance could grant a waiver from the application of the legal limit. Here in the new regulation, only the women who are saved by 40 will have the opportunity to enforce it. Fellow Members! I would like to point out that, although I see a lot of problems in the administration system, I must note that the registration system has been quite good in the Hungarian social security system for the last three decades, but we now have doubts about it. I am afraid that the contributions now paid on a pipe which, by the way, are already largely losing their character as a contribution because they are being collected as a tax and also act as taxes in addition to the registration of the service period will not be transparent and will not be able to be reflected in the establishment of initial pensions or in the adoption of a decision. Finally, I would like to say two unscrupulous sentences that the stowaways want to be filtered out of the system. I can welcome this far away, but at the same time, Mr Secretary of State, I note that it does not belong closely here, but I consider the so-called Ukrainian invasion on our northeast border to be a stowaway. I was not informed by hearing, not by newspaper articles, I saw with my two eyes, I visited several settlements there, I spoke to several mayors, general doctors and postmasters: in a crowd of villages, they show the properties of Ukrainian houses. Do not be mistaken, I am not talking about Hungarians across the border, but about those who are using the shortcomings of the Hungarian care system or using our control system on Hungarian social security and Hungarian society. So they're not just here for a pension, they're here for hundreds and thousands now, they're coming for job search support, maternity care, health care. Everyone knows that people in Kisvárdán live from practically employing them as Russian interpreters in hospitals, but clients who don't speak a word in Hungarian, their Hungarian ancestors have never been in life, they're not Hungarian citizens, yet they use healthcare. I spoke to a mayor who offered a young Ukrainian job in his settlement, and he rejected it because he said that he had just taken care of his job search support in Városnámény, and that he was working black in Slovakia. All benefits are taken into account in Hungary. I'm just saying, I'm only talking about this because this is something that needs to be dealt with, and it's not a matter covered by this law. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-11-22-156	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Tamás Mellár, the lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue.
u2019-11-22-157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I try to be very short, I can do this all the more, because the speakers before me have said a lot of things and I do not wish to repeat them. There is a very important element of this entire bill, a bill, which is of a decisive nature, a matter of principle, and which I cannot agree with at all. Let me start from a distance, apparently. I am one of the few who welcomed Fidesz' decision to abolish private pension funds here at the end of 2010 or early 2011. I thought that at the time, because this funded system, and the fact that such foreign financial firms come in here and collect pension contributions in a quasi-monopolistic situation, was extremely bad, it was wrong, it gave rise to serious abuses. At the time, I expected and believed that the termination would result in a nationalisation, and that this $3,000 billion private pension fund would be added to the public pension system, and that what you promised was that a nominal individual account system would be set up and these payments would be credited there. I would have welcomed this very much, complemented by the fact that this should have been done in the health system. So I fully agree with my colleague, Mr László György Lukács, that this would indeed have been necessary to have a nominal individual account for both pension payments and health payments, so that it is clear to individuals what they are paying for, and accordingly, a pension or a benefit system could have been established that reflected in some way and in some way on these payments. In fact, social security and social equity could have been maintained, as a country-wide community of risks could have developed, but at the same time the interest would have been created, because it would have been a clear and obvious message for the people that the bigger my pension bill and my health account, the safer I am, the more I can count on me to receive adequate care. Now, compared to this, this second part did not happen at all, the private pension funds have disappeared on their hairs, they are somewhere, and the individual account system has not been set up at all. And this current measure, which seems to reduce the administrative burden and take care of the stowaway problem, so to be like this, instead of four, there is only one contribution, there are various benefits, it seems to be a step forward, although, in my view, it is an explicit step backwards. As my colleague Lajos Korózs mentioned, the relationship that could be created between the contribution and the benefit is becoming more and more lost, and now only logically, because due to the legal provisions, it is collected as a tax, so there is no such arrangement in the whole system. So, in fact, this will end in its entirety, although it is included in the bill itself that it will be collected in a uniform manner, and then it will be dismantled at a rate of 54 per cent and 37 per cent. But who can verify that? How's that gonna look? It would be much clearer and more obvious if every citizen on a quarterly or semi-annual basis were to receive an invoice stating that his pension account and his health account are in fact what it looks like, what it is, what it is, what the balance is for him. [[15.40]] So while we've always thought that pensions have a pension, but they don't, the government is now taking a measure that can't even be determined what it would be. Don't get me wrong, I'm not asking the individual account system for what we've paid back with interest. Obviously, this can never be done, since there are social classes that cannot collect such an account, so there must be some social element in it, but we could have created that the person who pays twice as much and then pays pension contributions will receive twice as much in his retirement age. Exactly how much, there are appropriate procedures for this, whether the Swedish point model or the German model, where there is a calculated interest rate. So it should not have been reinvented, it should not have been reinvented, it should only have been determined and determined to develop such a system. This, I think, would have affected the system itself, by its very nature, in the direction that people should not be stowaways, in order to have an interest in raising as much as possible in both their accounts. Obviously, this would have been good for the state, since the state would have been able to look at this whole system well. Unfortunately, we are now going through a nationalisation, in which it will really depend on the grace of the government that is currently in existence, on how much of the taxes collected will be spent on pensions and health care. Let's not have any doubts. From what we've seen so far, we certainly do not have close compliance at all. Consequently, I cannot support this proposal on behalf of the Dialogue fraction. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-11-22-158	Thank you, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the bill. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I'm giving Mr Norbert Izer the chance to reciprocate.
u2019-11-22-159	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll try to keep the answer short. Firstly, I thank you very much for the constructive contributions from both pro-government and opposition sides, and I feel that we have received critical comments that we can receive and look at these technical clarifications. I also thank Mr Sándor Kovács for his contribution. I understood from the feedback of Mr László György Lukács that we basically agree on the draft law. It has also been said in several cases, from the point of view of Congressman Mellar, that it is also a question of an individual invoice. I think we may be thinking a little more about this legislative proposal again than this legislative proposal is supposed to handle. We didn't do a systemic transformation of the entire social security system this time. Technically, the existing system was transformed years ago, I think. Now the pension system is a income-related system. This is what the public pension system can provide, while the cash-flow system is proportionate. So a logical transformation of this proposal has now been requested, which is not the scope of this law. This law has now put the methodology for collecting contributions on a completely new basis and has tried to standardise and streamline this system. On the question of Congressman Luke, it was also considered that this would possibly protect economic results, which has such an impact. I think it is not the task of this package to keep the results of the economy. As has been said by Congressman Nacsa, this will be answered in the second phase of the Economic Protection Action Plan. At the beginning of next year, we will try to meet all the challenges in this respect. It was also raised in the matter of Congressman Luke that he would be covered in the long term. I think that Hungarian fiscal policy is also pointing to the increasing stability of the budget. Obviously, you can see that the budget intends to create ever-increasing reserves just so that we may be able to prepare for unexpected events. I think that this is precisely what fiscal policy has in mind, that we are trying to be more flexible in responding to the increasingly hectic challenges. So I think that with regard to budgetary coverage, what we can see, I can look forward to the medium term and see no problem. With regard to reducing stowaway behaviour, I also feel that it is broadly unanimous that it is worth supporting this and reducing stowaway use. I think that we are trying to take very strong steps in this, and if there is any proposal to amend it to anyone, we will be happy to examine it. For example, it has to be noted that for workers abroad, it has also occurred that, where appropriate, they will be in a situation where they do not pay contributions without their own fault. It is an EU, international tax charter that you have to pay taxes and contributions where you work for a given person. So I would say that the exception is that there is a possibility of staying in the Hungarian system for a transitional period. It is possible to stay in the Hungarian system with individual solutions, individual agreements, but normally, if someone works in Germany, they pay the German sja, they pay the German contribution, and they have to go to the German dentist. This is what a lot of people use by not paying contributions for virtually years, and when the pain starts, they logged into the Hungarian system a week before. I think it is not the purpose of the majority society to keep this type of abuse in the system. I believe that I am confident that we will be able to give positive answers to how we can reduce the administration of entrepreneurs in the near future. One of the amendments is obviously the current bill, but I think we will continue to try to comply with this request in the future. One of our strong intentions is for the tax authorities to take over the majority of businesses' tax returns from businesses and to use their energies to generate added value. The other is that we are also trying to reduce the number of taxes. Sixty taxes are registered in the profession, and in some comparisons it can be less, but we would like to keep two thirds of this in the medium term. About 40 taxes, we think, are sufficient, because otherwise the tax is very concentrated, and it is clear that the vast majority of tax revenues are derived from VAT and contributions. So we think that the smaller tax types, precisely because the Hungarian tax system is more streamlined and easier to use, may not be necessary in the future. On the subject of Mr Korózs, let me also thank you for the constructive technical comments. I think we're gonna take a look at these. Here too, let me refer to the fact that, as Mr Melár said, it is clearly defined in the law, which fund receives the percentage of the payments. So there is no substantial structural change in the system of contributions, and the usual system of contributions and benefits remains. Laughing at which fund receives the percentage of the deposits. I think the most important goal is that if we impose four different taxes on the same basis, we try to merge this into a pregnancy, because it has a much stronger impact, and then the Treasury and the tax administration know very well, in a manageable and traceable way, these funds will be paid by the right Ny. Basics, E. Fund or Employment Fund. So we think that this does not undermine the knowledge that the individual might want to know about money. We also received positive feedback on the employment of pensioners to support the proposal. I would just like to confirm that since we have been able to create a favourable tax rate for pensioners in the context of employment, about 40,000 more pensioners are employed, and we think that this figure may double. So we are thinking of 36-40,000 pensioners who will be able to enter into this preferential scheme, as so many already have contracts with a pension. We think that the number of these can even increase, so more and more people may imagine that they are still taking up work with a pension. One last thought, because it was also in a comment that it was systemic, that it was losing its character. I'd like to stress that you're not losing your responsibilities. I think that the proposals that I don't know about the transformation of the system a few years ago are not current, so we're not planning a systemic transformation right now. Technically, we are trying to make this contribution system easier to manage and collect and pay. I would also like to stress that in the currently available pension account, which you have mentioned, everything is traceable, all payments are traceable, you can see what income the individual has, what hours, what income he was declared. [[15.50]] And by the way, if we are allowed to point out what plans we have in the near future, we would also like to make this even more user-friendly, even through a mobile app, in the future, so that the individual can find out in real time what time his employer announced it, he even announced it. I think that these feedback is such a common direction. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-22-160	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. The 2017 LIII on the prevention and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing follows. General debate on the amendment of law and of certain related laws until closure. The government referral is T/8028. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Gábor Gion, Minister of State of the Ministry of Finance, author of the item on the agenda.
u2019-11-22-161	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, Major cases of money laundering that have become known in recent years have been Danske Bank, Sweden, Nordea, partly Deutsche Bank, and I could refer to emerging new money laundering trends and also to shortcomings in existing anti-money laundering rules and practices. Furthermore, investigations into recent terrorist attacks have shown that terrorist groups' financing methods have also developed and are developing. As a result, it has become clear that further measures are needed to ensure greater transparency and control of financial operations, companies and other legal entities, as well as trust trustees. Money laundering and terrorist financing are also a cross-border, complex act, and individual action by individual countries can and will have limited results, which has been recognised by the legislators. For this reason, action against money laundering and terrorist financing is based on generally accepted international standards: domestic legislation is also based on recommendations adopted by the relevant International Standards Organisation, the Financial Action Task Force or the Financial Action Task Force, and the European Union's system of rules, anti-money laundering directives. The draft law presented now serves a twofold purpose: on the one hand, it raises the preparedness of domestic legislation on the basis of the existing EU directives and makes further amendments to improve the efficiency and operational quality of the system, which, based on the experience gained so far in Hungary, we see that there is a need. These new trends and new expectations have justified the European Union's anti-money laundering regulation, called the 4th Anti-money laundering Directive in 2008 a review of the situation. Following discussion of the Commission's proposal, EU legislators adopted the EU's 5th anti-money laundering directive in June 2018. Directive 5 has tightened the provisions of Directive 4 on several points, set new obligations for the Member States and has also followed the technical progress that has been made in the meantime. I would like to list some of the main areas in which Directive 5 concerns the fight against money laundering. On the one hand, it regulates the conversion services between virtual and legal tender and tightens the provisions on electronic means of payment. It also sets out a uniform set of measures against clients established in non-cooperating or high-risk third countries. In order to facilitate coordinated action at EU level and information flows, it provides for closer cooperation between the relevant authorities in the Member States. The obligations regarding actual ownership and a central actual ownership database have been clarified in order to increase transparency. The actual owners of a legal person, trust or non-profit-making entity established in each Member State registered in the central actual ownership database shall be registered in accordance with the definition of the beneficial owner. Actual ownership data shall be made available to competent authorities, obliged entities subject to anti-money laundering legislation. The data may be requested by third parties to provide information if they are justified in their legitimate interest. It is also necessary to establish a central bank account register and a central safe register on the basis of Directive 5; in other words, a central register or a central electronic data recovery system to identify in good time natural or legal persons managed by credit institutions, having or controlling a payment account or bank account or a safe, thereby helping to prevent money laundering or terrorist financing. The provisions in accordance with Directive 5 shall be transposed into national legislation by the EU Member States by 10 January 2020 at the latest. Many Member States have already done so, and like others, it is now being transposed. The primary objective of this bill is therefore to ensure timely transposition of the amendments introduced by Directive 5. To this end, the government proposes to amend the law on the prevention and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, as well as certain related additional laws. The bill also amends the legislative provisions for which the Commission's detailed legal examination considered that they did not transpose the provisions of the previous Directive with the necessary precision. When transposing EU provisions, practical solutions from other Member States were taken into account in order to ensure that the adoption of European rules does not result in more stringent application of the law than is necessary and more stringent than our competitors, so that the transposition of the Directive was taken into account in order to preserve the competitiveness of the domestic financial and other sectors concerned. Dear Parliament, In addition to fulfilling EU standards, the submission takes into account the domestic experience of the period since the entry into force of our anti-money laundering law on 26 June 2017. These amendments include elements that clarify the risk-based approach and provide practical guidance to service providers in the area of customer identification, the identification of risk levels and the monitoring of business relationships. These changes are expected to simplify the management of low-risk transactions affecting the population's mass. At the same time, it is also possible for authorities and service providers to focus their resources specifically on higher money laundering risk transactions. Dear House, Hungary will significantly improve the effectiveness, transparency and functionality of its domestic anti-money laundering and terrorist financing system by means of the legislative amendments proposed. This will also provide strong legal and practical protection for the Hungarian economy and the domestic financial sector, so that it is less attractive to foreign circles interested in laundering money from crime and financing terrorist activity. The bill therefore contributes to the protection of the domestic financial system, to the laundering of money from the crime and to financial attempts to support terrorist organisations. In addition, it fulfils its obligations in the European Union and internationally, thereby supporting Hungary's commitment to combating money laundering and terrorist financing and reducing the international attackability of the domestic anti-money laundering system in international fora. Modern regulation and its effective implementation will continue to serve to prevent, or at least make it difficult for criminals to clean up economic crimes and their returns, thus protecting not only our financial and economic system but also the whole of an honest society more than ever. So please support and accept the bill submitted. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-22-162	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Péter Ovádi, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. [[16.00]]
u2019-11-22-163	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The government has always been committed to combating money laundering and terrorist financing and has consistently sought to whiten the economy. This current draft law, which was submitted by the Government on 12 November, fits well with the system of measures previously taken to this end. The truth is that, following the financial crisis in 2008, efforts to curb income and wealth from crime have been strengthened worldwide, including in the European Union, and to strengthen measures that make it more difficult to wash them clean. Furthermore, terrorist attacks over the past period, as well as the outbreak of money laundering and tax fraud scandals, such as Panama Papers, have highlighted emerging new trends in how terrorist groups finance their operations. These public policy objectives and expectations have been justified by the European Parliament and the European Council's Resolution 2015/849 on the prevention of the use of financial systems for money laundering or terrorist financing. This Directive is addressed to the Member States. a revision of the directive. In addition, it was necessary to transpose the so-called EU Money Laundering Directive V into the Hungarian legal system. Following a proposal from the European Commission, the European Parliament and the Council (2018/83). Directive V of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 June 2018 on the prevention of the use of financial systems for the purpose of money laundering or terrorist financing was published on 19 June 2018. I would like to highlight the following of the amendments to the EU's Money Laundering Directive V. A central database shall be established and operated to keep records of the actual owners of customers. Such records shall be made available to competent authorities and obliged entities. In addition, a central register or a central electronic data recovery system should be established to enable the timely identification of natural or legal persons holding, or controlling, a payment account or bank account managed by credit institutions in the territory of that Member State. There is also a stricter regulation for virtual and legal currency conversion services, as it sets lower thresholds for the use of electronic means of payment than before. Moreover, the legislator also applies the law to companies trading in art worth more than HUF 3 million. As I have already mentioned, the draft law also provides for the prevention of the use of money laundering or terrorist financing by 2015/849. CHAPTER IV the revision of the directive. In particular, it should be borne in mind that the legislative clauses for which the Commission's detailed legal examination considered that they were not transposed with the necessary precision in the previous Article IV. The provisions of this Directive are laid down in this Directive. For example, important public tasks should also be considered to be those whose public functions ceased at least a year ago. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the creation of a new law will make a major contribution to the protection of the financial system against attempts to launder the proceeds of crime and to provide financial support to terrorist organisations, which is why I would ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of this motion. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-22-164	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Andrea Varga-Damm, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2019-11-22-165	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, EU Council and Parliament 2018/843 on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing The Hungarian adaptation of the directive is taking place with this bill. This Directive set out the need for Member States to establish by 10 January 2020 legislation based on this Directive. Of course, we agree with all such directives and their implementation, because there is no doubt that terrorism and terrorist crime can actually appear in any system in any country due to global world developments at any time. Extremely effective measures must be taken against him. This can be seen as a challenge for the global world, and the funding of war and terrorist-controlled focal points is also highly likely to take place through civilised countries. But since the whole package of legislation is based on a directive, I do not want to deal with the details of it. Especially because the Secretary of State and my fellow Member with Fidesz spoke about the details. I would like to say that I think that the limit of 300,000 forints is now extremely ridiculous and I think it is low. Given that... [[Lajos Korózs: 500!]] Excuse me? [[Lajos Korózs: Isn't it 500?]] No, there are still limits between 300,000 and 3 million, so there are a lot of lots. The point is that, since average wages are supposed to increase year after year, I think that a limit corresponding to an average wage, as a controlled amount, is unnecessary because it is unthinkable that serious money would be used at any time to finance terrorism or money laundering or money laundering activities, but this was just a catchphrase. The biggest problem with these rules is that at the level of the rules, it is all living and, in practice, we are experiencing something completely different. Not only Hungary, but the European Union and the developed countries of the world's legislation have these rules planted in vain, yet offshoreisation is raging, and the kind of global tax avoidance and tax optimization practice that poisons the world's economy, and that is why these rules only apply to people living on simple wages, because large companies everywhere in the world find those loopholes, regular legal loopholes that can make economic life difficult and actually help create budget deficits. I just want to give you some examples. In 2016, President Obama, in particular Panama, announced a certain war to prevent tax evasion, given that, by the way, offshore operations are legal everywhere in the world, but he himself said that this is so insidious that by exploiting offshore companies, tax optimizations, large companies in the world are making huge profits, otherwise even medium-sized companies, and this is not sustainable. Of course, the next US President has stopped pushing for this because the current US President is world champion in offshore operations with his companies, so this trend or intention is now at a standstill in the United States. We hope that next time there will be a president who will continue President Obama's intentions, but he has shown, for example, that in the last years of his presidency, the US budget has been lost 10 billion dollars a year only because of this, and that may not have been properly appreciated. In Hungary, as a result of offshore operations, the loss of budget revenue of at least HUF 100 billion per year. These issues need to be raised when new directives and new legislation are adopted on these issues, and we see that tax avoidance through offshoreisation is not reduced globally and in Hungary at all, and thus the country's fiscal revenue is not at an adequate level, even if it is not included in the planning anyway. But if you will allow me, if we are talking about this issue here, and it is never a problem if we do have a historical perspective, just because we are 30 years after the change of regime, and I have to say that 30 years have passed, for example, the roots of the Hungarian offshore are the roots of the socialist system, and in 2017, we got a pretty big insight into this issue. Zsuzsanna Borvendég, researcher of the Historical Archives of the State Security Services, published a book in 2017 on the fact that the socialist system had a whole network of companies to hide the money stolen from the state. From the Hungarian state, the Hungarian socialist state. That's right. The knowledge of the leaders of the socialist large companies states that the book had already argued with any of the capitalists in the 1970s about the activities of the stromantic and offshore companies. [[16.10]] Many times in the past year and a half, it has been suggested by me in this House why there are those who maintain the socialist system, still in very serious positions, the last example, where he became Vice-President of the MNB. I always rush out that there is simply no such thing as the fact that the last 30 years have not been able to produce professionals who were not the maintainers of the socialist system. Because every government, no government has been able to spare them for the last 30 years, these socialist system maintainers, because they have had such amazing practices in manipulation and, for example, in offshore and disappearing money, that none of the governments wanted to lose this knowledge. But I'd like to say a few words about how the impexes, we had many, many impexes, were a source of opportunity for corruption. If in the eighties, who were grown up at the time, they recall that there was only one scandal, it belonged to Mineralimpex, because it was so large that it could not be kept secret. For the record, no one's ever been held accountable for it. Imagine, ladies and gentlemen, the scale of the theft was so great that our national economy almost shook. 3.7 billionaires were good at the time when the forint economic damage was found, which was 19 percent of our budget deficit in 89. So a company could produce such a huge money pump. I brought this historic outlook here because we didn't learn offshore from the Westerners who came here after the regime change to build companies, but here they were very well-trained such professionals, who are likely to be good advisors to large companies who like to do it today. The settlement bonds, this is the other; this is on the one hand the issue of money laundering and the other is the question of offshoreing. Apart from one company, all the companies were offshore, who could be transmitting settlement bonds. These companies were able to generate HUF 95 billion in profits. So when such guidelines are created, and big words and precise rules, and we adapt, and all that sort of thing, we have to remember that in the meantime life goes completely differently, it goes according to different rules, which, whether you like it or not, the Hungarian state, the Hungarian government, is contributing, because it still has a number of acquisitions, state, municipal procurement, where either the offshore company receiving the procurement itself, or offshore companies participating in public procurement, either as subcontractors or in some other form of contract. For example, one of the great scandals, if you remember, was the lease of the Hungarian Television, where it operates, the landlord was also an offshore company. As long as a single forint from the Hungarian state's budget is transferred to an offshore company, it is completely unnecessary for us to talk about these big Old Heber texts and its adaptation, even after we are obliged to adapt them because of our membership of the EU. So don't get me wrong, Mr. Secretary, I'm not talking about unnecessary rules, because they're what we need, but it's a pretty powerful hypocrisy for society. Even if you'll allow me, because I have time, I'd show you two perspectives just to see how much damage this world is facing. Only Apple transferred 250 billion dollars to offshore companies in the United States. Just to compare how much money this is, this is double the Hungarian GDP. So a company made double the Hungarian GDP by offshoreing. Okay, the United States is not part of the European Union, but I just want to show you how it works in the world. However, in order to bring Europe here, Amazon itself was able to achieve a tax relief of EUR 250 billion in ten years, with the help of Luxembourg alone. 250 billion euros! So until nothing and the Member States of the European Union can put these principles into practice, which appear in the legislation, we will only show the people a picture and have no effective consequences. In the EU, a few years ago, the Ministry of Finance of four countries requested that at least these international large companies, whose services are cross-border, actually have revenue-based taxation in such a virtual space. This was also funny because the Hungarian Ministry of National Economy wanted these companies to have revenue-based taxation, but then the EU Commission said that this was inappropriate, and yet we were not four countries among them. So I can only hope that the new European Commission will finally stand up, and that Minister of State will certainly be able to convey Jobbik's message through Minister Jobbik, although the EU may not be interested in Jobbik's proposal, but we would like, for example, to start following this line, because countries are losing huge tax revenues, and the money that lands in tax havens is certainly a hotbed for crime, and this is very, very bad for the Hungarian economy and for social morale. There are a hundred words at the end of the Hungarian budget, while the payment of one forint from the Hungarian budget can be made to offshore companies either in a primary or secondary way, so at sub-contracting level, we are very happy that we are adapting EU standards, and we are very happy that these intentions appear, which can be established from the standard text of the legislation, but we can still only tell society that there are rules but there are no disciplined practices. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-22-166	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2019-11-22-167	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I would not repeat the detailed rules of the Secretary of State and my fellow Member with Fidesz. Clearly, we know that Hungary is committed to the fight against terrorism, and in many places we have declared it not only in words but also in actions. Such is the financing of terrorism when financial machinations, digital currencies and different technologies that are already available through modern technology are already available to finance terrorist groups, which need to be kept up and addressed effectively. It is no coincidence that the European Union is already in line with Directive V, since this area is changing extremely rapidly and extremely dynamically, and therefore the Union's leaders and financial managers should be given appropriate answers to new technologies. There was also a number of things that I agreed with in the comments of my fellow Member, Mr Jobbik. At the beginning, I was a little scared when he cried back the pro-abortion liberal American president instead of the conservative Republican president. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: No, no! Your intentions.]] But I got over it, because then the congresswoman told the truth about socialism. I got over it, so it's natural. With regard to the law, I would like to say that we should look at it, because the detailed rules have been discussed before me as to what the international outlook looks like, because, as Mr State Secretary said, the deadline for the transposition of the EU directive into the domestic legal system will soon expire. The deadline for the Hungarian implantation will soon expire, and we know precisely that the Hungarian Government and the Ministry of Finance have examined the European Union environment and the international environment for how and what rules we should make in addition to the directive. After all, we have seen the experience of various terrorist attacks, whether financial or real, and we have seen the needs of domestic companies and the market. We have seen the international directives, and they have created the legislation that is now lying before us. Thus, in the light of international developments, it is also necessary to examine what international legislation is like. It is very important that the competitiveness aspects must also be enforced when drawing up such legislation. The important thing is that, for example, these regulations should not be excessive or more rigid than those of the neighbouring countries or of the largest trading partners, since they would be a competitive disadvantage, but we should keep these rules strictly for the protection of the Hungarian people and the Hungarian market, but keep it within a reasonable framework that it will also hold its place in the international situation. After such an investigation, it can be said that, for example, in the Visegrád countries, for example, Austria, Germany, similar regulations are in place, that the practical solutions applied are in line with the bill that is now in front of us, so we will not be more rigid or exaggerating here, but we will not be undermining the international financial market environment around us. [[16.20]] Thus, regulation within the EU does not undermine our competitiveness indicators, but, with the current proposed amendments, we are fulfilling our international obligations, and financial service companies here or here will see that we are doing everything we can to ensure that the Hungarian government and the Hungarian Parliament are able to create a safe, transparent and accurate market environment. So much for the international outlook. As we have said before, we want to do everything we can to combat terrorism and finance, which is what the current regulation is about. I would ask my fellow Members, together with the Fidesz and KDNP factions, to support this current legislative package, which would, on the one hand, bring about different changes in line with the transposition of Directive 5 and, on the other hand, international developments and experience and the needs of the market, because this is in the interests of the country. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-22-168	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Lajos Korózs, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2019-11-22-169	Thank you very much. I will try to be brief, because what is in the interests of this country will be supported, especially by the fight against terrorism. I have been a Member for a long time, and I remember the expulsion of Dietmar Clodo from Hungary and, unfortunately, his Hungarian contacts very well. With regard to the amendments, the concept of virtual currency or depositor cashier appears. Building on these, the legal scope of virtual currencies and exchange services between legal and virtual currencies, as well as depositaries' cashiers, and, as the Secretary of State said, the law also covers cultural goods and works of art of value and value exceeding HUF 3 million, is very commendable. I have to note that I have just heard Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm's speech a little bit wrong, because I said 500 thousand forints at the time for rents, and in a very professional way Hungarian landlords, especially those who are airbnbz, will usually make 490 million forints. [[Nacsa Lawrence: 1,000! 490 thousand!]] But 20 of them will be tied by... 490,000 forints, but 20 of them. So there is nothing more resourceful than the Hungarian man, we know, or at least very few who are as resourceful as the Hungarian man. I would like to draw attention to the fact that T/7842 was submitted to Parliament this week or perhaps last week. Bill No. 1 which must provide for a financial intermediary system and also concerns public finances and financial stability. If the honatas accept the law I have no doubt that the Fidesz majority will vote in favour of this, I only mention it or mention it because I know it does not belong to this law, but I recommend it to your attention: for the sake of historical loyalty I say that the changes described in the record on pages 38 and 40 of the document remain, then the hidden Hungarian oligarchs will break down champagne, I think they will pack up cheap wine and girls and go to Ibiza, so these people will laugh at themselves. Mr Secretary of State, look, if Minister Varga is not going to start the Finance Minister meeting out there at the next meeting with the new Commission of the European Union, I know that the EU Member State is Cyprus and Malta and Luxembourg, and they are making an awful lot of money on these offshore opportunities, but we can still see how many interpellations and immediate questions have been raised here in the House, which clearly showed how money is being pumped out of Hungary. It's not such a crazy lot, but I've been interviewing Minister Varga recently, and I've just given you an example that from the Heves County Enterprise Development Foundation, which is a small foundation, in one year, a rascal who was the head of this foundation was pumping 1.1 billion forints. There's an investigation going on, because the Minister has also admitted that they had to press charges, that the investigation is not over, that everyone knows what they've done, that they've done, that they've got papers to prove, transfer notes, bank vouchers, that the new President of the Board acknowledges what the previous boss has done, and where is the bulk of the money going to land? President Tamás Sneider can confirm that we are both Egerians: in Luxembourg! Luxembourg will land 650 million forints of this money. That's a big achievement, Mr. Secretary, to cut off 1.1 billion in a small town, a small foundation in a year, that's a big achievement. And 650 million HUF bank notes or references to a former government spokesperson's family will land in their offshore account! I don't mean to be an actuator, but here's the Borkai case, my dear friends. The night before last, I spent a long time talking about punchy socks and cheap discount wine, but that's not what I want to deal with. Where did most of the Audi lands land? The CEO of the Audi, when he sat down to negotiate, said in the ears of several people: sir, for which you will receive money, you will be sentenced to prison in Germany. My son is studying in Germany, and I called him, and I said, Aaron, please tell me that it is the German Btk. How do you order this act to be punished? He says, "Dad, it's ten years old, but if they commit a crime, it's double that. Double! And everyone knows what these gangsters did, how many hundred million forints they took out before each trip. Before every trip! And this could have been done without further ado. So what I would just like to say is that this is not part of the proposal, Mr Secretary of State, is that we will support you in everything that concerns control, whitening, the fight against terrorism, even if we know that these are electronic money, because it is not like in gangster movies that they carry millions of dollars in crates and diplomatic bags, we know that. But everyone knows I'm sorry, so I put it this way the other day, that they're like snails with their spit behind them. Well, digital trails can be discovered. You can't make that disappear, even if they don't carry the millions of euros in bags and suitcases, they just refer. There's also evidence of electronic money. So if there is a proposal, as my fellow Member has asked, we will, of course, vote in favour of it; but I have doubts here that this is the best way to settle everything in this area. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-22-170	Thank you, Congressman, for your input. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. Congressman Tibor Nunkovics submitted a two-minute comment. You have the floor.
u2019-11-22-171	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In relation to this bill and the proposal before us, I have one question for the governing parties, in particular, what about the settlement bond holders, the 20,000 bond holders who came from 59 countries between 2013 and 2017. This means, to be exact, that 6543 bonds were sold, and the nearly 20,000 numbers eventually came out as a result of family reunification. Most of them are Chinese citizens, followed by the Russians, and then many Middle Eastern countries came here by settlement bonds, so to speak, who, of course, did not regard Hungary as their number one target, but wanted to go to the Western European states. There are exceptional individuals, such as the late Ghaith Pharaon, who, for example, were accused of being wanted by the FBI, and he was on the wanted list because he allegedly supported terrorist cells in the Middle East, and yet we have seen him with Lőrinc Mészáros and István Tiborcz, and especially with the latter, who is Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's son-in-law, as we know. There is also enough doubt about the settlement bonds that a lot of people whose due diligence was not complete, to put it mildly, were able to obtain settlement bonds because these due diligences were only eight days before the competent authorities in the initial years, and later this was extended to 30 days. [[16.30]] But let's be honest, whether it's an investor from the offshore country who, let's just say, wasn't born there, but acquired citizenship as we know, it's easy to get these, and he's already been able to get official certificates with [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Let's say he was able to copy his previous criminal record. So what I'm interested in is what happens to the settlement bondsmen, how they're gonna be re-screened. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-22-172	Thank you, Congressman. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed, and I give the possibility of rejoining Mr Gábor Gion, State Secretary.
u2019-11-22-173	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Members, First of all, allow me to thank you for your support and also allow me to remain in line with my custom on the subject that we have just brought here, other issues have been raised in the anti-money laundering bill. Thank you, Andrea Varga-Damm, for your comments on the thresholds. The HUF 300,000 threshold is needed for currency exchangers, indicated by different authorities, and the practice showed that this should be introduced. Of course, we monitor the transposition of the law into practice, and we observe that it must be tightened up, relaxed, excessive, not excessive. So I think that this does not end yet, that we need to look at how this can be put into practice and what practical experience there is. Tax evasion, offshore. I wouldn't mix tax evasion with money laundering. There may be overlaps, but these are two topics that are so complicated that they are separated and separated here as well. This bill is specifically about avoiding money laundering. The proposals that are big, mainly for technology companies in... that this is tax avoidance, not tax avoidance, what is it called by different tax rules, is a good question, this is a debate, thinking at OECD level, at EU level, digital taxation, how we take it, so this is what we are discussing. By the way, the tax avoidance part of offshore operations has been tightened recently, but there's obviously still work to be done. I would love to talk a lot about this, but I would like to remain here with your permission in the bill on the avoidance of money laundering. It's just that the so-called offshore, whatever you mean by it, this bill is going to tighten it up, which is precisely the creation of a real ownership database, so that's why it's tightening up. As far as the amendment to the financial intermediary system is concerned, I am personally the author of it, and I am also coming to the close, so if the Members' ladies and gentlemen have any comments on it, I would like to respond to that, and since it is a legislative proposal, allow me not to comment on specific matters here, but to remain in the bill. Again, thank you for your constructive comments and thank you very much for your support. As I said, this will be a recurring issue, the latest initiative in the European Union, to start drafting Directive 6, so this will be a recurring issue, so we will still have the opportunity to exchange ideas on this issue. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-11-22-174	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The amendments were submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. This brings us to the end of the discussion of today's agendas. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, MEP Zoltán Magyar applied for the title of the Hungarian agricultural union. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-11-22-175	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Another nail in the coffin of the countryside is the subject I have to mention here: I have brought to the House the execution of the Faculty of Agriculture and Economics in Deer. Technically, higher education education, vocational training, BSc, MSc in the faculty, and even the faculty itself, and as such a secondary institution of higher education, perhaps in a posted form! There will be some kind of training at the institute. The 2020 higher education brochure does not include any deer training, this concerns the agricultural, rural development and water management and irrigation professions, which are exactly the areas that we often say here among the walls of the House, that there is a great need for them, and the government constantly refers to the fact that he is on the side of the countryside, how interested he is in finding himself again in the Hungarian countryside, the Hungarian small settlements, and that they can show a kind of vision for the people who live there. This decision came very suddenly, by the way, with a lot of questions about it, and it surprised both the students and the county population, by the way. During yesterday, the management of Szent István University held a student briefing, perhaps the first event where several specifics were already mentioned, I can summarize in one sentence what was the essence of it: they gave up on Szarvas. Also present was Chancellor Ferenc Magyar, Rector László Palkovics and many others of the institution and its maintenance leaders. It wasn't a press conference, by the way, but there's been a lot of leaks. It has also been said that the situation has been known for two years, and yet we have not encountered this set of problems here in Parliament, nor has the budget contained any solutions to this issue; virtually no other warning signal has been leaked before, and they have not come forward with it. And the institutional framework that you're offering me is more of a question than a solution. It may be assumed that under deteriorating standards some kind of training will be maintained, but there will be no way that the remaining institution will be able to declare professional studies on the subject. By the way, the campus has been part of the SZIE for ten years, the fact is that the number of students has halved since then, and the utilisation of educational spaces is about 10 percent, which is a devastating number, and these were referred mainly to by the institution's leaders when they argued for termination. But the truth is that in the last five years, if not radically, there has been an increase in the number of students, and there have been serious management deficiencies and other skills issues here, and the government's neglect and the fact that it has not helped this situation. If we do not make it possible, if we do not make higher education attractive, then it is obvious that we cannot expect a significant increase in the number of students, even though the area would otherwise require new professionals and would be greatly needed. Another problem is the inherited debt of the PPP. This was not recorded by the current leadership, but this is still a set of problems that can be traced back to previous government cycles, but this would have been dealt with in time and in a way. There have been reports of a rolled minus of 1.2 billion forints, which is also a huge amount, but once higher education is maintained as a state task and responsibility, we could expect to find a solution here and now. But it is also true, since the money has been mentioned, that, by the way, if we look around, there are 13 applications in the institution, which informs us about the arrival of 6.3 billion EU funds, and it is assumed that at least the students have received such a signal that this has often migrated to the maintenance institution instead of Szarvas. These are the ominous signs that were already there and which should have been dealt with in time. Otherwise, I would like to draw attention to the fact that our representative from the county of Samu Tamás Gergő Gergő proposed to the county assembly, which could have helped to resolve this issue, but he could not do so with 7 yes, 4 no and 5 abstentions because of the opposition of my fellow members of the government. I'd like some answers to what's going to happen to this institution. We would be very sad if the story were to end here, and indeed this would be another nail in the country coffin. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[16.40]]
u2019-11-22-176	Thank you, Congressman. To speak after the next agenda, Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm has asked for the strength of our pride instead of the battles of power. It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2019-11-22-177	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, If you ask our countrymen who emigrated to Britain, what country they come from, all you have to say is that from where St. Margaret of Scotland came from. In his memory, a church was erected in the building block of Westminster Abbey after his death. Last Saturday, November 16, 926 years ago, St. Margaret of Scotland, Scottish Queen, who was born in Mecsekonadasdon in 1047. His mother, Ágota Árpád-házi, and his father, Edward the Exiled, was an English prince. Their child was born St. Margaret of Scotland; that is, Ágota of Árpád House in Hungary is the mother of the Normandy house. St. Margaret of Scotland, at the end of her father's exile, returned with her family to England, from which they had to flee to Scotland. In 1069 St. Margaret III. Malcolm became the wife of Scottish King Malcolm, who by the way was called Malcolm the Bloody Hand, but St. Margaret of Scotland, as they have since been called, the husband-tame queen, tamed this bloody ruler, all in the court could only hear beautiful words and very gentle conduct. CHAPTER III Malcolm and St. Margaret of Scotland had eight children, three kings and one queen. He, born of the Hungarian mother, St. Margaret of Scotland, is considered to be the ancestor of all Queens of England, because his daughter, Henry Matild I, became married to the English king. St. Margaret of Scotland spread the Catholic liturgy-based religious practice in Scotland, supported all fallen people, supported the poor, built churches and monasteries. After his death, he became a huge cult. In 1261 he became a saint, and since 1969 the day of his death in the Catholic Church was the holiday of St. Margaret of Scotland. So, what can we say? We can say that our Hungarian ancestor is the ancestor of the great, world-ruled royal family of England, and there is Hungarian blood in the veins of all kings and queens of England. Instead of this unfortunately becoming extremely primitive public life in Hungary today, and we would only be busy hurting each other and hating each other, it would be much easier if we could spread the wonderful talents of the Hungarian people, the wonderful history of the Hungarian people and the respect of the Hungarian people around the world with such a wonderful historical record. Because in this way, we can make sure that not only are the words of negative, but also of recognition in the world, but also of Hungary and the people of Hungary. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-22-178	Thank you, Congresswoman. This brings us to the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you all for your work. The Parliament will resume its session next week at 11 a.m. Meeting day's closed.
