u2019-11-18-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] I warmly welcome my fellow Members and all those who are monitoring our meeting today. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. The 9th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. The pre-meeting speeches will follow. Mr Bertalan Tóth of the MSZP Group asked for the floor with a title on current affairs. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2019-11-18-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry that László Kövér does not lead this meeting, because I would like to begin with the words and sentences of Hungary's third state-law dignity and the second man of the state party. Just less than a month ago, at the University of Public Service, he spoke to future civil servants, future law enforcement leaders about the stupidity of the system of brakes and balances, the mass destruction of mobile phones, and even in the eighties, more spiritual freedom in higher education institutions than it is today. He also said that paranoia over the age of 40 is equivalent to life instinct. I wondered if the representatives of the government of the state party shared this opinion, so I asked the members of the Fidesz government whether they would agree with these statements and it turned out to be far from it. For example, Mr Balázs Orbán, State Secretary, who wrote that according to the government, the division of power is a good thing and added with a slight absolution: freedom of expression also belongs to the President of Parliament. Minister Palkovics' Secretary of State called the words in which László Kövér referred to any similarities and comparability with regard to the current higher education system and the Hungarian higher education in the 1980s. And, ladies and gentlemen, they did not agree that mobile phones are a weapon of mass destruction. By the way, if you were, I'd ask you to take the cell phone away from the Speaker immediately. [[Demercation from the benches of opposition representatives.]] I should have calmed down, because the answers have shown me that not everyone in the state party thinks like the Speaker of the House, and even as an opposition to the Orbán government, I could have been humorous about pro-government bickering. However, from the proposals and proposals that we are now looking at, it turns out that you are not kidding. The laws restricting the functioning of the municipalities, the amendments to attack judicial independence and the proposals to regulate opposition representatives show that Fidesz learned nothing from October 13. These proposals show that paranoia was soon dominated by the state party, because in these matters the Fat's position prevails: trash with the system of brakes and balances, trash with the fundamental rights of its representatives! I would also like to make it clear here: the MSZP considers any tightening up which further limits the powers of Members to control their freedom of expression and executive power, the functioning of the municipalities and the independence of the courts to be unacceptable. I understand that László Kövér, President of the Parliament and Fidesz could not swallow the opposition to the outrageous slave law, but it is unacceptable that revenge first takes place in static procedures and penalties, and now in the restriction of the rights of Members. If not from anywhere else, you would know from Hungarian history that only hard answers to anti-democratic governance and power can be created, and these answers will be produced. Ladies and gentlemen, These measures also show the difference between the world of Fidesz and the world of MSZP. Fidesz wants to rewind the wheel of time, we are looking into the future, we are not imagining the future of the country with price-haired, masked sitches, but with creative, critical thinking and cooperation with young Hungarians. [[Dr. István Apáti intervenes.]] In the East or West, our answer is clearly the West. We would like to see Hungary, not in the company of eastern dictators, but in the company of Western civil democracies. Fidesz builds a modern-day caste system in which the privileged few have the power, the money, and the passage is minimal. We believe in the state of chance, in which social differences are reduced, and basic public services are accessible to all. Fidesz wants to reduce municipal rights, we want to increase the financial room for local authorities. Fidesz wants to ban opposition politicians from various buildings [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: We don't want to ban you!]] Because they're trying to protect power by shutting down. However, we will open our own buildings and offices to opposition politicians and NGOs, because with inclusion, dialogue, strong opposition alliances, we will build a new free Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-18-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-11-18-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As regards the claims made by Hungary in relation to the public-law arrangement, the government provided the answers. I'm sorry you had problems when you should have understood them. The Hungarian laws and the Hungarian Fundamental Law are clear on this issue. As regards the amendment of the house rules, honourable Member, we agree with this initiative, because neither ugly nor obscene speech has any place in Parliament, nor is there room for disorderly speech. It is clear that the sanctions so far have not prevented opposition representatives from breaking the law, and that is why tightening up should be supported. The authors also examined foreign western practices. There are even stricter rules in many places. In other countries, a person may be banned from parliamentary work for up to 10 or 30 days, as may the rights of his or her representatives be suspended. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that Ákos Hadházy's obscene action in other parliaments would not be without consequences. [[Intruders from the pro-government benches: That's right!]] I don't think they have any reason to turn the National Assembly into a third-rate circus. [[Szabó Timea: We're not doing this!]] We are not going to let that happen, and I think that is not what your voters expect. [[Szabó Timea: Yes! That's why we won!]] [[13.10]] On the other hand, it is always very strange to listen to you, to listen to your lectures on democracy and the rule of law, and we talk about this a lot here, but it is the coalition of eye-shooters that we have talked about here a lot, but if we look at the last few days, we can still give you a lot of examples of your hypocrisy. For example, Péter Niedermüller missed MSZMP, Tibor Szanyi showed equality between the work of the current law enforcement agencies and the ÁVH is absurd in itself, and you are rehabilitating the Snow Sofia who called 1956 a counter-revolution and Nazid the freedom fighters in Pest. Now, if I recall correctly, you were talking about a state of chance, a policy of chance. What they mean by that, it shows what they're doing in Kispest. Let's look at the moral questions. As I understand it, you think it's important. More than a month has passed, but the politicians in Kispest who have been involved in an unprecedented scandal are still in place, even getting positions. All this by clearly talking about corruption techniques, overpriced, redistributives, the involvement of the left-wing mayor of Kispest, and the fact that anyone who can't raise 100 million forints as a stupid municipal representative. That's what you're talking about, and you know it. You're gonna give him a position, and you're gonna look like a bird when you settle the whole thing with the fact that you accidentally put in a wrong list. Wrong list, wrong list, wrong list. And it's not just in the districts. Kata Tüttő, who was the head of the public procurement committee during Miklós Hagyó's time, will be responsible for the city's operation. Here in this House, they talk about public money, and in the field, we see the sticky hands again, and you don't even blink. The thing is that they are not only increasing this scandalous practice here at home, but also in Brussels. Their only representative, István Ujhelyi, who was disfigured in the campaign, told the world in a proud message that he voted for the Romanian Commissioner-designate. The problem is not that in itself, but that the Hungarian candidate is systematically attacked. The candidate of Hungary! [[Szabó Timea: Corrupt bastard!]] Romanian candidate yes, Hungarian candidate no, this is the international policy of MSZP now [[Intercoms from the opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] They seem to be in a very ugly competition with the Momentum about who can better meet orders, which certainly does not come from Hungary. If I have to summarize all this in my reply to you, honourable Member, then I can say that in the matter of the rule of law, please do not give a lecture while the MSZMP is being cried back and the memory of the heroes of '56 is being crushed, and they will otherwise join with anti-Semites. If they're worried about public money, they're gonna take action on Kispesten. [[Bence of Turdai: If you know of a crime, report it.]] And if you refer to Hungary, then give it a try and support the candidates of our country. [[Interviews from the LMP, from the dialogue.]] If they did that, that would be the real left-wing revolution and renewal! Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-18-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, On the subject of current issues, the leader of the Szabó Timea Group from the Group of Dialogue applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, ma'am. You have the floor.
u2019-11-18-5	Ladies and gentlemen, This week, Parliament will discuss the law on the further limitation of Members. Honestly, I was relieved to read this draft, because, as a result of previous amendments by László Kövér, they could have easily sent us to a labor camp, or even built some kind of dungeon-like formation here under Parliament, and then they might have locked us up there. And if you think I'm kidding, then it's worth listening to what Csaba Hende said at today's committee meeting, where we discussed this proposal. As a reason, he quoted Matthew's Gospel, saying: "He who stumbles one of the little ones is better for him to have a millstone attached to his neck and thrown into the depths of the sea. Yeah, I see, so if you and László Fat think we're going to shock you, then it would be best if you put a millstone around our necks and cast it deep into the sea. I didn't say that, Csaba Hende said that, amidst the fierce nodding of the Fidesz MEPs. Then let us make things easier here, then withdraw this, and then put it in a way to tie millstones to the opposition representatives' necks, and then throw us into the sea. Let's stop messing around with these make-believe changes. They could put us on the edge of the Danube, and then we'll take care of this whole thing a lot faster. Let's look at the details. You want to ban us from public institutions, because, God forbid, anyone who swallows 90 billion forints a year and who is famous for their impartiality checks out Magyar Television, don't give it to God, the opposition representatives will solve this with their good hairdressing metaphors. Then László Fat will decide which committee we can sit on, because he knows better than that, so that the previous professional experience may not decide. But then comes the exciting part of this whole proposal: in the future, László Kövér can practically take a Member's salary for any reason for a full year or even ban us from our own workplace. For example, if the janitor doesn't like a shout-out, we'll skip a month's pay. It is true that in every parliament in the world it is permitted to yell, especially when the governing parties lie as much as you do. And if, according to László Kövér, we obstruct the course of the debate, he also considered the meeting on the slave law of December last year to be such, he may withdraw a year's salary from Members. [[13.20]] The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that you and Viktor Orbán are sitting on the horse backwards. You confuse the lesson of decency with fundamental rights, because freedom of expression is a privileged place in the hierarchy of fundamental rights. You have no right to limit that, no matter how much you wish. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Does that mean there's no house rules?!]] Tell me where there is another country in the European Union where the rights of Members are restricted in such an unprecedented way. There are bans, there are withdrawals, but for a few days, and the pay is only taken for the few days when it's banned. Neither in England, Germany, nor in Austria, there is no such unparalleled deterioration! [[Noise in opposition benches. Interviews from the Fidesz ranks.]] It can be banned, but not like this. [[Complaining from the dialogue: Are you yelling at me? The president's ringing the bell.]] Yeah, they're interrupting, a month's salary is now jumping for the Fidesz congressmen! And you are doing this because we are telling the truth about Viktor Orbán and you are a lying, thieving government. That you're not driven by anything but theft, the theft, the theft. Are you aware of the serious legal consequences of this, by the way? Of course, we will go to the Constitutional Court in Strasbourg, but that is not the point. In addition, all of this is justified in such a false way that they believe that the opposition violates the dignity of this House. Well, I will tell you, ladies and gentlemen, what violates the dignity of this House and you should be ashamed of yourselves. It was a violation of the House's dignity when you guys took the tramps away from disabled people and gave them to your thieving buddies. It violated the dignity of the House when Viktor Orbán's thieving family and friends stole the land from the farmers and gave it to their oligarchs. [[Dr. Pál Völner: You're lying!]] It insulted the dignity of this House when you imprisoned homeless people because you have no idea what mercy means. This violates the dignity of this House. Shame on you, all of you. They learned nothing from the defeat of October 13th. That's exactly what people are fed up with, the banning, the punishment, the prison, the millstone hanging from our necks. Moreover, this new repression will only unite the opposition even more. Don't have any illusions, they won't break us, because we're going forward on this road, and that's exactly why we're going to drive you out of the government in 22th. We stay together and do what people expect us to do. Thank you.
u2019-11-18-6	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, Mr Balázs Orbán, State Secretary, responds to her speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-11-18-7	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and His speech on specific matters set out a philosophical question for me. What I think we should do first is clarify, because what really revolves around the whole debate is that we are here and what this House is for. If we can agree on this, then we will also be involved in a platform on the issues raised by you. I think the reason this House is here is because I wrote it down so I wouldn't say something wrong that this is the nation's most important forum. Or, as the Hungarian Fundamental Law states, this is the main body of popular representation, where I add it in parentheses of their own free will, from outside the border and at the border, Members of Parliament are sent here to decide on the most important issues relating to them, and otherwise to conduct the various political, ideological and other debates. This is a house that, if we watch Hungarian history, our ancestors have fought for hundreds of years or even thousands of years. Because if this house was, and Hungarian people were in it, then it was also important that they could argue with each other in Hungarian about the country's affairs, then it meant that there is a country. And if this forum wasn't or didn't work, it meant that there was no country, because there was some kind of external power that didn't allow it to function freely. So if we can agree on this, and I believe that all 199 elected Members must agree on this, and this is what they have sworn to do, I will only add this in parentheses, so that this place is for us to be able to argue with each other in a civilised way, and we can make the most important decisions on this country, and that requires two things. On the one hand, that the House should function normally, so that decisions can be made. Congresswoman, ad Absurdum, this House is going to make decisions that you don't like. [[Szabó Timea: So far, only such decisions have been made!]] Yes, fortunately, there is a right-wing government that, fortunately, makes decisions that do not correspond to your left-wing, progressive ideology. Of course, I think that's okay. But, Congresswoman, this House has the right to make decisions, and you have no right to prevent decision-making. You have one right called the protection of the opposition's guarantee rights. You have the right to express your opinion, you have the right to cast your vote, you have the right to criticize decisions, but you have no right to prevent these decisions. What happened here on December 12th, and what has Congressman Hadházy done here in the last few weeks? It wasn't an expression of opinion, it was a disorder. That was to make Parliament's normal functioning impossible. By attacking the Prime Minister with a whistle, a drum, a violin, a reed, an attack on the head of the meeting, you wanted to obstruct the functioning of Parliament, thus also trying to undermine the dignity of Parliament and the legitimacy of Parliament. Which is not important because at the moment there is a right-wing majority in Parliament. There may later be a left-wing majority in Parliament, there has been such a thing in history; the right-wing majority may remain. But the point of the matter is that we Hungarians have been fighting for a thousand years to have this building here, and in this building Hungarian people can speak Hungarian and decide on the affairs of the country. [[There's a noise in the dialogue.]] [[There's a noise in the dialogue.]] [[There's a noise in the dialogue.]] And if you scream, yell, yell, yell, the Prime Minister gets attacked, you don't let the Speaker run the meeting normally, then you don't take this place seriously. And if the Hungarian MPs who were sent here do not take this place seriously, who will take it seriously? (Noise in the lines of the Dialogue. ) Other countries won't take us seriously! If we make a fool of ourselves, if we embarrass ourselves, if that behavior makes us look like a banana republic, how can we expect others to take us seriously? So, Congresswoman, this is not about who likes your political opinion and who doesn't like it. In fact, you're not even in the position to claim exclusivity to your political opinion. This House is meant to be able to work here, which is why Hungarian voters have sent MEPs here. And anyone who prevents this, therefore, does not comply with the laws, must bear the corresponding consequences. (Noise in the lines of the Dialogue. ) That's what democracy is all about, and that's what the rule of law is all about, and that's what you've been fighting for the last five minutes. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-18-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. How credible is the government's policy? Mr László György Lukács applied for a speech on the agenda from the Jobbik Group. There you go. You have the floor.
u2019-11-18-9	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Recently, there is not much reason to be happy about the news of health care, or even its own health or health status, and its wider context. Every day, news is published that, based on statistics, Hungarians usually show by international organisations where the Hungarian health system is, in European terms, and how well the picture that people see fits and what the government tells us about health care. In order to see that every year, unfortunately, it is confirmed that the data of Hungarian health care is always available in the last place, if such a picture or metaphor can be used. The separation between the Western European average or even the Western European average and the Hungarian performance is very clear and very impressive. The second problem is that there is a steady increase in delays, so instead of working something off Hungary, it is moving back and forth. And what is emblematic and perhaps most striking is that the reforms in Hungary do not work at all, the development they are going to do does not work at all, it is never carried out, as if health care in Hungary is the stepchild of the legislation at all. It is an important data, and perhaps one of the most important examples of how the health care of Hungarians and Hungarians stands, how long we can live and what quality we live in. One of them is the indicator of life expectancy at birth. In this OECD average, i.e. we are virtually five years behind the average of countries with an advanced economy, the average life expectancy at birth in Hungary is 75,9 years, or 76 years, but still significantly lower than men. The second is the life years in health after 65 years, which is now roughly the same as the retirement age. We're doing even worse. After the pension and the active life of Hungarian people, Hungarians get as little information as possible from healthy years of life. And yet another alarming data, perhaps one of the most alarming, is the question of avoidable deaths. According to the latest research in Hungary, 38 thousand people die every year so that death can be avoided. It is therefore, in essence, responsible for what you, a respected pro-government majority, have put under the roof in terms of health care. 38,000 of our countrymen die because, on the one hand, there is little money in health care, little money in it, and, on the other hand, the performance of our health institutions simply doesn't peak, they operate in a stifling state, which patients are suffering. We are also at the forefront of other causes of death, cancer causes. We can say that today the cancer has become a Hungarian disease. They used to think it was different. It's what they think it is these days. [[13.30]] But what's behind it? Ladies and gentlemen, it is very clear: Hungarians are not the most self-destructive nation in this world, others have at least similar bad habits, but the Hungarians are the most unfortunate of all that everything they want for health care does not get to health care, they do not get to the general doctor, they do not get to the hospital, and they do not get to the patients. Here, perhaps one of the obvious figures: the Hungarian state, Hungary, spends one of the least on public health, and even spends on it in a way that is less than the EU average, as badly as on education, health is under the bottom of the frog. We're failing, that's another huge problem. The hospital ward closures for which... I'm glad that Secretary Bence Rétvári, who is your state's maintainer, seems to be preparing for what you have denied here, to close classes, making it impossible, for example, for the Kazincbarcika hospital, to close the obstetrics in Mezőtúr and even take active care of Tapolca. You, Mr. Secretary of State, told me about two weeks ago that this was not the case, and it is no longer clear that the State Healthcare Services Centre is now trying to undermine the chances of Hungarian people. GP care has not been renewed, even though it is one of the most important roles. There are currently 400 unfilled practices in Hungary, about a quarter of Hungary's territory is where patients do not get to the general practitioner and cannot use the services in the primary care in time. But we could say the lack of public health, you're collecting the public health product tax, which, by the way, is correctly collected, but you're not spending it on health care, and you can't even tell where it's being spent. People paid for it on purpose to improve health care by paying taxes on unhealthy foods, and to help them, no program has been launched. Dear Secretary of State, The formula is very clear, they say: small money, small football, small money, small health care even Viktor Orbán understands this. More money, more skills, more attention for health care. We can live, Mr. Secretary of State, and we can live longer and even healthier, but we will need your help to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and the independent.]]
u2019-11-18-10	Thank you very much. The Secretary-General Bence Rétvári responds to his speech before the agenda. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Wow, it's gonna be hard!]] Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-11-18-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Every sentence in your speech can be refuted, honourable Member. You stand up as an exporter of a doctor [[Defiance and interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] And he says how little... [[Intercoms from Jobbik: Clown! Clown!]] how few doctors in one or other hospital were, while you were proud of yourself before you became a Member, of how many doctors were involved in sending them abroad. You are talking about the pathetic and deteriorating life expectancy in Hungary. Mr President, in 2010, men had 70.5 years, now more than 72.5 years, life expectancy has increased by more than two years, and you say here in Parliament that this is pathetic and deteriorating, while rising by more than two years. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. Dr. László György Lukács: I didn't say that!]] It also increased by more than a year for women [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Understanding problems! We're gonna have a class.]] This means that overall, if I compare men and women, life expectancy has increased by more than a year and a half, and you here in Parliament say that this is a deteriorating figure. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] Honourable Member, we have finally managed to make the difference between the EU average and Hungary less than five years, that there is now less than five years difference between the life expectancy of an EU average citizen born west of Lajta and the life expectancy of a Hungarian citizen. You say that it is even more deplorable how the number of years expected to be spent in health is getting worse, is different, with a different life span and different number of years spent in health; at the end of our lives we will probably face diseases, but how much time before these diseases cause a noticeable deterioration in the standard of living. Mr President, in the case of men, this has increased by 2.2 years since 2010, to which you said that life expectancy is even worse than life expectancy, ladies and women have increased by 3.3 years. Congressman, you're saying there's not enough doctors when you're exporting doctors. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] You say that life expectancy is deteriorating by more than a year and a half, and you say that the number of years spent in health is increasingly miserable, while all women are reported by Eurostat. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Hospital closures?! Z. Kárpát Dániel: Tapolca Hospital?!]] Honourable Member, these words are completely discredited, and they are refuted by mathematics. Just as his statements based on the articles of Népszava are equally untrue. Honourable Congressman, The government did not negotiate any hospital closure or request any such proposal. What you're saying is that it's all untrue, it's all fake news. We are not dealing with hospital closures, as opposed to your allies, but we are dealing with hospital building; for example, we would build a super hospital in South Buda, only that the DK mayor and then your opposition colleagues here say that this is not necessary and that the government should not build a super hospital in South Buda. [[Zsolt Gréczy: You haven't built anything in ten years!]] Honourable Congressman, You and your allies have closed the children's hospital in Swabhegy [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] What, on the other hand, if you pass the Heim Pál Hospital, you don't recognize what the hospital looks like from the outside [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] and from within, you will find countless completely new machines to cure children. You, your allies, have closed OPNI, on the other hand, we are trying to develop exactly the OPAI so that it can take back its national professional background. [[Tamás Sneider: When we were on the wheel, tell me! When were we on the government?!]] You and your allies have shut down Szabolcs Street Hospital, and we have 91... [[Zsolt Gréczy: Why didn't you restart it?!]] We have renovated 91 hospitals in recent years, honourable Member, from European Union and domestic sources, partly from domestic money, partly from EU money, some of which are completely and partly from hospitals. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] You, honourable opposition representatives, have shut down Schöpf-Merei Hospital, but we are building a new wing for Bethesda Children's Hospital out of billions of forints to cure as many children as possible there. That is the difference, honourable Member, between your speeches and your actions and the tasks undertaken and fulfilled by us. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: We haven't been on the government, by the way, but we will be. You're full of shit. Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] Mr. Congressman, We will spend HUF 770 billion more on health next year than the last budget presented by the opposition parties in 2010, with HUF 770 billion more. You have voted against none of the increases, honourable Members. You were talking about general medical practices: in 2010 the monthly income of a general medical practice in Hungary did not reach 900 thousand forints on average, now 1.6 million forints, honourable Member! Feel the difference [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] Who seriously believes that basic care should be supported and provides additional resources to it? In the case of screenings, honourable Member, it is precisely in recent years that the colon and rectal screenings that are important for men have started to be, in addition to previous breast screening and lung screening screening, new free screenings that can save thousands of lives every year, honourable Member. [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] All you do is base yourself on false news and try to destroy the trust of patients and doctors, the trust of patients and nurses, the trust of hospital staff and hospital managers. This is what you, on the other hand, seem to be taking effective action. Thank you very much. [[Dr. János Fónagy: That's right! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-18-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, For five years in a fight with the government, Mr Lajos Oláh from the DK Group applied to speak before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-18-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Some 1.5 million people in our country suffer from ragweed allergies, the main pathogen is the plant itself, it is the most common weed, it produces a lot of pollen, and it flourishes for a very long time, so it is understandable that most hay fevers are caused by this pollen. I would like to remind this House that I have tried to draw the government's attention to this problem almost 150 times so far, because of the recent passing of this season, and to make proposals to ease it, unfortunately, with little success. The government has always been willing to fight against this plant in words, but in particular it has been able to report very few substantive measures, and from the incantation, the rag grass does not back down. The number of pollen particles in a cubic metre of air is very important for ragweed-allergic diseases, which in the last three years has been at least 400-500 in peak periods, which is about 1.5 times the average for many years, and is often between 800 and 1000. However, my repeated request was left unanswered as to how much the government plans to reduce this within the next one or two years. There's an action plan for the fight against ragweed, but there's no target, so you can't count on that. It turned out to me that in the areas near the roads and railways, a billion and a half forints were planned this year for deflecting ragweed, three of which were planned to be mowed. The mowing of an acre at a very reasonable price is about 60,000 forints, which means the amount indicated is ridiculously small, and you can't even clean up your own turf on your own doorstep. In the three years between 2015 and 17 an average fine of HUF 25,000 per hectare was imposed on the owners due to land contaminated with ragweed, so it is better to pay the fine than to mow the grass. [[13.40]] It also turned out that during this period only 2-3 thousand pieces of land were found to be contaminated, which is understandable, since last year only 5 thousand ragweed checks were carried out by government agencies, and government agencies have no capacity to carry out this task, although with such effectiveness the number of checks should be increased by magnitude. I urged farmers not to receive EU support after land contaminated with ragweed. The answer was that they didn't get it now, but they couldn't tell how much support they had taken. I also suggested that we try to involve EU funds in the defence. I have initiated closer cooperation with neighbouring countries, as the wind and the pollen particles it carries do not respect national borders. I have communicated the proposals of civil society organisations to the ministries, but we have all seen how the government deals with civil society organisations. Answers meant to be soothing, empty promises were always given to me, nothing else. I suggested that if there is already a government commissioner responsible for cycling, then the fight against ragweed will also be left to a government commissioner, as it involves a number of wallets that should be coordinated. You couldn't tell me, you couldn't send me an estimate of the damage to the national economy every year because of the ragweed. The grass causes a significant economic disadvantage for the country with sick days, tourism decline and agricultural damage; this can be measured in tens of billions. Every year, the fifth of our countrymen are tortured regularly, but the government cannot afford more than words and appearances. Today, citizens spend billions of forints on medicines. Health care can't take the pressure of the season, and unfortunately, many people are left with only self-healing, the consequences of which doctors can say a lot about. If the government cares about that one and a half million people, it's time to make a move. This situation, which we are experiencing today, will only increase significantly with climate change. The season starts early, but at least it lasts longer. You started the fight against ragweed by spending 1% added up by Hungarian taxpayers on SUVs and laptops. My request is not to continue like this, but to do something for the people who suffer this disease every year, who you have left on the side of the road. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-18-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Sándor Farkas, State Secretary, responds to the speaker's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-11-18-15	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to share a few specifics in response to your questions with all of us, first of all, on biological bases: the seed of the ragweed in the soil, in extreme cases, can remain germ-capable for up to 40 years, and a plant can bring up to 50-60 thousand seeds. The growth of seeds is also significantly influenced by environmental factors and weather. These facts alone carry the long time taken for defensive work. Not only in the Carpathian Basin, but also in northern Italy, France, Switzerland, it has been established and increased, which means to a certain extent that the characteristics of the Carpathian Basin are particularly favourable to the ragweed. In this region, weed plants can spread almost barrier-free. Just one small note: we are not talking about an indigenous weed in the Carpathian Basin, but we are talking about the seeds imported and received in some way in the Carpathian Basin, including in Hungary. Hungary is unique in the region with strict legislation to ensure that landowners and land users in their areas prevent the formation of grass flower buds and pollen planting of weeds. Detergents are the responsibility of the land user. The law requires that the weeds-free state be maintained continuously during the vegetation period of the grass, which is controlled by the competent authorities. Because of all these facts, effective results can only be achieved with the active participation of all members of society. I would like to note, honourable Member, that you are trying to place this burden on agriculture in a significant part of your proposals and questions, even though we know that in cities, in public areas that are not used, this weed is extremely widespread and that it causes even more serious situations in a residential area. You refer to the area of MÁV and the road. Here, however, I see as a person passing through the country that this picture has changed significantly, but also as regards arable crops, farmers are doing their best to keep these areas free of weeds. In a significant part of this, of course, there are natural difficulties due to the different weather conditions, where, after an internal water period, certain areas may be left out at different points of the boards, which are extremely difficult to approach later, but can be detected by drone shots and helicopter shots. On the basis of the data of the ragweed information system, the district offices acting as land administration offices have discovered a total area infected with 5001 hectares of ragweed in 3643 cases until 17 November 2019. On the basis of the checks, county government offices have ordered protection of the public interest for 2412 hectares. A plant protection penalty of HUF 132.2 million was imposed in the external area on the basis of the reports of ground access. The public may report the areas of the grass through the ragweed notification system, which in any case will be sent directly to the competent authority. According to available data, 4705 notifications were received by the competent authorities through the network reporting system during this year's grass season. With the funding of the competent Agri-ministery, as I mentioned earlier, aerial surveillance, drone scans, helicopter ragweed reconnaissance have been made possible. Based on the experience gained so far, the attitude of farmers and landowners has improved as a result of aerial reconnaissance, and more and more have volunteered to deconstruct their territory, which is already partly related to the former. I assure the Member that the government will continue to do everything in its power to reduce Hungary's infection with ragweed, thereby improving the quality of life of people suffering from allergic and asthmatic diseases. With this in mind, it will be in order to work as effectively as possible, whether it is with the Member, the relevant wallets and civil society organisations. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-18-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr László Keresztes, leader of the Lóránt Group from the LMP Group, has also applied for a speech on current affairs. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2019-11-18-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Indeed, on current affairs, this is the title of my speech before today's agenda. I will talk about matters, proposals and motions that we have seen over the past week from the government and some of the members of the government, or measures that some members of the government have announced or are linked to them. We can see that these measures on the part of the government were such legislative dumping, obviously because of the time squeeze, they largely symbolize what we can expect from government policy, what is the essence of government policy, what is typical of it, and what is lacking in government policy. Basically, I would not like to present a list of errors, let us say, not the list of errors of the last week, but, by a few concrete examples, by mentioning some concrete, important examples, I would like to draw attention to what the government thinks about parliamentary operation, the role of the opposition, what it thinks about the enforcement of national interests in its governance, and what it thinks about local governments. In the past many years, we have learned, at the latest in the last nine years, that the essence of Fidesz's policy is communication governance, public propaganda, the essence of which is spasmodic attachment to power, and that they are subject to everything, where appropriate, to sell out our national interests. We have seen it, and we can say that there has been a scandal about the proposed package of measures that has been announced regarding the status of Members of Parliament and the resolution concerning house rules. In doing so, they presented their views on the functioning of Parliament, their views on the role of the opposition. On this issue, I think that we will still have very serious and intense debates this week. [[13.50]] At the same time, it could also be revealed to those who have not yet seen that the government's policy and government's work are the most lacking in the enforcement of national interests. If they find it necessary, they can sell these values, these interests, at any time. The most critical example of last week was perhaps when Minister Palkovic announced last Tuesday in Beijing that every last limit had been removed from the Budapest-Belgrád railway project, as the financing contract will be signed later this year. Two weeks ago, I was trying to find out from Minister Szijjártó what return guarantees there were here for the nearly thousand billion-dollar project, and, well, he could not say anything, Minister, and from all directions, it is pretty much clear that this giant project cannot be justified in any way from the point of view of Hungarian national interests. In practice, the government is taking a thousand billion forints out of the pockets of Hungarian taxpayers. Yet they are taking this step, and we know well that this cannot be interpreted from the point of view of Hungarian national interests, but it is clear that the Chinese interest and the companies of Lőrinc Mészáros will be able to participate in this giga project by about HUF 300 billion. But it was also a symbolic proposal to present a free trade agreement between the EU and Canada, which, fortunately, was removed from the agenda, but it is certainly symbolic to present this proposal, the ratification and the way in which it has been removed from the agenda. So it is quite clear that the announcement of this free trade agreement is the surrender of our national sovereignty from a government, a majority of governments who lie to themselves as national. It is quite clear that here, in line with the profits of multinational companies, the government has practically raised its hand, thereby selling out food security, labour rights, environmental protection, they are giving up national sovereignty at all. And it is also symbolic that this ratification was eventually withdrawn not because they would not be able to sell out our national interests at any time, but because you also expect there to be a government, a majority of governments in the EU that will indeed prevent this ratification in accordance with national interests. So it's really unnecessary for you to submit this, and if it had been submitted, it would obviously have been accepted in accordance with previous practice. It is also symbolic of the measures that have been put in place for the operation of the municipalities. Everyone in Hungary expected that a month after the failure of the municipal elections, Viktor Orbán and the Fidesz government would react, what they would do, and we can say that no one was surprised by this reaction. You believe and do so, that if you have seriously lost ground in the municipalities, then the fundamental visceral reaction on your part is to try to further limit the functioning of the municipalities and the autonomy of the municipalities. There could also be a number of measures to steer Hungarian public life and Hungarian politics in this direction, but among them, the shocking measure is that one of the most important public services, in terms of public transport, are not trying to solve the old debt that is being paid to local authorities for adequate funding and proper central funding, but simply points out certain items in the municipalities and, as a dictator, they want to order municipalities to finance this through business tax revenues. I know that it is difficult to digest this municipal election failure, my fellow members of the government, but with these measures you will punish not opposition politicians, but all the people affected by these important public services, both in opposition and in pro-government cities. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-18-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Mr Rétvári Bence, State Secretary, responds to his speech before the agenda on behalf of the Government. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-11-18-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Mr. Team Leader! Dear House, Obviously, it is no coincidence that you forgot to mention the benefits of these legislative proposals for families, how important it is to reduce bureaucracy, whether it is someone who builds or changes his personal data, how much easier his situation is, the extent to which electronic administration continues to spread fortunately in the Hungarian government administration, and much more has been forgotten. He started with himself, honourable Member, in his own position as an opposition Member of Parliament. You know, every rule of the house that sets the framework for our ability to operate here applies to all Members in the same way. So there is an old saying: defend the law, and the law protects you. These laws are all about taking action against disrupters, and protecting those who obey the order, and those who adhere to the rules and regulations of the house, honourable Member. In addition to legislation, Parliament is primarily providing ground for you opposition representatives. You can control the executive power, the government here in Parliament. The rules that have been worked out in the house rules are precisely for your control from week to week, honourable Member, and somehow you always assume it, and all other opposition fellows always assume that you will be disruptive, and in this case you may be at a disadvantage. Honourable Congressman, These rules are guarantee rules for everyone to have all their licenses. And it is a genre gift that in addition to legislation, in the control of executive power, you are the ones who use these control mechanisms most of the time. Honourable Congressman, What opposition representatives did here in Parliament last December or this autumn, I do not believe that they could have done in Europe, especially in Western Europe, in any legislative process, could have allowed themselves, and otherwise not necessarily because of house rules. It is not because it is written in the house rules that it is forbidden to sneeze, and it is forbidden to prevent fellow Members from voting or taking part in a meeting, but their own faction also decides not to do so. Because, you know, voters voted for you, voters voted for us, that's the end result. Please also respect the opinion of the voters who voted for the pro-government Members, and do not prevent the opinion of the millions of people here in Parliament from being embodied in a legal form, who voted not for you, but for us. And don't be angry at us when, in the previous three elections, the voters supported very large, decisively the candidates and lists of the governing parties, honourable Member, perhaps not just the dignity of this House. That way, the electorate, the electorate who elected us, could be honored that they do not want to stop by force what our electorate has sent us to this Parliament to do here. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Well, I'm sure they didn't send me here to steal. The president's ringing the bell.]] Secondly, as a member of the Green Party, you have stood up in the Hungarian Parliament recently and spoke against railway construction. I believe that this could be framed separately and that your pro-green European brothers and sisters could be sent around to see that there is another Green Party in Europe that is speaking against railway construction in Parliament. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] While, in principle, every Green Party in every country in the world is speaking to build a railway or, where appropriate, a port [[Márta Demeter interrupts. Continuous Interactions]] but on the road... instead of the polluting, the polluting, the polluting forms of transport [[The president's ringing the bell.]] be a more environmentally friendly form of rail transport. You're just so blinded by your feelings towards the ruling parties that you're against everything that's pro-government, you're able to oppose a railroad construction here. But I think you have also made a record, honourable Member, of one minute attacking government proposals of the type of Eastern opening and then attacking Western European-type proposals, so you have attacked all kinds of openings, whether you are in the Euroatlantic region or you are in the South East Asian region, you have opposed all openings, you have opposed all economic relations. Only then how will our country actually expand? You will close west, close east and south towards Hungary, then what will we actually prosper from, and how can Hungary move forward? Honourable Congressman, In the case of public transport, as a Green Party Member, you are also opposed to the fact that a bill puts the safety of public transport at the forefront. As a Green Party, you are opposed to a proposal to support public transport, honourable Member, it is also incomprehensible to a party that calls itself green. It also shows that it is not the protection of the environment that is most important to you, but the opposition of the government, and I really ask you not to create any kind of publicity or not to suggest that it is not as it has been before, because the capital will receive all the price supplements as it has done in previous years. These are billions of dollars, and they will continue to be at the capital's disposal. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-18-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the Group of the KDNP, entitled Patriotism or the ideology of rootlessness, has applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2019-11-18-21	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian Permanent Conference held its meeting last week. It was an uplifting feeling to hear the revelations of the representatives of Hungarian political organizations in the Carpathian Basin. Not only did they report the political situation of their own country, not only the daily hard struggle that meant their existence and the representation of their political and human rights, but they felt the responsibility for all Hungarians. [[14.00]] From their words, too, we have been able to experience what, of course, we have long said that they are thinking in humans and in human communities, not in ideologies. It also felt good to see that the present Hungarian parliamentary parties, governing parties and opposition parties were able to achieve a kind of national unity. What the people across the border could do is what we can't do here: unite government parties and opposition parties, for a national cause, for national policy. That felt good, too. Unfortunately, the circle was not complete, because a opposition parliamentary party was missing, but I do not think we should be surprised at that, because if we think that they behaved similarly in the referendum 15 years ago, this does not surprise anyone. I'm afraid they don't have much idea about the nation. But unfortunately, there is a supply. We all know how the Momentum acted on the campaign events that took place in the surrounding countries, where they supported their ideological friends against the representatives of their own nation. For the record, this is what they are doing in Brussels today. This behaviour is referred to by a sentence of the joint declaration signed by all Members. I note that this statement has not only been signed jointly as representatives of the parties present, but many have also been involved in its creation. This sentence reads:. The members' organisations expect the Hungarian political parties to support the parties and candidates representing the Hungarian community in the neighbouring states. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Interjection between Dr. Ágnes Vadai and Zsolt Gréczy.]] On the other hand, it was on the basis of an ideology that they decided who they were supporting against the Hungarian candidate. Another issue is that this ideology and its consequences, even in Western Europe, have failed. Just think of the fact that parallel societies have been created as a result of this ideology, or that this is where the wild drivings of gender madness come from. I believe that the struggle of Hungarian organizations working among the relations of minority existence should be a source of respect and compassion from all decent, well-spoken people. And we all have a duty to support them. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-18-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear House, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to Mr Fraction Manager's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-11-18-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would also like to refer to the meeting of the Diaspora Council and the Hungarian Permanent Conference, and I would like to bring to the attention of the House the final statement of the Diaspora Council, and I quote: "I am concerned about the new phenomenon by which some political parties in Hungary support political forces in neighbouring states that deny the nation, the rights of national minorities. This narrow-minded, extremely liberal approach is contrary to Hungarian national values and interests. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Interventions from Jobbik benches, including János Bencsik: This was not included in the closing statement!]] This was said at the Diaspora Council, no matter what they yell at me. I'm sorry. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] that Jobbik will follow the same lead on this issue as left-wing parties [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: What are you talking about? To the pro-government benches, what are you nodding for?]] If you're gonna yell at me. Dear House, I think it is appropriate to discuss, from time to time in this Parliament, what is the national interest and what are the practices that go against this national interest, and one thing we can say for sure: what the Momentum has done now has a lot of history on the left. They have shown many times that they are often completely insensitive to Hungarian affairs. Let's take a little historical look. I am not detailing the decades of communism now, because it deserves a special debate day, and there are the history books, but I am sure that Péter Medgyessy had a toast with the Romanian Prime Minister on 1 December 2002 on the anniversary of the connection of Transylvania. What insensitiveness! [[Constant interruptions from Jobbik's benches.]] After that, it is virtually not surprising that they campaigned against foreign Hungarians before the 2004 referendum, and one of their deepest straws was that 23 million Romanians were alerting the people of the motherland. Since then, there has been dual citizenship, but for example, Ferenc Gyurcsány's party has not voted for it, and since then Hungarians from abroad have been regularly attacked. Then let's look at the economic approach. The left was basically opposed to the country's interests when he sold out a significant part of the Hungarian industry for two big waves of tobacco, put the country on IMF infusion, and even pushed the government debt to the sky. And these days, they refer to the returning protagonists as professionals, it's a joke! Migration has been discussed here many times. With no bones, the left voted for everything that goes against the country's interests. They voted for the quota, the facilitation of family reunification, and they attacked the border lock, even personally protested against it, just as their foreign allies and clients expected. Then let's see what international representation means to left-wing parties. Let's take a look at the last few months. The Hungarian candidates are constantly being tangled in Brussels. The Romanians are supported without question, but they are campaigning against the Hungarians. They also campaign to prevent the government from distributing EU funds. If this happens, respected left-wing parties and Jobbik, then Hungary will fall from resources. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Back off!]] And they will go to countries where there is no similar anti-tank work. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes.]] And that's not all. From Jobbik to the Gyurcsány party, they're all lobbying for it. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Don't explain...]] to transfer a lot of powers to Brussels at the expense of domestic decision-making. [[Interviews from Jobbik's benches, among other things:...you're a mobster! That's not true.]] Dear Jobbik MEPs, If that is not true, then why campaign for the Wages Union, the point of which is to hand over powers to Brussels? [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Why is it that you don't understand... the president is ringing the bell.]] This includes the definition of wages, pensions and justice. Putting powers out of our hands here would not be good for the country, would be harmful. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: You don't understand... you can't help it...]] And this is where we arrive until recently, the Momentum phenomenon. The first thing that this movement was made of nothing was to destroy the Hungarian Olympic tender. Finally, Paris won. We know that momentaries often go to Paris. The mystery of the relationship between the two is left to the readers and the viewers. The sequel wasn't milder. Since the Momentum has MEPs, they do practically one thing: they constantly torpedo the Hungarian candidates in Brussels, and between these actions they write to Washington and dream about NATO intervention. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: About what?]] Oh, my God. And on top of that, they set out on a campaign tour at the expense of Hungarian parties abroad; they campaigned for the RMDSZ rival, and then there was the thick skin to congratulate Kelemen Hunor on the result. Then they turned to Slovakia, there they campaigned for a Slovak party, while there is also a Hungarian party. And when they are questioned, the XXI. They're referring to a century. Dear House, This is not XXI. politics of the century, but anti-Hungarian politics; that is exactly what the left produced before and after the regime change. We do not know whose interest this is, but certainly not Hungary's. [[Interview from the governing parties' benches: Yes! The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It's not too late to pull the brakes! Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-18-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Ms Gabriella Selmeczi, from the Fidesz Group, asked for a speech before the agenda entitled Current Affairs. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-11-18-25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Worry and trouble are shared, but the joy is multiplied among the members of the populous family, written by Áron Márton. Ladies and gentlemen, The family-friendly turn in 2010 created a strong and extensive basis for building on the action plan for family protection in 2019 and 20. We really see the scale of the turn when compared with the balliberal governments between 2002 and 2010. Unfortunately, the framework for speaking before the agenda is not enough to demonstrate fully the actions of families in their operation between 2002 and 2010, so allow me to list only a few elements briefly. [[14.10]] In 2006, regular child protection support and family tax relief for parents with one and two children were abolished. Then the socioliberal governments reduced the family tax relief for children of three and more children, from HUF 10,000 per month to HUF 4,000 per child. They've reduced his time by a year. The upper age limit of the family allowance was reduced from 23 to 20 years. They smashed up the home-building program. This is what we can contrast with how national governance has been able to support families so far. In 2010, the duration of the plant was restored to three years. From 2011 we have introduced an enhanced family discount covering both one and two children. The job protection operation started in 2013. From 1 January 14, we introduced the ged extra, which makes it possible to take unlimited work from 1 January 16 to the half-year of the child. As of 2014, there has been the possibility of students or graduates. The first married person's discount is available from 15 onwards. From 16 to 19 the family discount was doubled in four steps for the two children, from HUF 4,000 a month to HUF 20,000. In 2017, the cradle system was transformed in order to make the supply available to families with small children in as many settlements as possible. In 2018, our actions for the year of families are as follows. We reduced the mortgage debt of families in the case of third or additional children, with one million HUF per child. We have allowed the half-life of the debt in the event of the birth or remission of the second child in the event of the birth of the third child, in addition to the suspension of the student loan of the mothers. We have introduced the cord programme, because for us all Hungarian children are a gift, to be born anywhere in the world, as the secretary of state used to say. From 1 January 2018, the period of payment of the diplomat increased by one year, thus reaching the child's age of two years. In particular, I would like to highlight the CSOK as the most important element of the government's home creation programme. By the end of September 2019, the number of families submitting applications exceeded 117 thousand, and the combined amount of state aid claimed for the applications amounted to HUF 353 billion. The CSOK thus helped to bring home nearly half a million people, and the claimants took 55,000 children. The family-friendly turn of government policy since 2010 has helped us to achieve positive results in terms of demographic indicators as well. Dear House, We're not stopping here. Cradle development is underway. From January, the four-year-old mother's absence and the expansion of the support system for diabetic children and families will be launched. In the days, there was also a world day for people with diabetes. In addition, there are legislative proposals in front of this House that provide the basis for the new measures of the Family Protection Action Plan, the expansion of grandparents' children and student children. We trust that everyone will also support this proposal in the final vote. In light of these, I appeal to the government representative, secretary of state, about how the family protection action plan has been evaluated so far and how they help children and their families living with type 1 diabetes. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-18-26	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Madam President, on behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Katalin Novák responds to her speech before the agenda. Here you go, Madam Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-11-18-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear fellow Members, I would also like to thank Mrs MEP for the opportunity to have the opportunity, from time to time, to report on the results of family policy to the wider public here, in front of the Parliament. Madam President, you have already said how the period between 2002 and 2010 and the period since 2010 differ in terms of support for families. Our basic principle is that we need a predictable, stable, long-term, constantly expanding, building family support system. We announced this family-friendly turnaround in 2010, and we have laid the foundations for this since then, and we are trying to expand it step by step. Congresswoman has also listed the steps that we have taken since then, so I would not go into them in detail, nor in terms of support for home-building, nor in terms of helping mothers with small children to work in addition to raising children, nor in terms of nursery development, not to mention the family tax scheme. I'd rather tell you three things that are going on right now. One of them is the legislative package in front of the Parliament, which includes, among other things, the expansion of your diplomat in the sense that if you use a graduate child and then have another child, you can claim this diplomat with the next child. In order to do this, we need a legislative amendment, and I need your support. Also before the National Assembly, there is the amendment of the working lawbook relating to the grandparents' children, which provides the basis for the fact that the grandmother or grandpa, who will use the grandparents' law after 1 January, will receive the same guarantees at work as the mother or father if they are in need. So I will also ask for the support of honourable fellow Members in this, too. The other actuality is related to the family protection action plan. On the question of the Member, it was part of our assessment of the results of the family protection action plan so far. I can say that all our expectations are exceeded by the interest in the family protection action plan. Now I can share with you the news that the number of young couples requiring baby shower support has exceeded 50,000. This means that we can help more than 100,000 young people with baby shower support since 1 July, so there are 100,000 young couples, 50,000 young couples who can receive a ten million forints or unrepayable support for having children and starting a family. This is an interest-free, free-use loan, which could be up to HUF 10 million, but if these young people take on children in the coming years, they will not have to repay this loan in whole or in part. So this makes it easier for hundreds of thousands of young people to start their lives and start their families. What is also new is that you have exceeded 20,000 families that require large family car shopping support. If we consider that there are at least three children in each of these families, then this is another 100 000 community, so again 100,000 Hungarians whose car purchases we have been able to help through car shopping support for large families. The results are also partly reflected in the demographic figures, because if you look at the latest marriage figures, you can say that in August, which is the last of our data at the 40-year peak, so in the last 40 years there has not been a month in which there would have been as many marriages as there were in August this year. This was already the case in July, and there was also a significant increase. Finally, I would like to share some thoughts about people with diabetes. November 14th was the World Diabetes Day. Most of the time we are talking about diabetics who are living with type 2 diabetes, which is really a preventable health condition or a disease, but there are children with type 1 diabetes, young people, adults, and we have decided to take positive steps for children with type 1 diabetes and their families, and in these, if necessary, I would also ask for your support. On the one hand, we have decided that in the case of a child's home care fee, families with type 1 diabetes children may benefit from this child, the child's home care fee or even the care fee if they are entitled to it. In the healthcare sector, we have raised the support for the various devices and added them to the general support group, the glucose monitor for measuring tissue sugar, and the insulin pump, thus providing children with the most modern care. There's a lot of work ahead of us. We want children with type 1 diabetes to really be able to participate in public education in kindergarten, even when they were in elementary school, because they live with type 1 diabetes. They would receive all the support, help, and be able to participate fully in the feeding. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We still need a lot of work to do that. I will ask for your support in this, as in every step of the family. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-18-28	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask my fellow Members to take their seats, to check that their cards have been properly placed in the voting equipment, and now I would like to ask Mr Dezső, Commissioner, to present the speakers who are not on the agenda. [[14.20]]
u2019-11-18-29	Dear Parliament, Lajos Rig, Jobbik; Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; László Hajdu, DK; István Apáti is independent. Speaking before the agenda on Tuesday, the following representatives came forward: Lajos Korózs, MSZP; Sándor Burány, Dialogue; Gergely Arató, DK; Tibor Bana, Jobbik; Péter Ungár, LMP; János Latorcai, KDNP; János Halász, Fidesz. On Tuesday, Tibor Bana, Jobbik, applied for a speech after the agenda. On Wednesday he applied for a speech after the agenda: Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP. On Thursday, Bence Rétvári, KDNP; Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP came forward after the agenda. On Friday, Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik, Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik, Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik applied for a speech after the agenda.
u2019-11-18-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! We now have a mandate certificate and an oath from our representatives. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the National Election Committee has issued a parliamentary mandate to Róbert Dudás, on the party list of the Jobbik Hungary Movement, due to the resignation of Mr Ádám Mirkóczki. The committee for the examination of mandates met before the meeting and examined the regularity of Róbert Dudás's credentials on the basis of electoral documents. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to President János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee, who will give the result of the examination of the mandate in accordance with the rules of the House 9. He shall report to the Parliament in accordance with paragraph 2 of Section 2. Here you go, Mr. President. You have the floor.
u2019-11-18-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, After Ádám Mirkóczki's resignation, a seat on Jobbik's party list was opened, as has already been said here, the National Election Committee has issued it to MEP Róbert Dudás. This Decision was notified on 7 November and the decision was final on 10 November. At today's session, the immunity committee examined the documents submitted and found them to be in order. The Member said that there was no conflict of interest in relation to him, so the immunity committee decided unanimously and proposed to the Parliament that Mr Róbert Dudás's seat be confirmed by the Parliament. Thank you.
u2019-11-18-32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a proposal amending the report on the outcome of the examination of mandates cannot be submitted. The mandate shall be certified by the Parliament without debate. Once again, I would like my fellow Members to take their seats and check their cards. I ask the Honourable Parliament to justify the mandate of Róbert Dudás. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament confirmed Róbert Dudás's mandate by 170 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik and MSZP.]] Dear Parliament, Now it is the solemn oath of the elected Member and the signature of the oath papers. I ask Mr Róbert Dudás to come to the centre of the Chamber and take his oath. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Believer to read out the text of the oath after the Member has entered the room and took his place behind the microphone, and I would ask the Honourable Parliament to stand up and listen to it. I'd like the men present in the gallery to rise. [[The people in the hall and the gallery stand up. Róbert Hondas steps into the middle of the room. Dezső gullible reads the words of the oath.]]
u2019-11-18-33	I, Róbert Dudás, pledge to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, to keep its legislation and to keep it with others; to exercise my office as Members of Parliament for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God.
u2019-11-18-34	Thank you very much. Have a seat. My fellow Members, the oath papers will now be signed. I would ask Mr József Attila Móring to prepare the oath papers for signature, and I would ask Mr Róbert Dudás, elected, to sign them. [[It's happening. Attila Móring, who signed the oath document, congratulates Róbert Dudás and gives a copy of the signed oath document. Róbert Dudás was first congratulated by Péter Jakab, then by Dr. Zita Gurmai, Szabó Timea, László Varju, Dr. László Lóránt Keresztes, Péter Harrach, György Balla and Imre Ritter.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of Parliament and myself, to congratulate you on the election of Mr Róbert Dudás, and wish you every success and strength in performing your work. Dear Parliament, I declare that the number of Members of Parliament is 196. We are now deciding on a proposal for a derogation from house rules. At last week's meeting of the House Committee, it was initiated that the National Assembly, on its meeting today, should depart from the rules of the House by saying that Varga Simeon is a Bulgarian ethnic advocate before making a decision on the agenda proposal, the protective shield of Christian Europe in relation to Hungarian-Bulgarian friendship is the resolution house rule 18. It may speak for a period of five minutes by the application of paragraph 5 of this Article. Proposal for a derogation from house rules H/8096. It was available to all of us on the House's website. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, the four-fifths of the Members present need to vote in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament to agree to a derogation from the house rules. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the derogation from the house rule by 172 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, As a derogation from the adopted house rules, Mr Varga Simeon's speech before the agenda of the Bulgarian national minority will take place in a five-minute period:, The Christian Europe's protective shield with the title "Hungarian-Bulgarian friendship." I give the floor to the Bulgarian speaker Varga Simeon, who describes the first sentences in his ethnic language and then translates them into Hungarian. There you go. You have the floor.
u2019-11-18-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Уважаеми господин Председател, Уважаеми Народно Събрание! Позволете ми да ви приздравяот името на българите в Унгария и involving моето име. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me to welcome you on behalf of the Bulgarians in Hungary and myself. In the lives of the two countries, there are several events linked to important common dates. One of the things worth mentioning, which, thanks to my presentation, was officially adopted unanimously in the autumn of 2016 by the Parliament of the two nations: this is the day of Hungarian-Bulgarian friendship, on October 19th, the Day of Szent János Csodávő Rilai. The other event, which is the occasion of my speech today, is the commemoration of the 575th anniversary of the Battle of Varna; the battle that is called the battle of the peoples, in which they fought together with the peoples of many countries to defend Christian Europe. On 10 November 2019 in Bulgaria, in the Varna Park, the Mausoleum of King Ulászló I., the 575th anniversary of the Battle of Varna was commemorated, where the tomb of Ulaszló I and the statue of General János Hunyadi are located with a protective shield. [[14.30]] The commemoration took place under the aegis of the Bulgarian-Hungarian friendship day, where the Government of Hungary and the Bulgarian community of Hungary jointly handed over a plaque in recognition of János Hunyadi's struggle for Christian Europe in Varna for representatives of the Bulgarian state. 575 years ago, on November 10, 1444, near Varna, the Christian allied army fought one of the last battles against Ottoman conquerors. In this battle, which was later referred to as the battle of the peoples, King Ulaszló I, along with ten thousand warriors of the Christian allied army, died, whose name remained in memory of the Bulgarians as Vladislav Varnencsik. More than ten thousand Bulgarian, Hungarian, Polish, Czech, Slovak, Croatian, Bosnian, Romanian, Rutin warriors lost their lives as a fight for the bloody people. This operation was the last strong armed joint European attempt to halt Ottoman expansion. In this experiment, many nations expressed a sense of opposition to Ottoman rule through a common struggle, courage, and self-sacrifice. Despite defeat, the goals of the Battle of Varna and the name of János Hunyadi remained positive forever in the memory of the successors. Christians from different nations have entered into an alliance to preserve European civilization. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] In honor of the battle, the I. Ulászló memorial park and museum in Várna were built in 1935 to commemorate the campaign against three countries, Bulgaria, Poland and Hungary against the Ottoman Empire, at the initiative of the Bulgarian party. The museum and memorial park commemorates King Ulaszló I and János Hunyadi's campaign to protect Christian Europe. In 1935 Hungarian and Polish military delegations attended the ceremony of the inauguration of the Mausoleum erected in memory of the heroes of the Battle of Varna in Bulgaria and Varna. Péter Matuska's then Sofia Hungarian envoy placed the wreath of Governor Miklós Horthy and the Hungarian government in the mausoleum in memory of the heroes who died on the battlefield in Varna. In addition, but not least, I would like to emphasise the importance of the fight of the peoples for the historic Bulgarian-Hungarian friendship. The joint commemoration of the battle in Varna is an indisputable proof that the feelings of deep gratitude for self-sacrifice continue to live for all those who have sacrificed their lives in this battle, and it is also an eloquent proof that the historic Bulgarian-Hungarian friendship has long gone beyond the close interstate framework. Today's historical and political events in the world not only in Hungary but also in Bulgaria and throughout Europe highlight the importance of Christian faith, friendship and cooperation in preserving and transferring our national identity to future generations; because there is a great need for joint cooperation in preserving our Christian values in today's Europe. Remember, hold together, carry the proud spirit of Europe in our hearts. Mr President, Dear Parliament, As a Bulgarian ethnic advocate, it is a great pleasure for me to be able to inform the Parliament about the series of celebrations on the occasion of the Hungarian-Bulgarian friendship day. Let me also thank all those who helped and supported the event. And allow me one last thought: next year, his 100th anniversary will be celebrated by the inclusion of diplomatic relations between the two countries. Thank you for your attention. Благодаря завашето внимание!
u2019-11-18-36	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. Dear Parliament, I welcome my fellow Members. The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time shall be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Dear Parliament, We now decide to make an urgent proposal. The author initiated the eighth amendment of the Fundamental Law of Hungary by submitting the necessary number of supporting signatures, T/7991 on the abolition of autonomous administrative judicial proceedings. The urgent hearing of this proposal. In its urgent proposal, the rapporteur proposed that the general debate on the proposal be held on tomorrow's meeting on the T/8023 amending certain laws on the subject of justice until the closure. Following the general discussion of bill No 32 of the House Rule. In order to make an announcement pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act, the committees may meet on tomorrow's sitting during the session of the Parliament. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the need for a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members present to order an urgent hearing. I ask the Honourable Parliament to order T/7991. The urgent hearing of this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament ordered an urgent hearing of the motion with 170 unanimous votes in favour. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a motion to amend the agenda. The Fidesz Group has proposed that the Parliament's proposal for a meeting of 18 November 2019-19-20-21-22 November and 25 November 2019 should be amended to amend the agenda so that, on Friday 22 November 2019, item 1, item 1, T-8000, between the Government of Hungary and the Secretariat of the Cooperation Council of the Turk Language States, on the publication of the headquarters agreement on the Hungarian Representation Office of the Cooperation Council of the Turk Language States. General discussion of bill No 1 until closure; Agenda item 2, Section XV of 2019 amending Act I of 2007 on the entry and residence of persons with the right of free movement and residence and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland in the event of an irregular exit from the European Union T/8027 on the amendment of the Act General discussion of bill No 1 until closure; item 3 - T/7686 on the announcement of an investment defence agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, of the other part. General discussion of bill No 1 until closure; item 4, item 4 - T/7688 between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Montenegro on the publication of the Protocol between the Hungarian People's Republic/Hungarian Republic and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia/Jugoslav Socialist Federal Republic/Jugoslav Federal Republic/Serbia and Montenegro on the roll-out of State in bilateral international treaties. General discussion of bill No 1 until closure; item 5 - T/8001. The Agreement on Economic Partnership, Political Coordination and Cooperation between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the United Mexican States, of the other part, on the third Additional Protocol to the Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Mexico, of the other part, on the publication of the Third Additional Protocol to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union General discussion of bill No 1 until closure; item 6 - T/8002 between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Kingdom of Bahrain on the publication of the Agreement on the visa waiver of their nationals with diplomatic, service and special passports. General discussion of bill No 1 until closure; on the 7th agenda item - T/8012 between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on the announcement of an agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on the settlement of questions concerning the needs of the diplomatic representation of the Republic of Bulgaria in Budapest General discussion of bill No 1 until closure; item 8. The T/8015 on the amendment of the laws implementing certain tax measures of the Programme for Competitive Hungary General discussion of bill No 1 until closure; item 9, item T/8021 on social security benefits and the coverage of those benefits General discussion of the legislative proposal No 10 until its closure; item 10 - LIII of 2017 on the prevention and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. Act T/8028 on the amendment of certain related laws. The general discussion of bill No 1 until closure. [[14.40]] Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, The decision on the resignation of Dr. Tünde Hando, President of the National Court Office will be taken. S/8095 submitted by the President You can find out more about this on the website. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the content of the proposal. Mr. Messenger!
u2019-11-18-37	Dear Parliament, The proposal is as follows. , 1. The National Assembly is CLXI of 2011 on the organisation and administration of the courts. Act 71. In the light of Article 2 (2) of the Act, Dr. Tünde Handó, President of the National Court of Justice, will resign on 30 November 2019. 2. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
u2019-11-18-38	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept S/8095. Proposal 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the personal proposal by 144 votes to five, with 16 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It follows a series of 5/2018 on the establishment of parliamentary committees, the election of its officials and members. A decision to amend a decision. S/8120 put forward by the President. You can find out more about this on the website. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the personal proposal put forward by the President.
u2019-11-18-39	Dear Parliament, The proposal is as follows. , 1. 5/2018 on the establishment of committees, election of officials and members of the Parliament Section 2 of the parliamentary decision is amended as follows: Parliament to the Legislative Committee Tamás Pintér Róbert Dudás (Jobik) is elected as a member of the Committee for his former vacant membership. 2. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
u2019-11-18-40	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept S/8120. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the personal proposal with 170 unanimous votes in favour. Dear Parliament, Now, at 2:43 p.m., we move on to interpellation and immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Tamás Csányi, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Innovation and Technology:. NER servants of the nation, or what is the government's purpose with the new VET law? It's an address. Mr Tamás Csányi has the floor.
u2019-11-18-41	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to briefly explore two issues concerning the new vocational training law: the issue of the removal of civil servant status and the question of raising wages. To date, it is not clear who the removal of civil servant status will affect everyday life. Who will expect this status to be to some extent protected to cease? Is it just the instructors or the teachers of public knowledge? Whose share will then be the maidhood and total vulnerability? The new VET Act in its current form does not make it clear on this, so please do so now. Another important area is wages. Since 2014, the screening fund has remained unchanged: HUF 101 500, the minimum wage at that time. In 2015, this fund was frozen at this level despite promises. Meanwhile, the minimum wage increased by more than HUF 10 thousand each year, so in 2019 it was 149 thousand forints. It is not difficult to calculate that, by adjusting the projection fund to the minimum wage at all times, a beginner teacher with a college degree would take 268,000 forints home today. On the other hand, the tragic reality is that the teacher's wage table does not reach the minimum wage, so it should be added to 195 thousand forints on the basis of this example. With all due respect, this means that a beginner educator takes home as much as a qualified cleaning lady. And, of course, it also means that a beginner teacher earns 73,000 forints a month in 2019 less than he deserves. That's 37 percent, and you're talking about an average 30 percent wage increase, which means you're willing to give less than your colleagues would. And it's all set as a huge achievement, Mr. Secretary of State. You're talking about a lease deal in the institutions, but have you thought this through? Imagine a wage negotiation when the teacher hits the principal's desk, and his work is worth a much higher hourly rate than what he's been paid on the payroll. Where appropriate, let's say he teaches mathematics or a foreign language, which is known to be lacking in the pedagogical society. So what does the director do to meet the expectations? Will you give him the raised hourly fee? Will you give him an extra source? You didn't. Then how will this serious problem be solved? Unfortunately, the answer is very simple: it will be a redeployment; in Hungarian: it will take it away from another colleague, who will, say, beat the table less or do less extra work at school. Unfortunately, it is no longer a question of taking on extra tasks by a teacher, but of how much. Off hours, of course. So the status quo that was still in place in the institutions is falling, since most of the time everyone could take home the wages they had graded for their work. But now you're kicking it all out: you're putting an element in the system that generates wage tension, you're turning a colleague against a colleague. They are digging new trenches among the members of the aging educator society, which is already overwhelmed to the extreme, with premeditated intent. So the question is right: what is the government's purpose in the new vocational training law? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-18-42	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Tamás Schanda responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-11-18-43	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I request, both on behalf of myself and the government, that teachers be called maids by you or by anyone. [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks.]] I believe that this minimal respect can be expected even from the servants of Ferenc Gyurcsány. [[An uproar in Jobbik's ranks. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Intercom from Jobbik's line: Big vest!]] You are now working in exchange for the long-awaited power of those who betrayed the teachers. [[Intruder from Fidesz: That's right!]] In Jobbik, you gave up your former principles and joined forces with those who took a month's salary from teachers, bankrupted education and closed many schools under their disastrous governance. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Socialist-liberal education policy has failed badly in Hungary. [[Zoltán Balczó: The question! Dr. Brenner Koloman: You've been steering two thirds for ten years, my friend, talk about that.]] Honourable Congressman, The Fidesz-KDNP government appreciates educators, which is confirmed by the measures taken so far. With the renewal of vocational training, we will take further concrete steps to raise the financial value of workers in the field and the quality of education. In Austria, vocational training will be better, more flexible, more practical, and the wages of instructors in vocational training will increase, and students in vocational training will receive scholarships. More than 32,000 teachers in vocational training will increase their wages by an average of 30 percent from July 2020, to which the budget will spend HUF 35 billion annually. A more flexible system for determining the wages of teachers in vocational training will be established, in which no one will suffer worse. One of the objectives of the VET bill is to adapt the legal relationship and working conditions to the labour market situation. This will allow a wider range of professionals to be involved in education. Our aim is therefore to create a new employment and qualification system, which is specifically based on the specific characteristics of vocational training, which allows wage pay to be adjusted to market wages. [[14.50]] Changing the legal relationship will not have adverse consequences, as it means greater, competitive and motivating wage increases and opportunities to be removed from the scope of the Public Employee Act. Honourable Congressman, The increase applies to everyone who teaches in vocational training, i.e. public education teachers, raising the hourly rate of clockworkers. The average increase will be 30 percent, but it is possible to make a larger difference in the case of the best performing teachers, who mainly teach professional subjects. Thank you for your attention and for accepting my reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-18-44	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2019-11-18-45	Dear Secretary of State, Divide et impera, as a single shining survival mechanism, is being sprung from your intentions and this gibberish we've heard. The educator society is dedicated to giving the next generation, which is our future, the right foundation, so that we, you, too, will find sufficient support in them as we grow old. Therefore, teachers should be valued both financially and morally, but unfortunately we do not see that happening. You of the nation's day laborers, yes, you want to create NER servants, you want them to sign a blank cheque, and just as they can't accept that attitude from you, I can't accept your answer either. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-18-46	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 113 votes in favour, 42 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, István Hiller, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources with the title "The Kindergartens, the Office and maturity." Congressman, Mr. Vice President, you have the floor.
u2019-11-18-47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! In recent weeks, much has been said about the idea and the likely plan to change the definition of school maturity. Luckily, all this has not been too complicated and over-bureaucratized, it is a question of determining the maturity of the school in Hungarian, so that the child remains in the kindergarten for another year. It is, therefore, that a discussion took place at the parent's suggestion or request, with the participation of the kindergarten psychologist, and at this meeting, it was based on a kindergarten agreement whether the six-year-old boy or little girl would stay in kindergarten or in county school for another year. The plan that you've been hearing a lot about lately would put an end to this system. Astoundingly for me, the parent must go to the office, to the Education Office, to the central authority, and then the people of the office, the experts asked, will decide the smallest on the basis of documents, medical records, and requests from a distance. If the parent refuses to accept the decision of the high office in the case of his own child, then he can finally bring an administrative action against his own child, where justice will decide his child. Do you really believe that thousands of parents can expect the most appropriate decision to be made in the case of their child, their six - year - old daughter, or their little boy, from the faceless and completely unknown official guard? In addition, it is known that the regulation on this will be published sometime in the middle of December by the fact that parents have until 15 January next year the right to contact the Education Office about their own child. Think of the life situation where, in addition to the Christmas tree, a father and mother on the website of the Education Office fill up their six - year - old child with documents, applications, medical records, and then, in the first days of the new year, excitedly await the decision of the office completely unknown to them to continue their discussion by going to court about their own child. Let's face it, it's so yelling nonsense. With all due respect, I would like to ask you that you plan to change the current rules on the establishment of school maturity. Do you really intend to introduce that parents should go to the Education Office? As a parent, do you consider this plan to be good? Would you like to have your child's documents and artifacts uploaded to the Office's website under the Christmas tree? I look forward to your reply.
u2019-11-18-48	Thank you. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-11-18-49	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The government assumed that it was in the best interest of the children. Honourable Member, I think you know and know the practice of allowing children with similar skills, children with similar abilities in certain parts of the country, in certain schools, in certain kindergartens, in certain settlements, to be held back in kindergartens for another year, and in other areas of the country, children with the same level of development and the same competence were allowed to attend schools. What's the date of school maturity? If you look at the OECD, the list of the most advanced countries, where the year is proposed, you can see that it occurs at the age of five, six and seven. In most countries, the same age as Hungary is typical, in 26 OECD countries the age of six, and primarily in the Anglo-Saxon countries, there is a school obligation of a lower age and a primary school starting date. In general, the average date of school maturity is defined in all developed countries at the age of six, as in Hungary. The new system, of course, in cases where the child's degree of development, the child's interest would not indicate that he should go to school at the age of six, it is possible to achieve a one-year deferral. So please do not upset parents that it will not be possible for children who are not schoolchildren at the age of six to go to school at the age of seven, because this will be possible. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: And who decides?]] But let us see what is in the interest of children. Is it in the interest of children to be 6 in the first class, 7 in the same age group, and 8 in the same grade, and as is often the case now, children are even two years apart in the first class? Is that a good thing or a bad thing? It's obviously harder for the teacher here, and it's harder for the eight-year-old, because the six-year-old may be slower than he is, and it's hard for the six-year-old, because the eight-year-old who gets into the first class is obviously moving faster, so he feels behind. But he's not behind, he's only in the position, he's got the knowledge that an average six-year-old has, but because of some different practices, he's sometimes got eight-year-olds with the six-year-olds, because he's allowed to be a year-loser, and he's a year-old in kindergarten, and he's eight-year-old in the same first class. Obviously, it is in our interest that all first class students begin their studies with about similar degrees of development and intellectual abilities. And not with this measure, honourable Member, but with the introduction of compulsory pre-schooling from the age of three years a few years ago, precisely so that anyone who is already missing at the age of three can be compensated by the kindergarten; in kindergarten, the lag that he may have suffered in the first three years of his life can be compensated for in the next three years in kindergarten education. That is why we said that many opposition politicians laughed or did not take seriously that kindergarten years should also be preschool years, preparing students for school. That is why we said that from the age of three we should introduce the kindergarten, and obviously we will also build new kindergartens. Honourable Congressman, Who is mature and who is not, will be told on the basis of uniform protocols and professional standards, if necessary, with the involvement of experts, such as teachers, psychologists, medical teachers, consultants, or doctors, or in the knowledge of the kindergarten development log, precisely so that those who are school-educated and who are not school-ed should not enter school at the age of six. But it is not good for anyone if the child is not in the kindergarten or in the school according to his age and abilities, nor is it good to measure the average six - year - old that someone wants to enroll the child in the first class, but to see that if the others postpone, then I too will postpone, so that the physical or spiritual development of my child is not delayed compared to the deceivers. It is in the interest of the child and not in the interests of the institutions on this issue. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-18-50	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Mr. Congressman, Mr. Vice-President, to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-11-18-51	Dear Secretary of State, First of all, thank you for giving me a professional response. Secondly, I have to say that our professional opinions are in complete conflict. You know, the protocols are uniform, and the kids aren't. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: That's right!]] [[15.00]] This is just that there is not usually a child, but there is a child in Nagykanizsa, Mátészalka or in Budapest, in the V. district. This is to be decided by an ex officio, based on a uniform protocol, how the three six-year-old boys or little girls living in the three mentioned cities will not be able to do so. To be clear: we are talking about the fate of 40,000 Hungarian children in one year, each of them has a father, mother, we hope, one or more of his brothers who we are talking about this year are more than 100,000 Hungarian citizens. That's why I'm asking you not to unify them. It's not like anyone who doesn't get a strudel is just... What's the proverb? [[Defiance and intervention among the opposition: Anyone who does not act at once will not get a shambles for the evening!]] Anyone who doesn't act at the same time doesn't get a strudel tonight thank you for your interest in understanding that. [[Delightfulness and applause in the ranks of the opposition. The president's ringing the bell.]] The point is, I don't accept the answer. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] With all due respect, I'm asking you to change this. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-18-52	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply 110 yes, 46 with no vote and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Mr László Varju, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. Mr László Varju has the floor.
u2019-11-18-53	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Mr Secretary of State, I am sure you will be able to discuss it with the Minister of Finance, because you mentioned earlier that the government is looking at the future of children and serving their cause, so please help us now not to repeat last week's reply, because with the insolence you spoke of for five minutes last week, and you refused to make it clear that this is, by the way, a solution for children's affairs, which can be served, you continue to protest, protest, and keep secret. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári's name.]] You're gonna get this sooner or later, aren't you? I would just like to remind the Secretary of State that the Democratic Coalition has brought a lawsuit against Lőrinc Mészáros's academy, asking for the accounting of the Tao subsidies, this case has gone all the way to the Curia. The decision was made: these data, copies of accounts and contracts should have been published by this foundation. You have contributed to the fact that this... and quite precisely helped to prevent it by not recognising that this is public money, and that its fate is of public interest, while these data have been requested to the Ministry for a reasoned reason, and these documents have been hidden by the Ministry. So I'm going to ask the Secretary of State again: how much money can the Foci Academy not account for because they're so desperate to hide data of public interest? What would come out of the documents personally about the Prime Minister, without whose approval you would hardly dare to play, "Mrs. Mate, where are the scissors?" [[Dr. Pál Völner: Gyurcsány with you!]] You hide the papers. What prevents you from being able to complete the alleged investigation for two years, to get to the bottom of it, and to submit to the judgment that the Curia has already made, and even to prevent the execution of its actions? You obviously hide these data of public interest because the Foci Academy cannot account for this amount, and there is only one reason for that: for some reason you are protecting the famous and notorious supporter of the Foci Academy, Viktor Orbán, but otherwise you should have published them a long time ago. Secretary of State, answer these questions, why they keep secrets and why they hide these papers. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of DK, MSZP.]]
u2019-11-18-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-11-18-55	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We have heard you for five minutes, Congressman, talk about transparency, not secrecy, about the public, but you know, when it comes to Olga Kálmán's job and his salary, then suddenly the Democratic Coalition has become a set of views and arguments, and then it doesn't talk about transparency or publicity, but then suddenly they start to keep secrets, honourable Member. Not to mention that when a law firm is asked in the districts or settlements you run in the matter of transparency to review the municipal documents of the municipality for the sake of transparency, to review the office, a person who was sentenced at the beginning of the two thousand years to four months for tax fraud and forgery of private documents. So you think it's the truly credible scanner who already has at least one second final conviction. And you wrote in your written text, honourable Member, that if there were to be an office fire, it would be strange for a party in your office to have an office fire and, therefore, they said that their financial statements had been destroyed and that they would later not be able to come before the public or the authorities, honourable Member. So I think it would be good if, when it comes to your affairs, you spoke at least so much for transparency, publicity, access to documents. Even now is an opportunity, honourable Member, to present the data on the Municipality of Budapest that you have so far hidden. On the other hand, what you are criticizing is a fully legal procedure, a procedure in accordance with the law. It is precisely intended to ensure that all subsidies from Tao are used in a regular manner. The 2011-2015 period of support was reviewed in the case of the investigation, the Foundation for the Education of the Felcsút Reinforcing Foundation, by the sports development programmes. You are also familiar with the 107/2011. a government decree, which includes the possibility of a follow-up, which was ordered by the Ministry of Human Resources at the end of 2017. Here, it examined possible overlaps between visual team support and direct budget support, whether this is entirely regular or not. I think it is in your best interest and in everyone's best interest to be able to conduct such tests; I would be surprised if you were against such regularity tests. Therefore, the Government Decree of 15/C. § 3 of the Act was followed by a follow-up check, which was extended, and then by the same regulation 15/C. § 6 states that the monitoring and investigation of closed sports development programmes continued, precisely because it examined the implementation of the use of the facilities for community purposes, which is also, I believe, an important and legitimate goal for everyone. These were the reasons why these documents were examined by the EMMI, which I think are the legal regulations which are acceptable to everyone, and which are exactly the guarantee, honourable Member, that all forints that we pay for sports subsidies should be properly washed, not in combination with other subsidies, but in isolation and in line with the original goal, I believe that this is in the interests of all of us. And, honourable Member, after the lawsuits are over, and after these investigations are over, of course, if these documents are returned to the foundation, then, in accordance with the court's decision, which ordered the foundation to hand over the documents to you, he will hand over the documents to you, but as long as the documents are not physically with him, he has obviously not been able to deliver them to you. But with regard to Kálmán Olga's salary, this is an opportunity for the public to come up with some data now, Congressman. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-18-56	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. I'll ask the congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-11-18-57	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, as the champion of the Tao lie and futility, it is time to prove that this money has actually been spent properly, so on the papers you have hidden two years ago, which have been carried out under a government decree and carry out the follow-up that you made the day before the judgment. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes.]] which has announced and stated that Tao is a public money, and you have thus freed the foundation from the situation of having to account for it, and therefore, my dear Secretary of State, what you are saying is a smokescreen instead of transparency, and your response is therefore unacceptable. That's why I think, and I'm only suggesting to you, as soon as possible, the two years that have been spent or spent doing follow-up checks, finishing up and issuing documents. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the lines of DK, MSZP and Dialogue.]] [[15.10]]
u2019-11-18-58	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 110 votes in favour, 43 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. The water sector is on the brink of collapse. Why isn't the government doing anything? It's an address. Congressman László Keresztes has the floor.
u2019-11-18-59	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, This topic, the extremely critical situation in the water sector, is not the first time I have brought to Parliament, and I will repeat these speeches every time until we see, on the part of the government, some effective action or at least an intention to take this crisis seriously. The problem, I think, is well known to all of us: there is simply no resources that the people responsible for the service need to continue to provide the most important public service in the coming years, i.e. drinking water and sanitation. The Hungarian Water Utility Association estimates 1500 billion, and the Association of County Citys estimates the amount of HUF 3000 billion that, over a 15-year period, does not exist beyond the existing resources in order to achieve the various replacements, maintenance and constructions. On the other hand, the reconstruction fund for water utilities will be only HUF 1.5 billion in the next year's budget, like this year. Unfortunately, we can see that since 2012, the number of water failures has doubled, and the network loss is set to 25 per cent by professionals, so this proportion of drinking water produced does not reach consumers, simply because of bad pipe networks. We also know that the proportion of water systems with a proper rating has now fallen below 20 percent. We also know the other problems, the huge shortage of professionals and the rest, all of which are affecting the sector. I have questions for a member of the government who will now be competent to answer that question. The government estimates the amount based on a summary of rolling development plans, which is missing for 15 years beyond the existing resources so that these maintenance and replacements can be completed? What sources of tender can the municipalities expect in most cases? This will be done every year by finding these missing amounts from a tender source. Exactly what source of funding can the municipalities concerned expect from which these necessary resources can be provided? What realistic, comprehensive strategy and plan does the government have to deal with this crisis in some way? I think that the government does not belong to opposition representatives at last with a clear response, but to all Hungarian people and professional organisations, what can be expected of the very serious crisis in the water sector. Thank you.
u2019-11-18-60	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Tamás Schanda responds to the interpellation. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-11-18-61	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, There is not a day of sitting here in the Parliament without the opposition collapsing in any sector. However, what a surprise it always is, week after week. This is no different now: I can assure you that, contrary to what you say, the Hungarian water utility system will not collapse. Because now Hungary has a government that won't let this happen. Ask your socialist allies what condition the water utilities were left behind after their catastrophic government! For the Balliberal governments, all they could do, had misplaced, privatised, and foreign companies, instead of developing, let the utilities be destroyed, while the money taken from the families was taken out of the country as a profit. Honourable Congressman, Fidesz-KDNP is working with you to improve the quality of life of Hungarian families and improve public services. When we took over the government in 2010, the Hungarian water utility system had been missing maintenance and upgrading work for nearly four decades. The depreciation process started in the 1980s, i.e. in the Kádár system, which we now have a lot of work to do. Our goal, and it cannot be different, is that everyone in Hungary has access to clean drinking water. Therefore, we are doing everything we can to solve decades of problems in the utility network and thus in the water network. We started preparing the work already in 2011, by creating a legislative environment in which the necessary data are assessed by the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office. This measure established the future planning, the identification of the points of intervention and the need for resources. In the budget, we have created a separate, separate reconstruction fund. Based on the experience of the use of resources so far and the plans for the next EU budget cycle, which are still under construction, it will be possible to decide on the exact amount available in the Fund. The Ministry of Innovation and Technology announced the public reconstruction fund for water utilities. The aim is to implement the reconstructions set out in the rolling development plan, approved by the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, and to improve the technical status of water utility systems. The tender option will continue to be available to the municipalities that need it. However, there was also an additional call for proposals for local authorities to improve the energy efficiency of the water utilities. This support provided an opportunity to obtain energy-saving equipment. Honourable Congressman, Access to healthy drinking water is a fundamental human right in Hungary, so the Ministry of Innovation and Technology is committed to developing and modernising high quality drinking water. We are working to reduce water loss and we also consider it important to promote innovation technologies in the water utility sector. Please accept my reply. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-18-62	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-11-18-63	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. I must say, Mr Secretary, that your answer was both insufficient and, on the other hand, shameful. You dared to say in your speech that opposition representatives are not working for the benefit of the Hungarian people. You have the right to make such a statement, but I think you should be ashamed as Secretary of State to make such a statement. This is unworthy, I think, in the Hungarian Parliament he makes such a statement. The other is that you abuse the opposition: I always, every time I talk about this problem, draw attention to the fact that this is not the brainchild of the opposition parties that I have said here, but the most important issues of the professional report published every year by the professional organization, the Hungarian Water Facility Association are those that I bring to Parliament. You specifically blame the governments and political forces of the period before the Fidesz government. You are partly right, obviously the flaws and deterioration of the water utility system has not just begun, but since 2010, but the number I quoted has doubled since 2012 is your responsibility. And you have made the system even worse, making it more difficult for the water companies to operate by introducing the sector utility tax. Of course, I cannot accept your reply, since it has not attempted to answer any of my specific questions beyond political abuse.
u2019-11-18-64	Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 110 votes in favour, 38 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Sándor Burány, a representative of the Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance: It's an address. By responding to the interpellation, Prime Minister Miklós Kásler, Minister of Human Resources, who is competent and competent according to the subject. At the request of Minister Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, he responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-11-18-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In Hungary, poverty in old age is growing dynamically: in 2014, there were 4.6 percent and 9.8 percent of the number of poor people over 60 in 2017, respectively. In the course of a few years, your governance has doubled the poverty rate of the elderly. If we add that nearly 18,000 pensioners do not even receive the minimum pension, the HUF 28 500, and the monthly allowance of almost 30,000 pensioners is below HUF 50,000, then we can say that the situation is tragic. [[15.20]] In fact, a total of 48,000 pensioners live in Hungary with a pension of less than 50,000 forints. Did any of you try to make a living with that kind of money or double it? Because I might add that you will receive an amount of less than HUF 100,000 from month to month, almost 580,000 pensioners. Compared to this, the pension minimum has not increased in Hungary for 11 years. Recent news, I would just like to say to Mr Secretary of State that from 1 January 2021 at the current rate, a minimum pension of approximately HUF 418,000 will be granted to a pensioner who has worked at least 35 years and is single. As I said earlier, Hungary has not seen an increase in the pension minimum in 11 years. The government would have had the opportunity, but it seems that it has no intention of raising the low-value pensions substantially above inflation, although the price of food is well above inflation: according to the latest KSH data, the price of food increased by 5.4 percent in October, including the price of pork by 15.5 percent, the price of Paris, sausages by almost 11 percent, and the price of bread by nearly 7 percent. Dear Secretary of State, What we see from these figures is that you are idly watching pensioners become increasingly poor in Hungary today, doing nothing to raise minimum pensions as well. If not to the level in Germany, because that would obviously be an unrealistic expectation, but it would have done something to improve this tragic situation in recent years. You did not do this, so I have only one question, Mr. State Secretary: when will the Hungarian government finally start catching up on the humiliatingly low Hungarian pensions below the minimum living standards? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2019-11-18-66	Thank you. Dear Parliament, By responding to the interpellation, Prime Minister Miklós Kásler, Minister of Human Resources, who is competent and competent according to the subject. State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation at the request of the Minister. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-11-18-67	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In recent years here in Parliament, honourable Member, you would have had the opportunity seven times to support with your own vote the reduction of the tax on basic foods by Parliament. You were talking about the price of various basic consumer goods that pensioners buy. From this week, as I recall, you didn't come in four times, once you pressed maybe a "no" button and twice a stay or vice versa, but you didn't once support a reduction in the VAT on basic foods. On the other hand, as Secretary of State, he was part of a government that increased the cost of rent fifteen times, and there you always somehow supported it and took a monthly pension from Hungarian pensioners; he did not oppose it, honourable Member. After a few years, he stands up and says why pensions are not higher, why the cost of living is not lower. If you might have supported the reduction of basic food VAT, if you might have opposed the withdrawal of a month's pension, if you might have opposed raising the cost of the pensioner's rent fifteen times, perhaps many would be in a better position. But let's look at the number you're using, honourable Member, and with which your fellow Members have been magical in the last few weeks. There are several indicators that are used internationally in relation to the income situation of pensioners. What you quoted is the relationship between the median income and pensions. This is about the fact that incomes in Hungary are indeed rising very steeply. It is not that pensions would be reduced, as pensions have increased. You said it was better to make a living than it was 134 thousand forints. The average pension in 2010 was 97 thousand forints, which now reaches 134 thousand forints with more than 33 percent increase, and you say that it is easier to make a living out of 97 thousand than 134 thousand. So: this indicator does not show what you said about increasing or reducing poverty among pensioners, but what the ratio of pensions compared to the median income is. You said how good it would be to have that ratio, like in Germany. You say that the level of 10 percent poverty is too high compared to the median income. In Germany it is 18.2 percent. You would follow the German model, where the level in Hungary is 18.2 percent. I stress that this does not concern poverty, but is primarily about income, and that the current rising income will result in higher pensions in the future, so there will be more pensions for pensioners in the coming years. What is really the poverty indicator, however, is the number of people over the age of 65 who have a so-called deprivation rate, so how many are exposed to deprivation, who can't replace a washing machine if it breaks down, who can't buy a meat meal every two days, who doesn't have money for a vacation, who doesn't have money for rent or rent. In view of this, in 2010, this rate was 16.2 percent among pensioners, now 5.6 percent, so a third of them are exposed to deprivation. And if you look at the whole group, honourable Member, the aspect you mentioned and the two other aspects of deprivation, namely the number of those who are exposed to any deprivation or any risk of poverty, it has also decreased by one third in Hungary from 21,3% to 14.9 percent, honourable Member; precisely because we have not only maintained the purchasing value of pensions in recent years, but we have also raised 10 percent, and the Hungarian economy is performing so that we can now pay a pension premium to pensioners, a rising pension premium every year. And we were able to give Elizabeth's voucher to pensioners three times, and we were able to give her a 9 thousand-forint certificate. Do you understand, Congressman? We didn't raise rent, we gave the Hungarian pensioners a certificate. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] This is the difference between you and our policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-18-68	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-11-18-69	Secretary of State, I will help you: throughout Europe, the proportion of people exposed to poverty is calculated as I quoted in my interpellation. Unfortunately, unlike your words, this is defined as 60 percent of the median income. During your administration, the number and proportion of pensioners exposed to poverty on this basis have doubled. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The median income has increased!]] And I will help you, Secretary of State, it was the MSZP-SZDSZ government that introduced the 13th month pension. I will help you, Mr Secretary: you have promised even the 14th month's pension, but you have not even introduced it once, not even the 13th month. I'll help you, Mr. Secretary. It was your government that hasn't raised the minimum pension in 11 years. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: He raised his pension every year!]] I admit that Mr State Secretary is trying to prepare himself for the opposition's activities, but here in Parliament we should report on the government's activities. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Pathetic!]] Mr. Secretary, get on your feet. Oh, and one more thing, bring him a light. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-18-70	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 113 votes in favour, 36 against and 1 abstention. [[Several Members are leaving the meeting room. Noise.]] Dear Parliament, Sándor Kovács, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: This year, pensioners receive a pension premium for the third time! It's an address. Mr Sándor Kovács has the floor. I would ask my fellow Members, who might leave the room, to do so quietly. Thank you. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-11-18-71	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Thanks to the measures taken by the government, the Hungarian economy is performing better year after year. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Long live the party!]] 2019 is the third year in which pensioners receive a pension premium thanks to the recovery of the economy. According to the legislation, pensions can be granted if GDP growth is expected to be higher than 3.5 percent in a given year, and this year is 4.6 percent. We would like to give as many of them as possible, because since 2010, it has been clear that the government appreciates and respects pensioners. Thanks to successful economic policy, pensioners will therefore receive a pension premium for the third time this year, which arrives or has arrived with the benefit in November. The purpose of the Fidesz-KDNP fraction is for the elderly to feel the growth of the economy, as they are the ones who have carried this country on their backs for decades. To this end, pensioners will receive an average pension premium of around HUF 20,000 from the postman, which is the highest amount so far. About 2.5 million beneficiaries receive the pension premium from the postman together with their regular pension, and those who receive the payment in the bank account received it on 12 November. [[15.30]] At the same time as the November pension, in addition to the pension premium, they will receive a pension supplement during the month of November. The expected increase in the annual pensioner consumer price is 3.4 percent in 2019. Given that in January 2019 pensioners received a 2.7 percent increase, the November supplement is therefore 0.7 percent, which means that 8.4 percent of the monthly benefit is granted to those who also received the January increase for the whole year. The average amount of the supplement is HUF 10,000. Dear Secretary of State, In view of all this, I respectfully ask who are entitled to a pension premium, a one-off allowance and a pension supplement this year, and what amount is available in the budget for the payment of the extra money. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-18-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-11-18-73	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, an average of HUF 33 500 will be the surplus that pensioners will now receive this month compared to what the postman has brought in the previous months. In November of this year, 2.6 million people will receive this additional benefit, and the budget will spend HUF 77.5 billion on it, so much more we can refer to pensioners, or the postmen will take out so much more. If I look not only at this one-time opportunity, but also at how much the budget has paid for various additional benefits, Elisabeth's voucher, pension supplement or pension premium since November 2016, we can see that the surplus of HUF 273 billion is what we have been able to provide to pensioners as a supplement, in addition to the ordinary pension and the annual normal pension increase. It is also important that we have set up a system in the pension calculation scheme that does not allow the pension to be inflated. We remember when previous governments gave us something, but then they removed the value of it so that there would be no surplus for the budget overall. We have created a system that if inflation is lower than planned, so there is a higher rate of pension increase than the price of articles purchased by pensioners, then this surplus will be paid to pensioners, staying with them not only in the year, but also in the years to come, so in this way pensioners will be the winners of this way of raising pension, structure of pensioners. If it is reversed and inflation is higher than inflation, pensions have risen at the beginning of the year, pensioners will receive it retroactively in the form of a pension supplement. This pension supplement is not only an important benefit in that year, but the one-twelfth part of the 12 months received in one sum, so the one-month part of it will be incorporated into the pension as of January of the following year. So they'll get it back to that year, and it'll be built into the retirement of the next year and the following years. So we have set up a guarantee system in which pensions cannot and cannot be reduced in terms of purchasing value of pensions. As a result, pensions have increased by 33 percent in recent years since 2010 and their purchasing value has also increased by 10 percent. We did this by saying that the opposition not only reduced pensions in 2015 when it took a month's pension from all Hungarian pensioners, but also did not support the introduction of women 40, to allow women to retire after 40 years of working and raising children. Now 200,000 to 250,000 ladies were able to make use of that opportunity. If the opposition could have made that decision, none of the people would have been able to live with it. Also in the way in which the pension was calculated, which the opposition would have proposed, they would have received a lower pension of HUF 5,000 a month for years. Not to mention that before 2010, the opposition wanted to introduce a property tax, which only the Constitutional Court could prevent, and here, in Parliament, Fidesz-KDNP opposed. The opposition parties raised once again the proposal of the property tax in the capital campaign. Well, that tax should have been paid over HUF 30 million, including the pensioners. Today we can see that if someone goes up to the real estate ad pages, that every second advertisement, which is, say, about panel apartments, is already over HUF 30 million, four fifths of the brick apartments and nine tenth of the family houses are worth more than HUF 30 million. Thus, the vast majority of pensioners would not have been helped by the reduction of their rent, but should have been paid even for their property if the policy of Fidesz-KDNP and the decision of the Constitutional Court had not resulted in the annulment of this approved left-wing bill. But what we can see is that the left would've just sabotaged the pensioners by raising the rent, paying real estate taxes and taking a month's pension. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-18-74	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-11-18-75	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I think that this is the difference between one side of the horseshoe and the other side of the horseshoe, that the civilian government supported by the Fidesz-KDNP fraction [[Dr. László György Lukács: The Hungarian Nation has just written that you are not civil!]] take care of pensioners while the old left can only raise taxes or borrow loans in order to make pensioners worse. So, with all due respect, Secretary of State, I think that this faction, the group behind you, supports the pension increase, the pension premium, because pensions are important to us, not just in communication, but in real performance. I respectfully accept your answer. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-18-76	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Brenner Koloman, a representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: It's an address. By answering the interpellation, Prime Minister Péter Szijjártó appointed Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, who is competent and competent according to the subject. At the request of Minister Tamás Menczer, State Secretary, he responds. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-11-18-77	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The approach of government and foreign affairs to migration has rightly been extremely strong in recent years. Today, the subject has become the backbone of the mandatory Fidesz Propaganda, which everyone has to cancel. The migration, supported by Jobbik, was promoted first by Jobbik to establish a physical border seal, and the two thirds were secured by Jobbik to protect the physical border lock. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Gábor Vona did not quite say so!]] You are in countless ways and channels [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You did not vote for the amendment of the Constitution!]] I quote your election slogan, Mr. Secretary of State, from last year, Orbán or turban. Yet we are now talking about the establishment of a school in Budapest by one of Erdoğan's lobby organizations, the Maarif Foundation. I would like to point out that this organisation maintains 315 schools in 41 countries and that there is no such school in the EU except for Romania. It's not a coincidence, Mr. Secretary. The Vice-President of the Foundation is Osman Nuri Kabaktepe, who is the founder of a group of radical and terrorist groups with thousands of ties. So below the surface, the government, which represents itself as the protector of Christianity and Western civilization, granted an operating licence for such an organization in Hungary. If that wasn't enough, it might well be a mosque for the school in the future. By the way, last year, Austria, which you declared too liberal, shut down six of them, and repatriated 60 imams, because these mosques regularly held pro-Erdoğan gatherings and proclaimed radical Islamic teachings. I would like to point out that Jobbik is a national people's party. [[Dr. Attila Tilki: I'd like that.]] He has always advocated a balanced political and economic relationship with Turkey, but you have pushed it a little too far. But let's see what the underlying reason for this shift is. We believe that the eternal and indestructible friendship of two autocratic leaders, Viktor Orbán and Erdoğan, is behind this, which can overwrite all ideologies. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: No kidding.]] How is that possible? [[Dr. Attila Tilki:]] While the aim is to stop irregular migration, how can the school of a thousand foundations connected with terrorist organisations be invited with open arms? What could be the reason for this? You're probably getting something from Fidesz Erdoğan and the eastern despots like him? [[Noise from the Fidesz benches. Yeah, I'm sure.]] Or are you looking for your new allies, since you already think you're a high-ranking EPP politician and you want to drive Hungary out of the EU? I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-18-78	Thank you. Dear Parliament, By answering the interpellation, Prime Minister Péter Szijjártó appointed Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, who is competent and competent according to the subject. Tamás Menczer, State Secretary, responds to the interpellation at the request of the Minister. I've said their comments twice. Please, Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. [[15.40]]
u2019-11-18-79	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, First of all, let me begin by saying that you are, otherwise, quite normal at committee meetings, and where else correct speeches are held. I don't know what happens to you when you come into this Chamber. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. Dr. Brenner Koloman: You don't have to qualify!]] has a bad effect on the height of the interior or other problems arise [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Answer, not qualified, Mr. State Secretary! You don't have to be qualified.]] But I don't understand why you're talking about seven snows here, Your Honour. [[Noise, rumble in the ranks of Jobbik. Interjection in the same place: You've missed the genre! The president's ringing the bell.]] House of Honor! Mr President, Although I am not instrumental to Jobbik's parliamentary attitude, I will try to continue. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Oh, we are so sorry! Noise.]] With regard to the school you mentioned, you deserve to be terrified of a school that has not yet begun its operation, honourable Member. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: You gave him permission! There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] He's gonna start with a prep class next year. Otherwise, it will fully comply with Hungarian legislation, with the Hungarian director, in accordance with the Hungarian education system. As you mentioned, the Maarif Foundation maintains 315 schools worldwide [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: School!]] [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: School!]] , and it is not true what you said, you are maintaining an institution in Germany, France, Austria and the United States with almost four (Dr. Brenner Koloman: School!) Just to stick to the specifics. Mr President, you have been kind to mention immigration. Speaking of immigration, it is well known that Jobbik is a pro-immigration association [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: What are you talking about?! Noise, rumble in the ranks of Jobbik. Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] a community of pro-immigration politicians. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] As all their allies are, by the way, pro-immigration and the entire opposition. You have not voted in favour of the amendment to the basic law that was extremely important in the fight against the compulsory resettlement quota. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: You did not vote for the amendment of the basic law!]] And by the way, you'd break down the fence, just like your favorite ally, Ferenc Gyurcsány, would. Honourable Congressman, By the way, I am well aware of the chaos in Jobbik, as the press reads that before Jobbik, honourable Member, [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Worry about yourselves! Read the weekend Hungarian Nation!]] There's two ways to go. There is Ferenc Gyurcsány's marionette figure, Péter Jakab, who wants to bring Jobbiko closer to Ferenc Gyurcsány, and there is István Szávay who beat the Jews. [[Intercoms, noise in Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] Allegedly, you can choose from these two directions. So there is Ferenc Gyurcsány who destroyed the country, and there is the openly anti-Semitic István Szávay. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Mr President, is this not against the authority of the House? What's this? Dr. Csaba Gyüre: The House's authority, Mr. President.]] I wish you the best of luck with the election. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Noise, interruptions from Jobbik's ranks. Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's why you're going down!]]
u2019-11-18-80	Dear Parliament, Stay calm. The congressman has the right not to answer for him. Congressman, you have the floor in a minute.
u2019-11-18-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would think that I do not really respond to Mr. Secretary of State's hard-to-read ideas here. [[Interview from Fidesz: Say a simple yes!]] 'Cause I can't sink to that level. [[Noise, uproar in the ranks of the governing parties.]] However, I'd like to indicate that the National Security Committee has dealt with this matter. So you may be here now, but you know that, let's say, on my question, those concerned citizens of Budapest and Hungary have not been reassured that they are now seeing such a meme that Orbán is in the turban. So from now on, don't take Islamic immigration into your mouth, because you've become discredited! I would have expected a normal answer to that question from the Secretary of State, but I understand that if his vocabulary had been to give an answer beyond the vocabulary of sportsjournalists, [[Tamás Menczer applauds laughing: Well, that's great!]] So you can't do that, we know that from high-ranking diplomats we're also hearing what Foreign Affairs Secretarys are for. I don't accept the answer. [[Moore, a round of applause in the ranks of the Jobbik. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2019-11-18-82	Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer, so I ask you, you accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes in favour, 31 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, András Aradszki and Lőrinc Nacsa, representatives of KDNP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice:. What is the Government's position on the planned budget of the European Union? It's an address. Congressman András Aradski has the floor.
u2019-11-18-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, On behalf of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, I can say that, on the basis of the information that has come to us recently, the next budget of the European Union is unfair to our country and unacceptable to us. This proposal expects Hungary to suffer a maximum reduction, i.e. 24 per cent, in terms of EU funds in the next seven-year cycle starting in 2021. Similarly, the budget proposal of the Finnish Presidency of the European Union is unacceptable to us. This would reduce the amount allocated to cohesion within development funds by some EUR 30 billion. Hungary would thus have significantly less cohesion resources than in the current period. There are at least four unfair points in the budget that need to be changed. These are the points: the system of refunds, the reduction of cohesion resources, budget rigidity and support for research and development. However, it should also be mentioned that in order to achieve the 2050 objective of carbon neutrality, resources are already needed in the next EU budget. Dear Secretary of State, The EU processes of the past period are about the Hungarian budget, including negative decisions affecting citizens' everyday life. We see that if the proposal of the European Commission, which is now leaving, is implemented, it would be a punishment both for our country and for the Eastern European region. This would happen at a time when, thanks to the Hungarian economy, EU funds are constantly expanding when the development of the region is finally forecasting the hope of catching up; this would be a punishment for all of us if the proposals were to be implemented in terms of the budget. New investments are coming in, new jobs are being created, sustainable development finally has its impact on a daily basis. This could be done, which would be ruined by the EU proposal if one of its current forms were to be implemented. That is why I ask the Secretary of State: at what stage is the planning of the common EU budget at present? What is it that we can accept, and what is it that we cannot, so that it is finally fair to Hungary? I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-18-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner. Here you go.
u2019-11-18-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Last May, the outgoing Juncker Committee presented its proposal for the EU budget for 2021-27, which is seriously problematic, politically motivated and unfair for our country and the Central and Eastern European region. At their meeting in Prague on 5 November 2019, the Heads of Government of the current 17 EU Member States called "Friends of Cohesion" adopted a joint declaration on the key aspects of the EU budget. At the summit Prime Minister Viktor Orbán identified four areas in which changes need to be made to ensure a fair and acceptable EU budget. Firstly, on the revenue side of the budget, transparency and substantial simplification are needed. In particular, the United Kingdom's system of unjustified corrections after brexit should be abolished from 2021 onwards, where richer net contributors contribute less to joint efforts than poorer Member States. Secondly, cohesion policy is not some kind of donation, but a continuation of the development of an internal market without barriers, and it is necessary to support the less developed not only for fairness but also for rational economic reasons. The majority of cohesion money spent in beneficiary countries will be returned to net contributors through increased investment and trade opportunities. Thirdly, the Juncker Committee's politically motivated proposal would significantly reduce the resources of cohesion policy and Hungary would suffer the greatest loss of 24 percent of the resources mentioned by the Member. [[15.50]] This cannot be explained either from an economic or political point of view, so it is completely unacceptable from the Hungarian side. Hungary should receive compensation and a number of proposals have been drawn up. Fourthly, it is unacceptable that the new implementing rules would impose a heavy burden on beneficiaries while increasing administrative expenditure. We are opposed to any restrictions that would restrict the room for manoeuvre of the Member States and reject further fattening of Brussels bureaucracy and the increase in central management programmes. Hungary also does not accept the introduction of any new conditions in relation to the rule of law, migration or the European Pillar of Social Rights as regards the conditions that further restrict national room for manoeuvre. Finally, it is an important issue of the budget's main amount, which the Commission also intends to reduce. While Europe is facing more and more challenges, it is not possible to ignore the long-term objectives, and it is not possible to achieve more from fewer sources. New challenges should not be financed at the expense of contract-based and well-established traditional policies. This is confirmed by the Prague Declaration of 5 November. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we do not want to give in to the efforts that would weaken the chances of Member States catching up with the best performers or the viability of the European agricultural sector. We urge that EU funds be focused on programmes of dubious value and results aimed at halting illegal migration, and not at integrating migrants. We reject the allocation of budgetary resources to the Eastern, Southern and Western Member States of the Union, as well as the reduction of the toolbox for protecting the Union's financial interests by circumventing the founding treaties into a political pressure tool. We would like to ensure that the Government remains firm in defending national and common European interests. I look forward to my response. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-18-86	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-11-18-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. If we can describe the budget proposal before us, then the words that come to mind are: narrowness, selfishness, double standards. You have quite rightly said, Secretary of State, that these cohesion and other EU funds are not free. With the opening of the market, the rapid privatisation process and the abolition of customs duties, Hungary paid a high price for these resources. Therefore, by accepting its response, KDNP supports the government in achieving a budgetary provision and policy that will better ensure Hungary's catch-up. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-18-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: - When do they realize that their actions against hospital infections are inadequate? It's an address. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor.
u2019-11-18-89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Last year there were 15 151 hospital infections, and 541 died from hospital infections. This is nothing more than the tragedy of Hungarian health care, in many ways. It is tragic, on the one hand, because the number of people who died from hospital infection increased by 23 percent compared to 2017. It is also tragic because although Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, had previously been outraged by his denial that more people would die from hospital infection than in a road accident, we can now treat this as a fact. We can also do so because there are 541 hospital infections in 567 car accidents that do not cancel all hospital infections to the center, and according to all sources, the real number of hospital infections is much higher than reported. Finally, it is tragic because it clearly shows that the government's actions against hospital infections are useless, since while the number of infections has not been substantially reduced, the number of deaths has increased by 23 percent. Instead of solving the problem, what was the government busy with? By suing the SAO and doing everything possible to ensure that the data on hospital infections are not comprehensiblely publicized to everyone, rather than facing the problem and choosing to develop a real solution. But the solution wouldn't be so complicated, Mr. Secretary. Health care should be properly financed. There should be a level of funding that will provide an opportunity to provide a sufficient amount of hand sanitizer in each hospital and not a third of what international organisations propose. In such a health care, hundreds of people would not die every year from a hospital infection, and ten thousand people would not die without their deaths. However, after the last nine years of Fidesz governance, it is clear that you do not have an interest in such a healthcare system. And this is a conflict between citizens and your government, because while citizens want to heal in public health that they pay for, you want people not to go to public health. That's why I'm asking you, Secretary of State, when will you finally realize that your actions against hospital infections were inadequate? How many more people have to die so that the medical wallet, including Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, will finally realize that in Hungary more people will die from hospital infection than in a car accident? What new steps are planned to reduce the number of people killed in hospital infections? I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-11-18-90	Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-11-18-91	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, So far, in Hungary, there has been only one government that has set itself the goal of fewer people entering public health institutions. This was your MSZP-SZDSZ government when you introduced the visit fee and introduced the hospital daily allowance, because this was your waiting list reduction program, so that if you have to pay someone to go to the doctor, there will be fewer people leaving, and this will reduce the waiting list. It was your health reform and hospital safes that were good at getting it. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In Hungary, data on hospital infections, which are transparent and understandable to everyone, are public. Every year everyone can see this on the website of the State Health and Welfare Centre. The TAS sued data from which some people could even conclude their health status. The government did not want to handle this, these so-called raw data, but only the data from which trends can be identified. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In an international system, in the nosocomial surveillance system, these data can be published in Europe, and Hungary is one of the most transparent countries with most data. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You always like to send Hungary to the end of the line, but also in this case Hungary provides data on one of the most hospital beds, proportionate to one of the most hospitals. We have countries with a higher population than we have fewer patient beds in this system. That's exactly why we did this, so we could do the best we could. If you look at this statement, in which you can read the data of 38 hospitals in Hungary about the number of infections associated with hospital treatment in Hungary, you can see, honourable Member, that it is 4 percent. If you look at the average rate in all countries, you can see that the European prevalence is 5.5 percent. So, compared to 4 percent of Hungary, 5.5 percent, so with hospital infections, a Hungarian patient is safer than an average European patient in an average European hospital, honourable Member. If you look at the international statement on the extent of infection in long-term care institutions, where patients have a longer rate of infection, you can see data here not from 38, but from 75 institutions in Hungary, you can see that there is 1 percent frequency, while on the basis of European data, the representative sample is 3.6 percent. If you look at the size of one of the most cited Clostridium difficiles In Hungary, the prevalence rate for this infection is similar to that of Finland or Germany in Hungarian hospitals. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and He said that Hungarian numbers are very bad and that we should spend more on health care. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You were the ones who spent less money on health, because during their governance, the OECD set out that you were the only EU country who reduced the percentage of per capita health spending, while all other countries had increased this proportion. [[16.00]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, over the past few years, we have taken a number of measures to prevent further infections, alcohol hand sanitizers and even local infection control committees, either in the case of minimum conditions, or in the case of the placement of new hand sanitizers, as well as in the case of several measures taken by the surgeons to combat pneumonia, bloodstream infection or drip infections or urinary tract infections. But if I look only at the EU programmes, we have started programs from which we can spend HUF 2.2 billion on this kind of infection control, precisely so that we can maintain this leadership and good role within the EU. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-18-92	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congresswoman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-11-18-93	Dear Secretary of State, Minimum conditions? Well, you have to make an appointment at the waiting list, Mr. Secretary. If you go to the hospital, take medicine, bandages, gloves and everything that's missing from hospitals. Secretary of State, a little more modesty. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Says the rat representative?]] You know, Mr. Secretary, on this subject. You know, 541! [[It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Do you understand, Mr. Secretary? Do you understand, congressmen, ladies? 541 people died of hospital infection, we're talking about 2018, we're talking about 19th of the 21st century. It's a century! [[Dr. Bence Révári: Third, as in the European Union! Less than in the European Union!]] We're not talking about dying from a serious surgery or a serious illness, we're talking about a hospital infection, because you can't even afford the minimum conditions in health care today. Today, 600,000 people do not have access to basic daily care because they do not have a general physician. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Everyone has a home doctor!]] 34,000 die without the disease, but because they don't get the right...
u2019-11-18-94	I'm waiting for your answer, Congresswoman. Congresswoman, I'm waiting for your answer.
u2019-11-18-95	I don't accept it!
u2019-11-18-96	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 111 votes in favour, 34 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Gréczy, a representative of DK, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-11-18-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Chaos, confusion, discussion in Hungarian health care. The work of the various bodies of the Orbán government seems to have lost consistency. It is not enough that thousands of Hungarians die because of the Orbán government simply because they do not receive adequate medical care in time. It's not enough that we don't have enough GPs, it's not enough that we don't have enough pediatricians to lock us up in hospitals, that more people die from hospital infection than in a car accident. It's not enough that the government doesn't fund the treatment of children with muscular dystrophy. There is now the savings, and the uncoordinated activity between the right hand and the left hand has started in this case, so that you can now hire people in hospitals or not hire them, while the stadium is missing out on saving and, for example, misses the Ministry of Finance building, which costs HUF 50 billion to Hungarian taxpayers. This means that it is uncoordinated that it is now impossible to know that you can hire a doctor and nurse. Of course, it came from the government's competent body to deny that, yes, it could be recorded, while the Hospital Association issued a statement stating that the State Healthcare Services Centre, the State Secretary for Health, had informed them that they would do their best to resolve the number of people in hospitals as soon as possible. So there's something wrong again. One step says there's no hitchhiking, and the next, they say they're trying to lift this number stop. I ask the Secretary of State how it is possible for the Orbán government to save on patients. In real value, hundreds of billions of forints were withdrawn from health care compared to 2010, Hungarians are losing weight, their parents are fewer Hungarian babies, and one in six Hungarian children are now seeing the light of day abroad. There are waiting lists of brutal lengths, and don't try to deny it, because we know reality. When are you going to release this certain staff stop? When can hospitals hire nurses and doctors again? That's what I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2019-11-18-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-11-18-99	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, After you took 600 billion forints from health care under your government after you closed the Children's Hospital in Svábhegy, OPNI [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We know, we know, we closed... OPNI was a mistake.]] Szabolcs Street Hospital and Schöpf-Mere Hospital, after you've cleared 16,000 active hospital beds after you've laid off 6,000 medical workers after you've taken a month's rent from every medical worker. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That's not true!]] After you have introduced a visitation fee and hospital daily allowance, after the proportion of health expenses per capita has decreased only in Hungary under your administration, then Zsolt Gréczy, an independent, objective journalist, wrote the following lines on the columns of Népszava: . Even many socialist politicians and sympathizers can believe that, after all, everything that has happened in health is a failure. So you whipped the socialist politicians, how they imagined that health care would be a failure, by the time the recipe came in from Zsolt Gréczy, an independent, objective journalist, and not to be scared, but to talk to many people and many times, because this will solve the problems of health care. In spite of the withdrawal of funds, despite the elimination of beds, despite the closure of hospitals, it is not necessary to be scared, but to talk to many people and many times, and then they will believe that you were able to manage health care well, honourable Member. On the other hand, which you listed here, there were 70,000 people on hospital waiting lists when you finished your government, now 28,000 people with HUF 31 billion in additional funding. As far as the staff stop is concerned, or today's fake news about hospital closures, honourable Member, you make a living making fake news, and you try to sit on it. In fact, the newly elected mayors who belong to the opposition are likely to be set up to take as cash what Népszava has written about a proposal that the government has never had, which the government has never asked for, but is first seen on the columns of Népszava by officials of the government, honourable Member. And then, obviously, based on this Népszava article, there will be political actions to be launched, and action in the interests of health to those politicians, honourable Member, who advertised a stadium stop, and, on the other hand, the stadiums were told that it could be built, that only a museum should not be built and that a super hospital in South Buda should not be built in Budapest. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Nobody said that!]] So he's a hospital stop and he's a museum stop from your stadium stop. [[It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] And then he speaks here in Parliament and tells us why we don't spend more time on health care. Honourable Congressman, You have also been able to see the figures of the budget law: we have accepted more than HUF 770 billion in the next year's budget for health purposes than the amount included in the 2010 budget. We raised the wages of nurses by 27 percent between 2012-13, increased by 26.54 percent from 1 September 2015, increased by 12 percent from 1 November 2017, increased by 8 percent from 1 January 2018, increased by an additional 8 percent from 1 July 2019, increased by 14 percent from 1 January 2020 and increased by 20 percent from 1 November 2020 and increased by an additional 30 percent from 1 January 2022. This means that between 2019 and 2022, we increased overall by 72 percent. And it also meant, honourable Member, that the value of additional resources was that we were able to increase doctors' salaries by HUF 207 thousand in 2016-17. It also meant, honourable Member, that the monthly financing of an average GP practice is no longer below HUF 900 000, but above HUF 1.6 million. This, honourable Member, is what the civilian government has been able to create in the health care sector against your failure, and there are many other tasks, so we would like to continue this further. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-18-100	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-11-18-101	Of course, I don't accept the answer, Mr. Secretary, you keep lying. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: That's right!]] In our eight years, we developed hospitals. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: You're closed!]] If anything... [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] There are many hospitals in the country. In your district, who inaugurated the new wing of St. Imre's Hospital? Ferenc Gyurcsány inaugurated St. Imre's Hospital! If you have a problem with any hospital that's shut down, why haven't they reopened it? Why didn't they open it again? That means it was the right decision then. The air rescue was developed and completed by the Gyurcsány government in Hungary. Air rescue in Hungary! Over a hundred rescue stations have been renovated. [[An uproar on the pro-government side. It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Mr. Secretary. You don't understand the message of October 13th. [[A statement from the governing parties' benches: Yes, you can.]] If everything was okay with the Hungarian health issue, you should have won in Budapest and several county seats. Hungarian health care is in crisis. Please name something, a hospital about Gunner, because you might want to put it up. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It's going to build. [[Various applause from the benches of opposition parties Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That's right!]]
u2019-11-18-102	Dear Parliament, Please remain calm. Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] [[16.10]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 112 votes in favour, 37 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, a representative of the LMP, submitted an interview to the Minister of Finance: "What about the pension system if economic growth slows down? It's an address. By responding to the interpellation, Prime Minister Miklós Kásler, Minister of Human Resources, who is competent and competent according to the subject. At the request of Minister Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, he responds to the interpellation. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-11-18-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In recent months, more and more people are ringing alarm bells in the world: the time for economic growth is over. The deterioration of the external environment in itself has a major impact on domestic processes, which are expected to be further reduced in the following year by the slowdown in the use of EU funds and by the halting of public investment at the end of the municipal election period. In 2020, economic growth in Hungary is likely to fall significantly to below 3 percent. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] This will be particularly sensitive to those who have not been properly involved in the growth of recent years, i.e. the elderly and pensioners. Unfortunately, it is clear that the government has no intention of correcting pension system errors and reducing inequalities. The proportion of older people is increasing and fewer and fewer children are born. This trend is already very dangerous to the pension system in Hungary, as it is the essence of the fact that the employees who are currently active are paying the pensioners out of their payments. Moreover, in recent years, the state has clearly benefited multinationals against Hungarian people, i.e. not employers, but workers. The proportion of employee contributions has been increasing in recent years compared to employers' contributions. In vain, however, working Hungarians give more and more to pensioners, as the annual decrease in the social contribution tax payable by employers, which is the main cover of the fund, means that the pension will be reduced. While in 2010 pension expenditure amounted to 11.9 percent of GDP, under the Finance Act it will be only 8.3 percent next year, i.e. it will decrease. This figure is also a disgrace in international comparison: on average, the EU 28 spends 12.8 percent of their GDP on pensions. If the economy slows down, it will mean rising unemployment and much less taxes and contributions, and the current pension system could collapse. Dear Secretary of State, How is the government preparing for a significant economic slowdown? If that happens, how will pensions be financed? And my third question is, are you really not going to pay a pension premium next year if economic growth falls below 3.5 percent? I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you.
u2019-11-18-104	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Tamás Schanda responds to the interpellation... [[For signal:]] Yeah, I'm sorry, I'm asking you to understand. State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation.
u2019-11-18-105	We look like you, but yes, I'd like to answer now. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: No, no. There's only one in Jétvári!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Balliberal politicians seem to need austerity as much as a bite of bread, so you get up with it, you lie there, and you're used to being constrained, constrained, constrained. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I could tell you what KDNP politicians need...]] and now, when there is hardly any EU Member State in which the total national product would grow more than in Hungary, because thank God, the fruits of the Hungarian people's work can now be reaped at home, and not by the multinationals. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Lőrinc Ripper and Garancsi...]] but the domestic economy can expand, therefore, although there is barely any economic growth in Germany, it is 0.7 per cent, yet in Hungary it is still 5 per cent. [[Márta Demeter interrupts.]] You're talking about this time, too, but I'm sure there will come a time when you need to squeeze, because you're good at this, that's for sure. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: If I told you what the government is good at...]] The Balliberal side is good at austerity and the Fidesz-KDNP side is good at economic growth. If you look at the history of the last 30 years in Hungary, you can see this, everyone does what they know better. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and For nine years we have heard from you that any amendment to the law on economic matters has been brought before Parliament, or tax law, or budget, that the Hungarian economy will collapse within six months of this law. That is what they always said, and none of their predictions worked, as this led to the fact that Hungarian economic growth is now around 5%. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and When wages were rising in Hungary, because thanks to God, economic growth, there was an average two-digit increase in wages in Hungary. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That's not why! Because there are fewer and fewer people working!]] This is not the same as in the time of the opposition, when wages decreased and pensions decreased, because a month's wages were taken from every Hungarian nurse, every Hungarian police officer, every Hungarian official, every Hungarian teacher and every Hungarian doctor, and a month's pension from every Hungarian pensioner [[Intervention from the benches of opposition parties: You're lying!]] So these are not the times, but thank God, wages are rising. This also means, honourable Member, that anyone who now earns higher wages will later receive a higher pension. It's a positive spiral; it's not the negative spiral that was in your time when you followed austerity, it's a positive spiral with rising wages, which will also increase the pensions of the future. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Did you ever think about how a pensioner actually listened to those words when you were talking about how the reduction of the rent was a misguided policy, because that would make people consume more water, more electricity and more gas, and that would be contrary to your green imagination? How irresponsible it is for people to have cheaper gas, cheaper electricity and cheaper water? Did you ever think about how the retired people listened to those sentences for you? Or now, when you said that, unfortunately, fewer and fewer children are born, and this too could endanger the sustainability of the pension fund if fewer children are born and fewer contributors are born? But then why do you share on Facebook articles where people who tell themselves to be scientists don't have to have too many children because the birth of too many children carries dangers to the climate? Now, what is your position: what you say here in Parliament, that few children are born, and that is bad for the pension fund, or what you share on Facebook, that child birth is one of the drivers of climate change, one of the springs, honourable Member? [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai:...good pictures, it's worth going there...]] You've been talking about being too high for the last few minutes, the government doesn't reduce the burden on workers. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Personal income tax of over 30 percent is now 15 percent. Name a country in Europe that has reduced personal income tax to this extent for citizens, honourable Member. More than 100,000 families in Hungary today do not pay taxes or contributions in the family-type tax system, precisely because they can benefit from the full benefits of family-type tax incentives. Our era thus promises security for pensioners, which I have already said in several speeches today. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That may have told you, but that is not the opinion of many.]] The purchasing value of pensions could increase by more than 10 percent, because not the left-wing growth policy based on austerity, but the right-wing growth policy has been implemented in recent years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-18-106	Thank you very much for your reply. I'll ask the congresswoman to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2019-11-18-107	I don't accept it, but thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for following my side. I hope you liked it, because I talk a lot about climate change. [[Noise and interruptions from the benches of the governing parties.]] Mr. Secretary. You have made mistakes in recent years, and the Hungarian people and pensioners will pay the price for this. Firstly, economic growth: already the Prime Minister and Mihály Varga usually talk about the slowing down of economic growth in the world, and this will also happen in Hungary. This means, however, that if economic growth decreases, Hungary will be in much more trouble than the other countries because they made the Hungarian economy dependent on the automotive industry. In a crisis, people don't buy cars. You are proud that there has been a pension premium this year, but you must see that it has only occurred twice in the last ten years, and not every year, so Hungarian pensioners have benefited very little from economic growth. [[Interviews from the benches of the governing parties: Over! Time!]] But you have also made a mistake in wage policy, because only in recent years wage policy is growing... [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] As a result, hundreds of thousands of people went abroad and... [[The president's gonna turn off the speaker's mic.]] the coverage of... [[16.20]]
u2019-11-18-108	Congresswoman, I'm waiting for your answer. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: I don't accept it.]] I thought you said you wouldn't take it. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 117 votes in favour, 35 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Tamás Mellár, a representative of the Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. How does the government imagine the future functioning of the Eötvös Loránd Research Networks? It's an address. Congressman Tamás Mellar is the one who has the floor.
u2019-11-18-109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, At the end of the spring session, the government had Parliament accept the attachment of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and set up a new institutional framework. This was the Eötvös Loránd Research Network. The justification was that this should be established as soon as possible and as quickly as possible because the new organisational framework will ensure a much more efficient operation for research institutes. Even though there has been a great, great uproar in scientific life both abroad and at home, you have always told us to calm down, a much, much more effective system will be developed, and then innovation will be much higher. From September the new organisational system has been in place, and from September the Eötvös Loránd Research Network has been in operation, but the results of this, not the results, but the conditions of the new framework are not even visible. It is not clear at all how this will work, because it does not have a founding document or organizational and operational rules of this institute. Those who work for former academic institutions say that nothing actually happened after 1 September, they work in the same way as before, but they can't use the name MTA. This raises the question that neither the government, when the law was adopted, has a plan drawn up for how this is supposed to work. Miklós Maróth, the head of this institute, has said several times, he cannot say exactly how this will work. Consequently, I would like to ask Mr State Secretary the following questions. First of all, how do you imagine how the Hungarian Academy of Sciences will function further, when it has been deprived of its research network, since its basic tasks still include promoting science and contributing to the achievement of basic economic and social goals. In the present form, you can't really see how you're going to be able to perform this basic function. The next question is when will the government come up with a strategy for R &amp; D and innovation for this new institute, this new research network institute. Finally, when is the establishment of the Institute's organisational and operational regulations expected? 'Cause after three months, that's the right thing to do. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-11-18-110	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Tamás Schanda responds to the interpellation. I ask for your understanding, Mr. Secretary. There you go. You have the floor.
u2019-11-18-111	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The fact is that you are now concerned about the fate of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and the research institutes, yet you have joined forces with those who simply wanted to level the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, the researchers working there, and the work there has been ignored. Honourable Congressman, The MTA remains an important player in society. The government's goal is to further develop the values that the Hungarian and international public still appreciates in the MTA. As an autonomous public body of Hungarian science, the Academy was and remains a fundamental feature of Hungarian constitutionality, and its transformation continues to guarantee the freedom and independence of scientific research. Academic tasks and responsibilities remain unchanged. The Hungarian Academy of Sciences continues to advise and guide social issues. He has played this role, not through the network of the research institute, but through its members. Honourable Congressman, The government's aim is to make Hungary one of the five European countries where it is best to live, live and work by 2030. Our task is to ensure that the Hungarian families and the Hungarian economy are the XXI. To this end, innovation must be strengthened. So far, Hungary has lacked the research and development and innovation system, which would have guaranteed that knowledge would benefit the Hungarian economy, because more and more research should be carried out. Therefore, the government decided that the next budget in the framework of the economic protection action plan will provide HUF 32 billion more funding for research and development than this year, thus the amount allocated for this purpose will exceed HUF 150 billion. The transformation of the MTA creates the opportunity to create more patents and more inventions. Our aim is to ensure that research institutes and higher education institutions do their work not in isolation but in cooperation with each other and economic operators. Honourable Congressman, The Eötvös Loránd Research Network is the central budgetary body under the control of the National Assembly, independent of the government, with its own governing body, which has a public function, and in terms of its independence is the same as that of the MTA. Its budget is included in the Hungarian budget on a stand-alone basis, i.e. not during the budget of the ITM or MTA. The status of researchers and research institutes remains unchanged in the new structure. At the same time, the law provides an opportunity, if the organisation so decides, to operate in another legal form, but this is their decision. The Secretariat of the Eötvös Loránd Research Network has started its operations under the current legislation, thus having a charter and also the organisational and operational regulations mentioned in its question. Honourable Congressman, Our aim is to ensure that the billions of forints spent on Hungarian scientific research do not disappear without results, but that this is used in patents and inventions that enhance competitiveness. We trust in the creation of research results, patents and inventions that serve the Hungarian economy in substance. Thank you for your attention and kindly accept my reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-18-112	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Congressman to accept the answer.
u2019-11-18-113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I can't accept the answer, and I can't accept it because you didn't answer the question. I asked him if he existed or when there would be organizational and operational regulations. If there is, then why can't you access it? Then I asked if this new research network had a strategy and concept. If there is one, why don't you like to publish it? For it is in the interests of all of us, we all want it to be an efficient, well-functioning Hungarian economy, and you should share that with all of us. So we would like to see what is the organizational pattern, structure, and let us not talk about the possibility that we might have had to settle disputes about it. By the way, I suspect that there is nothing more than the desire to take away the autonomy of academic institutions, and they have done so, and to suppress the critical voice, compared to that, all the rest was a misrepresentation and a search for reason to take this step. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-18-114	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 114 votes in favour, 35 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Mr.Barna Pál Zsigmond, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade:. What can we do about increasing migratory pressure? It's an address. Before I give the floor to the Member, I would like to thank you for your cooperation and to give the chair to Vice-President János Latorcai. [[16.30]] [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2019-11-18-115	Thank you very much. I warmly welcome my fellow Members and give them the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-11-18-116	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In 2015, we witnessed a serious migration crisis, which has put a heavy burden on our continent of defence, economic and political importance. Although Western European countries have promoted unconditional inclusion through political rhetoric and mainstream media, it was clear that they do not have a real plan to integrate the Muslim majority of immigrant flows. As a result, problems have emerged and persisted in large cities that would have been unimaginable a few decades ago, let us consider terrorism or the development of no-go zones. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] Today, if the mayor of a Western capital declares that continuous terrorist preparedness is a natural part of being in the big city, we must admit that it is not the fear that drives it, but the experience, but it is still unacceptable. Fortunately, however, in recent years we have managed to reduce the number of illegal border crossings by magnitude. The fact that we are currently able to control the problem in Europe is largely due to the early and decisive action of the Hungarian government, even if the price of this was that the liberal politicians of the world were stigmatizing Hungary for this. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Soros!]] Fortunately, European decision-makers are now beginning to realise that humanitarian aid is not an unconditional opening of borders, so it could be said that, despite the initial atmosphere, the legitimate self-defense policy that the Hungarian government has been representing since the beginning is being strengthened throughout Europe. However, with all this, it would be a serious mistake to put ourselves in the belief that the problem has gone away. Propaganda encouraging migration flows from within continues to support the mainstream Western media, and the European Union is actively attacking our most important ally, Turkey, while the just-dead Islamic State continues to effectively mobilize both directly and indirectly the Islamic fundamentalists. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: You should read the Western press...!]] Dear Secretary of State, We would finally like to find a lasting solution to the migration problem. We would like to focus first of all on how we can provide effective local help to the issuing countries. Unfortunately, however, we must expect a rise in migratory pressure, which poses a significant economic and security policy risk to both Europe and neighbouring regions. I therefore ask, Mr Secretary of State, what kind of policy the Hungarian Government is preparing to address the problems of increasing migration. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-18-117	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer to the interpellation question of the Member from Secretary of State Tamás Menczer. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-11-18-118	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I would like to start there, or with the part that you have said that you have completed this challenge, that is the problem, or that you are with us or not, because we need to ask some fundamental questions that may be logical and equally fundamental for us, but this is not for everyone in political life either here or abroad. So your problem with us is immigration and illegal migration? And the obvious answer to that is yes. There are several reasons for this. One is that, according to the most careful estimates, 30-35 million people live in Europe's southern and eastern neighbourhoods under conditions where they can make decisions to move towards Europe at virtually any time. There are three reasons for this: either he has left his country; or he is living within his country, but he has left his home, so he is called an internal refugee; or he has not even left his home, but he needs humanitarian aid, so there are at least 30-35 million such people, but there are estimates and studies about tens of millions more numbers. The second question that needs to be asked is whether this process is good or bad for us, because it would probably surprise us here if we were not aware that this debate has been taking place for years and continues to take place in Brussels and many European cities. Is that good or bad? My belief is that it's bad. There are many reasons for this, but the most fundamental thing you have mentioned is the risk of terrorist attacks. In recent years, there have been more than 30 terrorist attacks, and here we have to think of the major terrorist attacks, even if it is not possible to differentiate between terrorist attacks, there is no small and large, but I am thinking about those that have been through the world press, more than thirty of them, more than 330 innocent Europeans have died and more than 1300 have been wounded. These terrorist attacks were committed by perpetrators who either came with the current wave of immigration or have a different type of immigration background. The fact that there hasn't been such a great terrorist attack in the last period is certainly joyful, but it doesn't mean that the threat has passed. There are a number of reports coming from several European countries which report that the danger is not only there but is increasing. In addition, a number of reports point out that, unfortunately, if you like, there is a competition between countries that lie on the Eastern, Central and Western Mediterranean route and send out distress signals one by one, so that the situation is getting worse and that the European Union should not only deal with the Middle Mediterranean route, but also deal more with the Eastern route or vice versa. So I just wanted to make it clear that the problem is serious on all routes. As you said before the Member, it is well known that in 2015 the Hungarian Government and Hungary first fought against illegal immigration, then our V4 partners quickly joined us, Austria joined us, and even Italy joined us; we expect the latter back in this club, of course. Another serious problem is that, in Brussels, the UN and the Juncker Committee did not want to stop immigration, but rather to organise immigration, they actually wanted to legalise illegal immigration by taking a knight's step, which, according to the finest wording, contradicts common sense. The borders of Europe, honourable Member, honourable House, remain defenceless. In recent years, there has been no meaningful step towards protecting the external borders, so it is exactly as you say, that if you look at the route to the east, then we are fully at the mercy of Turkey, where there are at least four million immigrants who can move towards Europe at any time, not least depending on the Turkish President's decision. But as a closing point, I would like to inform you that the Hungarian Government, as has been before, will continue to [[The president's ringing the bell.]] insists on its policy so far: immigration must be stopped. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-18-119	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Mr. Barna Pál Zsigmond to accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2019-11-18-120	Thank you, Mr. President. I accept the answer, thank you, Mr. Secretary. I really think it is important that we address the problem of illegal migration, even though a highly respected representative of Jobbik said that this is a false problem. It is important to address it, because, at the end of September, the four Member States of the European Union decided to accept migrants in the Mediterranean and, on the other hand, we also see that the leaders of the Union want to continue to punish countries such as Hungary that reject immigration. And it is important that we address illegal migration, because in Turkey there are four million illegal migrants, refugees who can arrive in Europe as illegal migrants if Turkey decides to launch this four million-dollar mass towards Europe. And it is certainly an important sign that the President of the Hungarian Association of Vojvodina, István Pásztor, warned that this is not a fake problem, but there are thousands of migrants in Vojvodina, alongside the Hungarian borders. So it is important for the Hungarian government to consistently represent that policy [[The president's ringing the bell.]] What you've already represented. Thank you very much for your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-18-121	Thank you very much, Congressman. As we have heard, the congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Congressman Csaba Gyüre, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice:, Is there a rule of law where the wages of prosecutors are higher than that of judges? It's an address. You will hear the answer from Secretary of State Pál Völner, Congressman. Congressman's got the floor, please.
u2019-11-18-122	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, There is no doubt that judicial independence is one of the pillars of the rule of law. Without this, there cannot be a fair application of law, there is no impartial application of legislation. Hungary's Fundamental Law Article 26 ( 1) states that the judges are independent and are subject only to the law, they cannot be ordered in their judicial activities.-The National Judicial Council stressed in a communication that one of the essential components of judicial independence is the guaranteed, transparent and fair remuneration of the law. [[16.40]] The remuneration proportionate to the judicial profession and responsibility is not a prerogative or reward, but a component of judicial independence guaranteed by the Fundamental Law, the integrity of the judiciary and the continuous increase in the level of judgment. In addition to the case-law, the judges may not, except for some exceptions, carry out any other job or make a living from the judicial salary. It follows that judges' livelihoods can only be solved by income from the exercise of their judicial profession. Less than sufficient income can be a breeding ground for corruption, for impressionable decision-making, which cannot in any rule of law be a target. At the beginning of 2018, the Court of Justice of the European Union also spoke on this issue, declaring that the lack of remuneration proportionate to the responsibilities of the profession violates judicial independence. The judicial salary base exceeded the average salary of the national economy by only 23 percent in May 2019, reflecting the smallest difference since the regime change and the unprecedentedly low financial appreciation of the judiciary. Since the introduction of the current judicial model, the minimum wage has increased by 91 percent and gross national average earnings by 72 percent, compared with an increase in the judicial salary of only 16.5 percent. This has resulted in a significant decrease in real wages of over 70 percent over the past 15 years. The situation was the same with regard to prosecutors. However, as of 1 September 2018, prosecutors received a substantial increase in remuneration, so their remuneration is currently on average 20-30 percent higher than that of judges with the same period of service at the same level. This creates unjustified and inexplicable wage tensions between the two professions. On 13 December 2018, the Prime Minister of Gergely Gulyás announced that a new pay table for the remuneration of judges would be introduced by 1 January 2020 at the latest. Minister for Justice Judit Varga has also made several promises to settle judicial salaries. I ask, Mr. Secretary of State, is there a rule of law where the wages of prosecutors are higher than that of judges? Is it expected that in the near future, for example from 1 January 2020, judges' salaries will finally be settled in a comprehensive European way? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-18-123	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer to the interpellation question raised by the Member is Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-11-18-124	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, If I want to answer the question briefly, I have to say yes. According to the relevant study of the Council of Europe, such derogations exist, for example, in Norway, Denmark, Cyprus, Switzerland and Estonia. So, when we look at international comparisons, it is not unprecedented to have a different salary table between the two professions, but at the same time we consider it appropriate to treat prosecutorial and judicial salaries in a uniform manner. Of course, it is not the first time that we have discussed the payment of judges in addition to other settlements, but I believe that so far the government and the Honourable Parliament have always handled the proposals of the OBH properly. It is of paramount social importance to ensure a high level of financial recognition of judicial work and to properly manage the period of service required to determine the remuneration of judges. In 2016, the Government decided to increase the amount of the unchanged judicial salary in a total of three steps since 2012. Accordingly, three times from October 2016 onwards, on occasion, he increased the judicial salary base by five per cent, which is based on each other, with a total increase of 16,5 per cent between 1 October 2016 and 1 January 2018, which was also mentioned by the Member. In addition, judicial and prosecutorial staff received a 30 per cent salary increase as of 1 January 2017, resulting in a noticeable increase in income for them. The President of the National Court Office has repeatedly initiated the reform of the judicial salary system. His proposals concerned not only the basic elements of the judicial salary, but also the amendment ensuring a uniform calculation of the period of judicial service. Among other things, the Government supports the proposal to promote a common case-law. An important part of the case-law is to ensure the financial independence of judges, which can be achieved primarily through adequate remuneration, which ensures that the judge takes decisions without influence on the matters entrusted to him. The government has decided on these increases along this guiding principle and will continue to settle the judicial salary along this guiding principle. Honourable Congressman, As Minister Judit Varga said in several forums, including at the hearing of the candidates for ministers, she cannot remember because she was not present, the salary arrangement of the judges is neither a question nor a promise. The Ministry of Justice shall continue to consult with the authorities of the National Court of Justice in order to ensure that the remuneration of judges is adapted to the responsibility and dignity of the judicial work. Thank you very much for your attention, and I ask for my answer to be accepted. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-18-125	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman Csaba Gyüre to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-11-18-126	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary, for your reply, but I cannot accept that. I will accept it if the promises that have already been made here every year are actually made. I am pleased that Mr Secretary of State has said that we need to treat the court and the prosecution in a uniform way, and that we should not distinguish what we are saying, well, that is not what is happening. You mentioned OBH's suggestions that you had a high priority. Tünde Handó has already put a wage calculator on the OBH website, yet none of this has been implemented, because unfortunately the Ministry of Justice or the government has not supported all of this. We also cannot accept that Hungarian judges should be the last in the European Union in terms of wages, as long as all professional leaders claim that the professional skills of the Hungarian courts, the speed of their work and the merits of decisions are outstanding. There is no rule of law in Europe, in the European Union, where the wages of prosecutors would exceed the judges of the professional peak. I don't think so. I can't accept the answer. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-18-127	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, As we have heard, Congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. So I'm asking you to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 111 votes in favour, 39 against and 1 abstention. It's 16 hours and 47 minutes. This brings us to the end of the interpellations. Now for the immediate questions. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Péter James, leader of the Jobbik Group, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How long does the Government take advantage of people's patience? It's an address. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2019-11-18-128	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Finally, Prime Minister, I'm glad you finally found your job here after weeks of slacking off. [[Uproar and interrogation in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I didn't bring you dry noodles today. I didn't bring you orange noodles. I brought something else. [[László Szászfalvi: It starts well.]] You know what? What you fear most is the voice of the people. [[Interviews in the ranks of Fidesz.]] the voices of people, the voices of those who would stand before you, but you're a coward to look them in the eye. Well, the thing is, you have to look me in the eye for now, so I'm gonna be the voice of the people today. [[Intercoms in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] In the first round, I would like to quote the question of a father who has been displaced abroad -: Mr. Prime Minister, how much compensation should I receive from my daughters for days apart because I could not see them getting ready in the morning for school, for subsequent birthdays and for the love that I had heard on Messenger only, because of Dad? Mr. Prime Minister, what do you say to this father? That Hungary is performing better? Or is it that you care about Hungarian families other than your own? 'Cause this, you see, it's gonna be hard for them to believe you. There is a reason why many people are asking you: tell me how many billions of Lőrinc Mészáros's assets are actually yours. Well, how many billion, Prime Minister? Are you willing to answer that question on a lie detector? Will you do it? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Is this how Jobbik does it?]] Then a retired lady wants to know if after 40 years of employment, you could make a living on a pension of HUF 56,000? One worker wants to know: if you think the Hungarian families are living so well, could your family make a living on the minimum wage? And how is it that while the little man is working himself to death, he doesn't become a billionaire, you only go to Parliament once a month, and yet you are? Prime Minister, the questions are in order. Where did the private pension fund savings of Hungarians go? Why don't you stop the evictions? Do you ever say a prayer for the victims of health care? Is the speech prepared, Prime Minister, in which you apologize to the Hungarians for all the crimes you have committed against us? [[Uproar and interrogation in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[16.50]] And one more question goes into these two minutes: did you like the orange failure, the Jászberényi? The people are waiting for your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Intercoms in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-18-129	Thank you. The answer is given to the Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2019-11-18-130	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Our profession has a very beneficial quality: sometimes people leave, cast their votes, and thus tell us who is worth what. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks, as in Jászberény.]] Women say they were still worth 20 percent in 2018, and in 2019 they were worth 6 percent. The reason for this is where your question is that you are abusing people's patience. What you can't do in a country, I quote, is say, "Hell is lower than Gyurcsány." I quote Jobbik once again: The Jobbik does not cooperate with any left party. And then I read this: The activity of Gyurcsány in 2006 should be a criminal matter. You say you'll get together with him. They're cooperating with him. [[Interview from Jobbik's benches: Where?]] They share it. Everything you do, you're on your own, because anyone who has a thing for you, you're in a community. Gentlemen. How long does Jobbik abuse people's patience? [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Tibor Bana: Why don't you answer the questions?]]
u2019-11-18-131	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Before I give the floor to Mr. Peter James, I respectfully ask our guests in the gallery not to give an opinion in any way, because the house rules do not allow it. Here's the word for you, Mr. Péter James.
u2019-11-18-132	I believe you don't like the voice of the people, Prime Minister, but the people are waiting for answers. Can you make a living out of 56,000 forints? Can your family make a living on the minimum wage? Do you agree to testify during a lie detector on the wealth of Lőrinc Mészáros? You have the right to be curious about this, Prime Minister, people who fight close to each other every day to survive. In fact, they're literally fighting you now, too, because they're sick of your arrogance, your lying, or the fact that we opposition representatives are now banned from this Parliament just because you're being insulted by the truth. Prime Minister! The truth only offends liars. But the solution is not to ban us from here, but to stop lying and start serving this country. You are so far from it today that a voter asks you: when did you feel, Prime Minister, for the first time, that you have become the monster you once fought against? [[Rumble in the benches of the governing parties.]] I think it's enough that you answer this question to yourself, deep down, in case you're a better person after that. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik. Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes. Dr. Brenner Koloman: The truth, the truth, Prime Minister.]]
u2019-11-18-133	Mr. Team Leader! Parliament's speech does not allow any expression to be used. Prime Minister has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder.
u2019-11-18-134	Thank you very much, Mr. President. For the sake of fact only: In 2010, the minimum wage in Hungary was 73 500 HUF. The minimum wage in 2019 is 149 000 HUF. [[Intruder from the benches of Jobbik: Live with it!]] The minimum wage was 89 500 forints in 2010 and 195 thousand forints in 2019. I just wanted to say that we're not just yelling and making noise, we've already put something on the table. [[Intruder from the benches of Jobbik: Live with it! An uproar in the benches of the governing parties.]] Ladies and Gentlemen, You object to the new rules, but you have to admit that the opposition has brought obscenity, disorderly conduct and aggression into the Chamber; this is not good. We need more serious consequences. Disruption, aggression and obsceneness are not permitted in any workplace. If a Hungarian employee cannot do this, why should Jobbik's representatives do so? As for your credibility, I understand that you're interested in power and money. [[Defiance and interruptions in Jobbik's benches.]] But please note that there is a price to pay. I've seen someone like you. I remember a radical, even most radical anti-communist party in Hungary, who ended up with the Gyurcsányek and the MSZP, and it also ended up smelling the violet from the bottom today. I wish you all the best of luck. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Liberal International! Applause in the benches of the governing parties. Intercoms in Jobbik's benches. Dr. Brenner Koloman: Long live Rakosi, Long live the Party! Long live Rakosi, Long live the Party!]]
u2019-11-18-135	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Member Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "The Word of the People." [[Deterioration in the benches of the ruling parties.]] Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-18-136	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am pleased that this expression has already been revealed in the ranks of the governing parties. Prime Minister, I've actually been asked by ordinary voters, or I'm sure I've been asked. [[Defiance and interrogation in the pro-government benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] I'd like to put it on for you. [[Interview from the benches of Fidesz: Namely!]] To see what I missed, feel free to look at my Facebook, that's where I collected the questions. I would therefore ask the Prime Minister to disregard the qualification or discredit of the questioner, because I think it would not be elegant on the part of the Prime Minister in this case. The first big bouquet you're interested in, I'm going to ask you again, what about private pension savings, 3000 billion? What about the personal account of the 3 million people you promised me here in this room? How is it that the President of the Republic, the Fidesz appointees, now double their salary at the same time, while, by the way, a staff stop is being put in place in the state administration, and a 2.8 percent increase in the eyes of pensioners? The other big issue that upsets at least the voters who sent us messages is: I think that not only them, it is the 500-700 billion EU punishment that has been given to the country because of a corrupt system, and the extremely good fortune of those oligarchs close to you, which require this money to be repaid. It seems to many, Prime Minister, that this public money has once been stolen, and now it has to be paid again by the taxpayers. They're asking you who'll take responsibility for this. The third one's a little more personal, so I almost literally quote it myself. They're asking if moving to the Castle is okay, the little train is now pissed, the stadiums are nice, there's still some kind of childhood dream, Prime Minister. Or are we getting a little money for education and health care now? We're waiting for your answer. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-18-137	Thank you. I give the floor to the Prime Minister for an answer. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2019-11-18-138	As far as pensioners are concerned, my honourable Member, the reality is that you have governed this country before. To my taste, they steered for longer than they should. They took a month's pension from the pensioners. You're the people who cut pensioners, took their money. No one in this House has ever done this except for you. This is your own personal party record. You're the party that takes away the pensioners' money. On the other hand, we have an agreement with pensioners, which says that the value of pensions cannot be reduced as long as there is a civil government in Hungary; it does not decrease. Not only does it not decrease, it has not decreased in any year, and there have been years when it has risen and it will continue to rise, if for no other reason, because, as a result of successful economic policy, we can pay a pension premium, which increases pension contributions. I would like to remind my fellow Member that I have looked at the results of the local government, and I do not see that it has been possible to get into the assembly in six counties. This means that they did not jump the 5%; so much for the people's voices. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] But, speaking of the word of the people, I thought I had to understand it with a large letter, and at least once you could say here that while you are talking about the freedom of the press, the country's largest number of left-wing newspapers is owned and supported by an oligarch. Isn't that a lot of hypocrisy? [[A big round of applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-18-139	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. In return, I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Bellozó. Here you go.
u2019-11-18-140	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister! So let me get this straight, because there's so much crap going on here in this House that it's actually a little painful. [[Uproar and interrogation in the pro-government benches: Sit down! The president's ringing the bell.]] The 13th month pension was introduced by the MSZP government, and it was granted every year until the global crisis. You've promised me 14 months in agony, and I don't think you've managed to introduce it. Again, please answer the questions. What about the private pension bill? This is your promise, your responsibility. I thought he was proposing that the news published in the press today, that Lőrinc Mészáros' friend had reached the $2 billion private property, which is roughly the same as the Hungarian penalty to be paid, now suggests that Lőrinc Mészáros will pay the amount to be recovered from the Hungarian taxpayers instead of the theft. Finally, Prime Minister, many people, you know, have written to me that I should not ask you any questions, because it will only be personal, it will be false and it will be false. [[Uproar and interruptions in the benches of Fidesz.]] I'm so sorry they were right. This is not a good direction, Prime Minister. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Neither will the country, and perhaps after October 13th, if you look at the election results differently, you'll find that neither do you. Thank you for listening.
u2019-11-18-141	Thank you. The Prime Minister has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2019-11-18-142	I'm not surprised at all by your logic of thinking that party decisions can be made about private assets. Congratulations on that logic. And obviously on your side, that's the way it is. [[17.00]] However, speaking of municipal elections, it's only been a few weeks and we can answer the question of what the people's trust has been used for. I can see that, first of all, the MSZP representatives have raised their own salary. [[An uproar in the pro-government benches.]] Then I see that the men of the Gyurcsány era have been brought back, headed by Minister Draskovics. [[Noise, interruptions from the pro-government benches.]] Then I see that Sofia Snow, who compared the 1956 revolutionaries to Nazis, was brought back to town hall. [[Uproar, interruptions from the pro-government benches, among them: Shame!]] Then I see that a criminally convicted and prosecuted lawyer, a certain Czeglédy, is constantly decorated with orders. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Drown in front of your own house, gentlemen. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-18-143	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Never had such a penalty imposed on an EU Member State Lost 700 billion forints of development money? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-18-144	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Another evidence has been found that the Orbán government stole from the Hungarians. What has happened is that the European Commission Commissioner for Regional Funds has written that serious shortcomings have been identified in the Hungarian system and that you have had two choices. One was to search the whole system and pay a fine or pay a 10-percent flat rate. This also affects approximately HUF 500-700 billion among brothers in Hungary. You have created a system in Hungary where you chose not to scan the system, because you know precisely that it was created for theft, but you pay a flat rate of 10 percent, but for punishment. But they don't pay this punishment with your money, they pay it with our money, so once Lőrinc Mészáros and all their friends steal the Hungarian EU development money, then the small pensioner, the educator, the nurse, we all have to pay the penalty. I think that this is absolutely outrageous, and this has not been the case in the history of the European Union. Since the existence of the European Union, no penalty has been imposed on the EU Member State. You know perfectly well that this system was created for theft, because that is why this system was created, and you are even happy to agree to pay some sort of penalty. Therefore, by joining my fellow Member, Tamás Harangozó, the question is not whether it is private or not private, but don't expect the nurse, pensioner and educator to pay this punishment, Prime Minister. Pay for Lőrinc Mészáros, pay for István Tiborcz, pay for the fidesz oligarchs, that is my suggestion. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-18-145	Thank you. I will give the floor to the Prime Minister for the answer. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2019-11-18-146	The fact that none of your statements are true can be explained in two ways. The first is that you don't want to tell the truth, but you know that. The other is that you don't know the facts. I'm starting from the latter for now. So the situation seems to have been clarified that Hungary has not been sentenced to any punishment. Hungary does not have to pay a single forint penalty and has not lost a single forint from EU funds. Those are the facts. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-18-147	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Mr Zsolt Gréczy has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2019-11-18-148	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, either you're not telling the truth, or you're Johannes Hahn, Commissioner for Regional Funds, but you have to promise me right here and now that you're going to have a rough letter about what you're saying. Literally I quote:, We have asked the Hungarian authorities to identify the irregularities identified by the auditors in Brussels and to make the necessary financial corrections, or to impose a flat-rate correction of 10 per cent on all contracts. From Hahn's letter it is clear that the Hungarian government has finally chosen the technically simpler flat-rate correction of past time. So you've agreed to pay this fine. [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] The punishment was imposed on the Hungarian government because you carry out irregular public procurement. So once again, I would suggest that the punishment should not be paid by small Hungarian people, Hungarian citizens, and you should pay the penalty.
u2019-11-18-149	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2019-11-18-150	I know it's none of my business, but I would like to remind you that the Hungarian language has rules. Correction is a foreign word, but it doesn't mean punishment. Study this connection. Punishment means punishing someone and paying an amount. But there's no such thing as a technical account. It is not possible to take money from Hungary, because Hungary always does, not alone in the EU, to use EU money to 113 percent. Therefore, we cannot be punished, and it is impossible for Hungary to lose a single HUF amount. Returning to the proposal to pay what, however, here is a very outstanding case under penalty, called metro 4. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] It was under your control, perhaps you should pay it. [[A long applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-18-151	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Do you have any change in the government's environmental policy? It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-11-18-152	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, I can't tell you much about the last ten years of your governance in the context of environmental policy. In 2010, when you started governance, you practically destroyed the institutional system of environmental protection in the first steps, first terminated the independent Ministry of Environment, and then consistently started to weaken the environmental and nature protection authority system. These authorities no longer focus on environmental and nature protection aspects, but rather on the short-term economic interests of certain investor groups. These interests are ahead of the living, healthy environment. An example of this is the grubbing-up of 220 trees at Normafa in Natura 2000 areas for which the competent authority has granted a grubbing-up permit. Or I could mention another example: Minister Palkovic recently announced that in 2022 we want to place the World Speed Motor Championship race, and also as a greenfield investment. Prime Minister, at a time when climate change is accelerating, a green-surface moratorium should be announced rather than a environmentally harmful project, where I can also mention the fact that it causes serious air pollution, and there is also noise pollution. Prime Minister, I would like to know that there will be a change in the government's environmental policy and that it will restore the institutional system of environmental and nature protection. Will the independent Ministry of Environment, Nature Protection, Sustainability and Climate Action be again in Hungary? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2019-11-18-153	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer is addressed to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2019-11-18-154	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It could be more generous if you said you couldn't say anything good about our environmental policy, even though so many good things had happened, you could have really mentioned some of them. I just want to say to you that, unlike you, who sees this as a bureaucracy issue, we are not protecting bureaucrats, we are protecting the environment. You always protect the bureaucrats. You want to get people jobs on the grounds of environmental protection. It's not about protecting bureaucrats, it's about protecting the environment. And as for the engine-vb case, let's discuss it. In Hungary, people love motor sports. If you think that there should be no World Motor Championship in Hungary and the necessary course, then let us discuss this, this is an open question, not a closed case. And as for Normafa, look, I live there at XII. In the district, there was a referendum. It was a long campaign, and we were involved, and we made a decision. I think it's worth doing that. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-18-155	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. For a one-minute rejoinder, I give the floor to Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck.
u2019-11-18-156	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, I hope you know that the time for beautiful words is over. There are not enough goals and good programmes to achieve them, and this requires institutional systems and resources. Unfortunately, today in Hungary, there is virtually no institutional system for environmental protection, and I must say that the government provides very little resources for environmental and nature conservation purposes. [[17.10]] I could mention asbestos pollution, for example. For years there has been no funding for asbestos removal for thousands of families. Or I could mention air pollution. Today, air pollution causes the premature death of 15,000 people in Hungary, although with some resources it could be significantly reduced. But I can mention our poisoned legacy. And I could mention national parks. National parks are practically forced by the government to serve only tourism and this goal, ecological tourism, and there is virtually no source of real nature conservation work. They are managed primarily from European Union funds, and they have no place in the budget.
u2019-11-18-157	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder is the Prime Minister's word. Here you go, Prime Minister. You have the floor.
u2019-11-18-158	I am pleased that in the second half of his speech he acknowledged that there are environmental protection institutions in Hungary. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Here, for example, is the system of national parks you have just mentioned. But we have a forestry authority. And what I don't understand is why organic tourism should be attacked. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: Not enough!]] So I think it's a good thing. Nature itself is worth it, of course, but if people are curious about it and go there, it's as if it's useful. So I don't share your position, who now has organic tourism on the brink and attacking it. "The "soft words" are not sufficient, it is an important sentence. Last time you asked me, I told you, I can't wait for the capital to accept your plan for the climate crisis, to take action, and that's good, and then we can take it to the national level. It's a shame that no such decision has been made. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-18-159	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Timea Szabó, leader of the Dialogue [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]] "You want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What's going on? It's an address. Here you go, ma'am. You have the floor.
u2019-11-18-160	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, after 13 October, you said you wanted to cooperate with the cities that the opposition won, including Budapest, Pécs, Szeged or Miskolc. Compared to this, we have seen since the 13th that the government has put forward proposals that really encourage those thinking in this direction to believe that you want to strangle the leadership of these cities and these cities. To give some examples: let's say it's a small, but symbolic, that the cities won by the opposition at the Kubinyi Ágoston competition, or didn't receive any support at all, for example, Dunaújváros or Pécs, Tatabánya, Baja, the cities where Fidesz held its position, received the maximum amount. But you have also taken away the duties of the construction authorities from the municipality, transferred to the government offices. I'm guessing you don't want NER businessmen to be controlled by these city leaders in any way. Then the most important thing is the trade tax, as Gergely Gulyás tells you, which was presented without agreement in a salad on a secluded transport law for legal harmonisation, which is basically about the fact that the business tax of these cities, i.e. their only free use revenue, cannot be used for what they want, but can only be used for local transport. Gergely Gulyás replied that they do not want to change any system of sharing resources at all, when, in turn, we say that Gergely Christmas asked that this be withdrawn, because this makes the cities completely impossible, then Gergely Gulyás replied that we think this proposal is good. That was an exhausting professional response. But other cities, Pécs, Szeged, Miskolc, have been taken over by Fidesz people with a lot of billions of HUF credit. The city, they could be strangled by it. Then I would like to ask what the purpose of these measures is. Are you cooperating or are you trying to strangle the cities? Is it what you said earlier that we're not watching what you're saying, but what you're doing? Or what happens? Thank you.
u2019-11-18-161	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2019-11-18-162	Thank you. I'd appreciate it if you'd pay attention to what I'm doing, but the reality doesn't really bother you, so I've given up on this plan. I see you guys are still playing dictatorship. There was a municipal election, and in some places you did quite well in this dictatorship is not customary. And they continue to talk about oppression and impossibility. I have given my view on this at the Prime Minister's oath, and I see that it has not caused such an echo, but I commend it to your attention: I am convinced that victory is never final and defeat is never fatal, it is a political competition. So I think playing dictatorship is more fun today. Reading legislation is not an easy task either. From what I can see, there's been some misunderstanding. No one has said that there is no such petition before the House that trade tax can only be used for public transport purposes, you misunderstand that. [[Interview from Fidesz: That's right.]] There's no such plea, you're wrong. He's attacking me with something he doesn't know or understand. I suggest you read it, it says first place. That means in Hungarian that if it has happened and remains, it can be used freely. That's what this means in Hungarian. So the bad intentions you give me come from a language misunderstanding; I would be happy if you stopped accusing me of that. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-18-163	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from the Szabó Timea faction leader.
u2019-11-18-164	You're just a polytherapist. So here he gives grammar lessons, grammar... so really, I'm impressed. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] He just didn't answer the question: then why do we need this? Then why was this filed? That's what I'm asking you to answer. If, first of all, second of all, especially and anyway, you can in Hungarian... then now I don't know how to help you, because I'm sure I understand this very badly. So it doesn't mean anything, it's just a joke. And practically this business tax, for example, Budapest, which is affected by this issue at HUF 155 billion, can be used for whatever it is in the future. That's what it means, isn't it? Because in the 15 seconds left, we can go into what the impossibility means, that, for example, since the 13th, only three things have happened, let's say László Kövér has banned the press from Parliament. You... [[An uproar in the pro-government benches.]] I'm sorry, there's press representatives in a pen in the White House. And let's not do this. This is a joke. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time. László Szászfalvi: Time is up! Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: Time!]] Members are about to take away their one-year salary right now. [[The president's ringing again. László Szászfalvi: Time is up! Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: Time!]] László Fat will tell us which committee we can sit on. So we're gonna leave this joke part of the blockage, and then you're gonna have to answer. [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic.]] the original question.
u2019-11-18-165	One-minute rejoinder, Prime Minister. Here you go.
u2019-11-18-166	I really do not want the hour of immediate questioning to turn into an explanation of legislation, although you are encouraging me to do so. For example, he asks why we filed it. You should know that in the submissions there is an inscription called "the justification" behind the legislative text. If you read this, it says which legislation is to be submitted. So I am happy to answer this question, but otherwise you can do it in a simpler way: you know the content of the legislation. By the way, there was agreement with the Mayor that the most important issue in Budapest was the provision of public transport. This step is pointing in this direction. I thought we were on the same side, because the most important thing is that people in Budapest can use public transport. [[Szabó Timea: Can Budapest use 155 billion freely? That's the question.]] I couldn't have said anything more important than that, so I agreed with the Mayor, and we tabled a corresponding motion. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-18-167	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Attila Tilki, a representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question, "What is behind this betrayal?" It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-18-168	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Minister, The first round of presidential elections was held in Romania a week ago. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] In the first two places Klaus Johannis and Viorica Dăncilă graduated, so they reached the second round of November 24. From our point of view, however, the most important thing is that the candidate of Transylvanian Hungarians, Kelemen Hunor, reached 3.9 percent, above five years ago. Congratulations to Kelemen Hunor from here, too. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[In the notary seat, Sándor Szabó replaces Dezső the Believer.]] Hungarian politician supports the Hungarian candidate, it is clear to him who pursues a policy based on national foundations. However, there is another approach, the internationalist-cosmopolitan approach, following the late SZDSZ. Although the SDS has long since ceased to exist, its spiritual heirs are among us, only now they are called Momentum. [[17.20]] The president of the party, András Fekete-Győr, in the Romanian presidential election, campaigned alongside Dan Barna, a candidate who was involved in a serious corruption scandal, together with Dacian Cioloș, a young man known for anti-Hungarianism, formerly operating in the fascist Vatra Românească organization. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Anna Donáth, Vice President of the Momentum in Slovakia, attacked the Hungarians in the back when she campaigned against the Hungarian parties for a Slovak party and called on the Hungarians in the Highlands to be proud Slovaks. [[Laszlo Szászfalvi: Shame!]] It is clear that Momentum declared war on Hungarian communities across the border, they continue where the Oskars and Samuelys stopped 100 years ago. [[Intruder from Fidesz: That's right!]] The question is, why do they do it: are they chasing some kind of internationalist nebula, or are they acting very consciously on instructions? [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-18-169	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2019-11-18-170	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I have already had the opportunity to comment on the matter in public, and I can only repeat that until now Romanian agents have worked in hiding in Hungary even if they were Hungarian nationals. It is inexplicable, unacceptable and unforgivable what Momentum has done in this case. Anyone who feels like a member of the Hungarian political community must be united in making it clear that this is intolerable and insufferable. The fact that Romanian extreme right-wingers will represent the Hungarian interest more than the Hungarian party in Romania is a claim that is uniquely absurd. Even when time progressed, a new SZDSZ was formed, which is even more unscrupulous, and in national affairs there is not even as much ear to hearing as the former SZDSZ had. I think it's outrageous. It is clear that there is no longer any inhibition in Hungarian politics, for example, that Jobbik, who once started as a national party, has made a list with Momentum in several places. It is therefore acceptable for them to have a policy which expressly refuses Hungarians from across the border and expects the Romanians to represent Hungarians from across the border. We consider this intolerable, and we believe that whoever is a member of the Hungarian political community must be rejected as clearly as possible. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-18-171	Thank you very much, Minister. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Tilki for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2019-11-18-172	Thank you very much, Minister. In our village, there's a saying that anyone who gets caught in a dandruff can eat pigs. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: You can see that.]] What the opposition thinks of Hungarians across the border is that in the concluded slop coalition, you are all covered. You were all allies of the Momentum, they had a common list in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County. I would like to recommend Mai's quote to you and those sitting in opposition benches: "You don't know everything with words, but you know everything with your heart. We have to love it with our hearts. We love Hungarians with our hearts, we don't flinch at a Uruguay match that we don't stand up for Without you, and your friends were the journalists who were playing with it. They were in Budapest together, on a stage. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: You delivered the voters from Ukraine! And you were counting on their vote.]] It's outrageous and unacceptable, and don't pretend it's just Momentum, you're in on it. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Noise. Dr. Brenner Koloman: The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2019-11-18-173	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2019-11-18-174	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I agree that it is not possible to represent a national interest with the unnational forces that deny or oppose the nation. So this applies to all those who can accept the Momentum in any form as an ally. It is to be welcomed that there were also opposition parties in the Declaration adopted at the Hungarian Permanent Conference which condemned this behaviour, but this does not make the case undone. It must be made clear to everyone, although we are on two sides, there are sharp boundaries between the opposition and the ruling party, who nevertheless considers himself to be a part of the Hungarian national political community, and who else is thinking about determining their own place. Momentum is outside this community, Momentum may be an ally of Romanian parties, but it is hardly for Hungarian parties wishing to represent national interests. Therefore, the position of all parliamentary forces on this issue must be made clear. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-18-175	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Mr. Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How long does the Government abuse the patience of the people? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-18-176	Mr President, Dear House, When I turn to the Prime Minister, I typically look for what we can agree on, creating a solid foundation. I think we're gonna find a sentence like that today. [[Miklós Soltész: You're a little girl!]] This is that since the accession of the EU, the mass of resources to Hungary has not been used optimally in any year. However, the situation has deteriorated, Prime Minister, in so far as the European Commission has examined the operational programmes using EU funds, Prime Minister, thirty in Europe, thirty types of programmes: it has found eight objections to Hungarian programmes, six against French, and one or two for all other countries. Seven of these eight actions in Hungary are linked to public procurement and to your close business. I would also like to say that instead of clarifying the contracts individually, which you would have had the opportunity to do, you have chosen the way to accept a flat-rate fine, you will pay a flat-rate of 10 per cent. [[On the signal of Viktor Orbán:]] Listen to me, Prime Minister. I am not saying that Hungary would lose its EU funding for this, but I am saying that you cannot argue that Hungary must make up for the tens or hundreds of billions lost in this way from its own budgetary resources, from the Hungarian taxpayers' money. Prime Minister! In the press, the bid was wide enough, and I'm asking you to pay attention to the numbers, because on the scale between 100 billion and 700 billion, there were a lot of tips in the press, journalists. I wish to be a fair man, and I give you the opportunity to clarify the amount that Hungarian taxpayers have to make up for because of your activities, your alleged abuses. Clarify the price of corruption, how much Hungarian taxpayers will pay after your strange, tricky detour of public procurement! So what is the part of you that needs to be put into this system from Hungarian forints because you could not properly draw down the total EU resource mass? How much does this cost to Hungarian taxpayers? What's the cost of corruption, Prime Minister? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-18-177	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2019-11-18-178	I am increasingly convinced that these two-minute solutions will not help you to see the situation through. So there are committees in this Parliament, perhaps you should discuss them seriously and in sufficient depth. What my fellow Members are trying to understand is that the government does not distinguish between European Union money and its own budget: there is Hungarian money and there is not Hungarian money. The European Union's money is being paid for there. So we are united in our thinking, so no unnecessary investment can be made in Hungary with either money or Hungarian budget money that is addressed to the European Union. Consequently, any investment that is made makes sense whether it is paid from here or from here. As far as EU money is concerned, we will all get it by the last penny, not a penny is missing, we will all have it, and consequently no penalty will have to be paid. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-18-179	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpát.
u2019-11-18-180	Mr. Prime Minister, You disappoint me because we've kept a fair professional foundation for nine years, and you seem to be losing it. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I am not saying that anything would be lost from the EU's resources, but that it is necessary to make up for hundreds of billions of forints of Hungarian taxpayers' money in order to make every penny possible, precisely because the price of your corruption mechanisms must be paid by Hungarian taxpayers. We've had enough, Prime Minister, of the world of music cows, of the dog fitness parlors built with EU money, we've had enough of changing façades at the hospital. [[Moore, interrogations.]] But there's no doctor there, there's no ventilator working. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And we're sick and tired of the economic policy of the 30 years that you've left behind, and you're a big part of this. Not only since your governments, all the governments involved since 1990 and the accession of the EU, but you cannot exempt yourself from the fact that now Hungarian taxpayers have to make up for your irregular projects, these hundreds of billions of people who have not received their bills. Therefore, account for a specific amount of money so that we can maintain at least the appearance of seriousness and at least the appearance of democracy in this House. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[17 .30]]
u2019-11-18-181	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is the Prime Minister's word. Here you go.
u2019-11-18-182	This is the mathematics of science, but perhaps we should start by saying that if Hungary is entitled to a sum and all of it, then no pennies have been lost. This may be an acceptable starting point. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: To be added!]] But if you don't, you don't. On the other hand, in order to find something that we agree on, I think dog fitness or whatever the hell it is and a 40-inch lookout tower or whatever the hell it is, I think they're all problematic. But they're in league with the people who did it. [[It's a lot of noise.]] Well, that's what the Gyurcsány government did! [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]] Well, why don't you two talk about it? I want you to talk to each other. What you object to belongs to your allies, you know? [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: I am the only one who doesn't have to explain!]] I suggest that, since you are so well acquainted and in league with each other, you look at these questions, and if you do so, perhaps you should also go and ask your new ally's wife when she was still in charge of the development office as vice president. [[Zoltán Balczó: We don't have a new ally!]] then exactly how much actual punishment had to be paid. [[Zsolt Gréczy: None!]] Maybe we'll have something to talk about afterwards. [[Zsolt Gréczy: None! Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-18-183	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman István Simicskó, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: It's an address. Here you go, Congressman, you're the word.
u2019-11-18-184	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, I think we can all agree that health is the greatest gift. Ancient wise men also believed that man's greatest treasure was his own health. The government also holds the importance of the value of health, which is why, among other things, it launched the programme "Efficient Budapest" and that is why a number of rural hospitals were renovated. In the meantime, there was a municipal election, which we all respect, of course. New mayors also took positions in Budapest. That's how this XI happened. In the district, NewBudan. Various statements have been made by the new mayor in recent weeks that he does not support the construction of the center hospital in New Buda. I must say that the people of NewBuda welcomed the government's wise decision to build a NewBudan Centre Hospital, as well as to take the Sports Hospital to NewBuda, as well as the transfer of new CT and MRI tools, health improvements at St. Imre's Hospital. Yes, this development is about the people of NewBuda, it's about them, it's about this development, the government is working for them, and now the new mayor's statement is a cause for concern in this situation. I believe that high-quality healthcare is a very important, legitimate need for people, and I have received a number of requests in my host hour on what will be here, Congressman, after all. That is why I have turned to the Government, and I ask the honourable Minister for his answer. I hope that the government will not be discouraged by the action of the new government in New Buda and that the center hospital in New Buda can be built. Thank you very much for your kind response in advance. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Zsolt Gréczy: You've had ten years!]]
u2019-11-18-185	Thank you very much, Congressman. Minister Gergely Gulyás will answer your immediate question. Here you go, Minister.
u2019-11-18-186	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, The government has made it clear on several occasions that the renewal of health care in Budapest is now on the way. [[Intercom from Jobbik's benches: It's moving a little slow!]] If you look at next year's budget, you will only find 42 billion HUF under the heading of the Programme for Healthy Budapest. [[Dr. László György Lukács: There won't be much!]] The Parliament adopted next year's budget, so development resources are available. The infrastructure and buildings of rural health have been significantly renewed in recent years. This debt is still ahead of us in Budapest. Let us not forget that the development resources were spent on metro 4 and that is a penalty. If someone wants to distinguish between the concept of punishment and correction, then we can help you with that. As far as the South Buda Centre Hospital is concerned, planning procurement is under way, but there is no doubt a new situation, since voters in Budapest have decided that the XI. They wanted change in the district and in the capital, and they wanted change. The government has made it clear that the views of the new elected leaders are also important when we want to achieve any development. For the time being, it appears from the statements of the mayor elected there, who recently was a fellow Member of the Democratic Coalition who was opposed to the construction of the South Buda Centre Hospital and has other ideas, thoughts, alternatives. What we're seeing is that a lot of people in Balliberal City want a hospital stop. We would also like to hear his views, so I would also suggest to Minister that, at his host hour, he may recommend to the voters that it is worth reaching out to the mayor with their opinion, and if he is ready to give a clear opinion, or if he reviews what he has said so far, then we too have the opportunity to make a final decision on this matter. The government's commitment to the case is known. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-18-187	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder is the word of Congressman István Simicskó. Here you go.
u2019-11-18-188	Thank you very much for your answer, Minister. I learned from the old wise men that three things cannot be hid long: the sun, the moon, and the truth. This is what the people of NewBuda expect the new mayor to stand up and confess the truth, whether he wants the center hospital in NewBuda or not. I don't think daffe politics is right, and I don't think it's right to do something just because the government wants politics, because it's obviously in the best interest of the people. I can tell you this because of old wisdom, there was once a dog sale in Buda, and if that's the case, it's only possible to predict that there will be a NewBudan DK mayor once. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Zsolt Gréczy: Seventeen districts have been lost!]]
u2019-11-18-189	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2019-11-18-190	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, There is an example of similar development in neighbouring countries. In Austria, for example, a new super hospital has now been built and completed in 18 years. In many respects, it would also serve as a model for the South Buda Centre Hospital. But, of course, in the case of health investments, although there is no district or capital authority, district authority is only in primary care and partly outpatient care, we still believe that the opinion of the mayors elected by the voters should be taken into account and we are eager to see what proposals the mayor has for improving health care. We believe that, not only does Budapest provide 1.6 million health care services in Budapest, but it provides health care for almost 4 million people here in the capital, so it deserves a new hospital where full health care is provided. So our request is for the new metropolitan leadership to make a clear statement, to advertise a hospital stop or not to do so. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-18-191	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:.Türk Office in Budapest? It's an address. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-11-18-192	Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. President. Fellow Members! Why is it in Hungary's interests that the Fidesz government accepts Turkish, Azerbaijani, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan citizens who are unknown to us in such a way that every law puts them above all accountability? Hungary accepts the European representation of the Türk Council to Budapest under such amazing conditions. You always refer to Hungarian interests. Well, then tell me why it is of Hungarian interest that Hungary pays the rent and all the costs of the office! Why is it good for Hungarian citizens that the employees of the Türk Office cannot be examined by any authority and are exempt from all taxes? Tell me why you're not consulting on this. Why don't you ask people if they want unknown Turkish, Azerbaijani, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan to do anything for us and the European Union? Please don't tell me that this is generally accepted in international diplomacy. With the countries of the Turkish Council, the proportion of Hungarian foreign trade is less than 2 percent. This clearly indicates that this is not a diplomatic issue. That, my dear Prime Minister, is your dog with the Eastern pals. So I ask: why should the members and employees of the Turk Council be given an exemption so that they can do anything in Hungary? Why give them diplomatic privileges unrequited? Didn't it happen that you wrote on the big posters that if you came to Hungary, you would have to abide by our laws? [[Intruders from the pro-government benches:]] [[17.40]] Why are we absolving our Islamic buddies of this? And while I have the floor, I have one more question, Prime Minister. In the EP, Fidesz MEPs voted in favour of the resolution condemning Turkey, but they did not allow it to be put on the agenda at home. Why is that?
u2019-11-18-193	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I will give the floor to the Prime Minister for the answer. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2019-11-18-194	First of all, I would like to state the fact that there are laws in Hungary and that everyone must comply with these laws. For example, there are laws for the representation of international organisations in Hungary, which must also be respected, for example, in the case of embassy staff, but also in the case of international organisations. You object to Hungary covering all or part of the operation of an international organisation in Budapest. Don't do it, please. It's a common practice. We also fund most of the UN office costs in Hungary. There is no special treatment here. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-18-195	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the congresswoman.
u2019-11-18-196	Thank you very much. I don't think the UN should be involved in this right now. I wasn't at all reassured by your answer. You are taking full advantage of Hungary and the European Union. As I mentioned earlier, besides less than 2% of foreign trade activity, what does Hungary get from the Turk Council countries? You, Fidesz, will sell the safety of the Hungarian people by kilo. I think that the biggest national security risk for Hungary today is the operation of the Fidesz government, and people feel this, it is no coincidence that on 13 October many settlements have said that they do not want Fidesz. Believe me, there will soon be a time when the whole country will say so. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-18-197	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Prime Minister. Here you go.
u2019-11-18-198	Thank you very much. I thought we were in a diplomatic debate, not in a harsh, direct political debate, but let me tell you that it doesn't bother you, of course, that the Minarets and the Jami are in mountains in Western Europe, but if the Turk Council has an office in Hungary, it bothers you. You're pro-immigration. The Turks who are migrants are good! They greet them, they're in the right place, they can come, right? ! Only diplomatic representation can't come. But, you know, that's not what bothered me the most about this whole thing. The most disturbing thing in the whole case is what you have said in mockery about Hungarian citizens. In Hungary, there are Kunos, who have an undisputed türk kinship. They've been making fun of them for weeks. They've been mocking them for weeks, even though there's a Grand Kunsa, there's a Kiskunsa, and you've been mocking them because they're of Eastern descent. Think about it for a second. If anyone had done the same in Hungary to Hungarian citizens of Jewish origin, what would have happened in this country? ! I suggest you do not apply double standards and give respect to everyone, the jasians, the Kuns and all Hungarian citizens! [[Intercoms from Fidesz: That's right! A big round of applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-18-199	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Representative László Varju, representative of DK [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] fellow Members! You wish to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:....will you return Újpest's hospital? It's an address. Congressman László Varju has the floor, please.
u2019-11-18-200	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear House, Prime Minister! Allow me to show you respectfully, because here, Minister, you have made a statement that I do not think is true: the Mayor of the Democratic Coalition, Imre László, is not speaking against the super hospital, but is speaking against its location, because it is not the establishment that is wrong, but that it could be implemented under much better conditions in another area, and that is what the current discourse is about. [[Intercoms in the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] But the reason I'm speaking to you today is that it's about talking about the renewal of health care. Újpest has more than 100,000 inhabitants. In this area, many, many hospitals have been shut down in recent years. This hospital closure, which last happened, created the situation that Newpesten does not have a hospital as a medical institution today. Therefore, there have been countless speeches and demonstrations in order to ensure restoration and health services in Newpesten. Újpest people want a hospital, and they have spoken for it. In recent years, you wanted to transform it into a worker hostel, and then, and before that, you wanted to make a homeless shelter from the hospital that had been renovated by the Gyurcsány government and the Bajnai government. We ask that this should not happen. We want a hospital. If you are really preparing for a health renewal, you should provide Újpest with the appropriate services and the government incoherence that has marked the past months, that once this decision has been made, and at other times it is, I ask that Prime Minister terminate it, and that Newpesten be healthcare again, hospital. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-18-201	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer is to the Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2019-11-18-202	The latest chapters in the history of the hospital in Újpest can be easily tracked by talking to Sofia Snow, who is linked to the downsizing of the hospital, but I do not want to avoid the question, which is undoubtedly justified. The government has a public decision on the need to consult with the mayor by 30 November in order to discuss how and what the future of this vacant building should be. So we're waiting for the mayor to come to an agreement. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-18-203	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman László Varju.
u2019-11-18-204	I am very pleased that, with a positive attitude, at least debate and consultation can take place, and this is certainly necessary and important for the benefit of the Újpestians. All along, the Újpest people demanded and again argued that they should acknowledge or take into account that, by the way, not only Újpest, but this district is in the neighbourhood of XV. district, more than 200 000 people are affected by the need to provide normal, decent health care. If you really believe that there will be a renewal of health care, if you want to do something about it, then this health consultation with the mayor, I hope you will succeed. Thank you very much for your reply.
u2019-11-18-205	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Prime Minister. Here you go.
u2019-11-18-206	I would like to reiterate that the Újpestians will decide what they want, and the government has appointed a minister to negotiate with the mayor about what to do with this vacant building. I very much hope that a solution will be found that will satisfy everyone. Because of the shortness of time, such insinuations, that may or may not be so, may not even be serious, if you allow us not to spoil our mood now, so let us not answer, but be glad that the door is open so that there can be a good solution that will be good for everyone, and especially for the Újpestians. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-18-207	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, It's 5:48 p.m., and we're at the end of Question Time. [[Several Members are leaving the Chamber.]] [[17.50]] I will ask my fellow Members to take their seats and continue our work. It is now time for a series of proposals to be discussed. I would also ask the Secretarys of State to ensure that the debate continues. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Attila Gelencsér in the notary seat.]] Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group has proposed that Parliament decide on the promotion of support for people suffering from rare diseases, H/7892. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Welfare Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Rig, the rapporteur, in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-18-208	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Thank you for your calmness in handling the appearance of Members leaving the room, since they still leave the empty stadium quieter after a football game than they do here in Parliament, where they have a job. It is a very important issue that this proposal for a decision is about. A financial fund for the treatment of children and adults belonging to the rare diseases group would be set up. In recent weeks and months we have been able to monitor Zente and Levente's struggle over time and their struggle for money, as they have collected a very expensive treatment for the two small children, the total value of which is HUF 700 million in Hungarian forints. But this vicious circle has not ended, it continues, these days they're gathering for Noel. She is a one - year - old child whose parents want to give her the same treatment. 2018-2022. parliamentary term Budapest, Monday 18 November 2019 93/2. Number Parliamentary Diary István Jakab, Dr. János Latorcai and Sándor Lezsák Chaired Tickets: Attila Gelencsér, Dezső Believable, Sándor Szabó, Dr. Lajos Szűcs First and foremost, we are always talking about the SMA, which has been around the world and the media most of the time. But we have to say that we are talking about a brutal number, and today in Hungary nearly 800,000 of our countrymen are suffering from some rare disease. I could forget about Krisztián from my constituency. Krisztián has a rare disease that attacks the sweat gland, is in continuous inflammation, and only surgically can these focal points and stumps be eliminated. Krisztián's parents live in very modest financial conditions, and their daily livelihood is also a problem, and I would also like to mention that after the treatments there is a need for continuous change of bandages and disinfection, but unfortunately the family cannot create this either, and the BNO codes do not allow him to have free access to bandages and disinfectants. Therefore, after several consultations and preliminary investigations, we decided to submit a proposal for a resolution which is not from the devil today in Hungary and has already been used. This is the creation of a financial fund, a financial fund that could also support the treatment of people with rare diseases, including SMAs, who, for some reason, are expelled from the public health care system and left on the side of the road. This fund would be on three feet. The first leg is about 1 percent of the tax paid, the second leg is about other donations from businesses and individuals, and the third leg is, of course, about assigning a government resource. Such a financial base was already in Hungary when the biggest industrial disaster hit Veszprém County, the red sludge disaster. At the time, several entrepreneurs, small and large enterprises, and even the devil George Soros, you referred to as the devil, had transferred $2 million into this fund. A similar opportunity must be provided for patients in Hungary who, for some reason, emerge from the Hungarian care system. There are SMA patients who have been rejected by NEAK, and for their treatment there is already a registered drug in Hungary, the so-called Spinraza medicine, whose total annual treatment cost is about HUF 120 million. This would allow those adults and those with SMAs who are still in relatively good health today to live through old age. Ladies and gentlemen, you may not be aware that this muscle dystrophy is a deadly disease if the patient does not receive the right medicine. And you can ask what the right medicine is. The right medicine is Spinraza, a product that is available for free in Europe, for example, Romania, Slovakia, Austria, Germany, Italy, and for all ages, for all types of diseases. This is why the anomaly arises that many of our Hungarian compatriots collect money and go to Italy to receive treatment there. That's why I'm asking for your support. As Mr President said in his introduction, the proposal for a resolution was rejected. Although the pro-government representatives voted against, they were pushing an "absconding" but everyone knows that, as is the case with a polite gender. I respectfully ask you to reconsider, and this is not a political vote, but a vote of conscience. Let us try to help sick children and adults to whom this means life. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-18-209	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent representative to speak in a two-minute time frame. I ask that someone on the part of the factions and the independent Members wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Yes, I would first like to give the floor to Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn from the LMP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-11-18-210	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Mr President, The LMP Group will support all initiatives that help sick people. I think that Lajos Rig's efforts to try and beat this through Parliament are certainly to be appreciated. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] I say this because, as a member of the Committee on Budgets, I know that my fellow Member has already tried a proposal to amend the budget there, and some of the people suffering from this disease have attended this meeting. That is what they say, that there are no words, because these people expect us to find a solution, and they expect us to let them live their lives. I ask you all to support this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-18-211	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I salute my fellow Members. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2019-11-18-212	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Frankly, I was shocked when Lajos Rig just said that this proposal had been voted off by the Fidesz MEPs. Now it doesn't matter whether it was done by pressing or staying on the button. I think this is a proposal that is absolutely correct, professional, humane, indispensable, because children are dying. It is simply incomprehensible that a proposal that can save children's lives completely clearly, and even about the kind of donation that Hungarians have shown in recent weeks, months and years, is also a social need to have some form of canalized, regularisation, how people can help in such cases, for example, by offering 1 percent of the tax, is a completely understandable and normal proposal. I think that rejecting this is not about the opposition's submission or the party's submission, but simply an inhumane attitude. I am curious to see how you will look into the eyes of children and parents who face the fact that there was a good proposal before this House, which would also have expressed social will, would have been solidarity, would have been right, and you voted against it. [[18.00]] I'd be very happy if it wasn't always for the fidesz oligarchs how to say it? It would depend on his good intentions that a child can receive this medicine or not, because if Lőrinc Mészáros does not feel like it and does not transfer a few hundred million forints, then perhaps a child may be late for such a treatment. That, please, is insolence! So if you don't support this, then I can simply tell you that you should be ashamed. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-18-213	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is László György Lukács, Jobbik.
u2019-11-18-214	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I continue to support or encourage everyone to support this proposal. We should spend a lot of money on health care, here today we have heard the question of the super hospital or Újpest, and there is also funding for medicine. Here is the case that as technology evolves and we know more and more, the more costly therapies emerge and, of course, these expensive therapies can be prepared in advance. The composition of the Hungarian population is well-known, and the number of patients to which these extremely expensive therapies and treatments must be financed should be calculated by the central budget. One mistake is that these are not taken into account by the government in the planning of the budget in any year, every time we draw attention to the fact that there is no safety net specifically related to the treatment of these diseases in the financing of medicines, this is always ignored. What I can say is that it is important to create such a fund because, indeed, as has been said here, the fate of patients cannot depend on whether it will be either through donation, by collecting social media or, where appropriate, on the good intentions of the oligarchs that a drug will be funded. Well, let me put it this way. It is unspeakable that someone, as the oligarchs do, like an intruder goes in, takes away all of man's property, and then gives back pennies out of good intentions, so that you do not starve or feed or do things. This can't work, it's much more forward-looking and much more predictable to create Hungarian health spending. We will ask the government to do so, and I encourage my fellow Members to discuss this proposal in the House, and then to establish a basis for funding the treatment of rare diseases. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-18-215	Thank you, Congressman. Mr László Varju has the floor.
u2019-11-18-216	Thank you very much. Dear House, I would like to join and join my fellow Members who clearly argue that this fund is necessary, and I propose that the initiative to promote the support of people with rare diseases should be supported by this House. The initiative in this form, which wants to solve the basic problem, is not new, it has already been initiated before, just so that those who need to be helped that, if they cannot finance it themselves and none of them can solve it alone, the country has to make a decision and to support it in this sense, or to have a mechanism that otherwise creates this opportunity. My fellow Member and I were at the Budget Committee meeting at which you, as well as those involved, said how much it is necessary for society's help to help alleviate some of their pain, because it is only part of what they themselves are suffering. I think that it is inhumane that, if we ignore this and you ignore an initiative where not only is there a suggestion in itself, but also a way of solving it, it is extremely irresponsible to push it aside and reject it in this sense, and I think that it should be more harshly said or should be addressed by those who say no to this initiative. In the near future [[The president's ringing the bell.]] you will have the opportunity to support this initiative. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-18-217	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congresswoman Anett.
u2019-11-18-218	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I could only assure the proposer of my support, and I would also ask you, on behalf of the government, to support this proposal. I would like to draw attention to a number of things about this proposal. On the one hand, this is a well-developed, detailed proposal that can be achieved. You regularly talk about how many social groups have benefited from great economic growth. I would like to draw attention to this disease and to the fact that it is an extremely small social group, an extremely small number of people in need of this assistance. In this way, therefore, the group's proposal would be broadly acceptable, acceptable, and we are talking about a proposal that is quite small in terms of the budget as a whole. I would therefore urge my fellow government Members to accept this proposal in any way and to think of what they would do if a child were to deal with this rare disease in their own environment. Thank you so much for listening.
u2019-11-18-219	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I will ask the author if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[On the signal of Lajos Rig:]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-11-18-220	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Firstly, allow me to thank the support of my fellow Members who have found this to be good and will support it in the vote. There was indeed a preventive moment here, because this year we proposed a 4.1 billion budget transfer, which unfortunately was not supported by the pro-government representatives of the Committee on Budgets. We have now tried to approach this from the other side: we would create a fund that would not affect this budget, the current 2019 budget in any way, which would give citizens an opportunity to help, as has been the case in the previous two cases, the government through an expert group. But we know very well that we were looking forward to the fact that the pro-government representatives stood up, and even pro and versus the argument, but we do know that when it comes to health care, they are either calling it false news, or they are listening, as we have heard at today's session when it comes to reorganization of health care, hospital closure, redeployment of departments. However, let us not forget that it was not the opposition who started the transfer of hospitals and the redeployment of departments, but the first statement by the new President of the Hospital Association. That is why I would have liked to see pro-government representatives stand up and say that this is why it cannot be supported that they want such a transformation. The only thing we ask is that you take this into consideration, and we hold a professional debate about it. It can be fine-tuned, I'm always happy to improve, but I don't like dribbling, especially when it comes to children and sick people. Thank you for the floor.
u2019-11-18-221	Thank you very much, Congressman Rig. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the amendment of certain central budget laws to restore the financial independence of local governments T/7575. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Committee on Budgets. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor on behalf of the authors to Mr Sándor Szabó, Member of MSZP, notary, in a five-minute timeframe.
u2019-11-18-222	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Local autonomy, the local government, now only means that the inhabitants of the settlements, the inhabitants of the settlements, make their own decisions, whether they are long-term strategic goals, whether they are their daily lives, but they do make their own decisions, and if the settlements are already making decisions, then, of course, we need money and resources. This is a very good construction, because until 2011, most of the settlements made their own decisions, whether I say it again about long-term decisions or everyday issues, and then allocated resources to this. But as of 2011, there has been a huge change in the life of the municipalities, and it happens that the local government, as such, has started to reduce local autonomy, to reduce the local government in connection with the amendment of the Fidesz government's law. What has happened is that the State has taken over tasks from the municipalities, from the municipalities, and has also taken the funds away from the municipalities. [[18.10]] Every year in the budgetary debate, Péter Banai represents the government in these debates, we always say it, and I say it now, my fellow Members too, I think they will say that the problem is that we say and think, and this is also the reality that the state has taken away significantly more resources from the settlements than it has taken over. This means that there are a lot of municipalities, 3 thousand settlements, lack of resources. He can't even carry out most of his mandatory duties. Obviously, there are municipalities in exceptional cases where there is a well-functioning local industry, there is a well-functioning service sector, these municipalities are obviously able to obtain a higher level of own income, but the vast majority of municipalities are not. This is particularly true when we talk about small towns and villages. If I look only at my own settlements, it is often a problem along a main road, along the road 43, to perform the compulsory tasks of the municipality, see, for example, the payment of public lighting, often they cannot solve, so they need to contact the government to help them with this issue. Obviously, the system of self-hit has ceased, of course, to submit applications to the Ministry of the Interior, so that the municipalities can still carry out their mandatory tasks. But here another piece or pardon could be opened, which is about who is the kind municipality and who is the little one not a kind municipality, because, of course, anyone who is a kind municipality will receive these funds in full. However, municipalities that do not necessarily behave as the government expects them to do, certainly do not or do not receive very little of the resources they would otherwise have to pay to carry out their own mandatory duties. And the situation of the municipalities has not been good by centralising tasks such as education or waste management, because it is also apparent that the large systems created, such large systems, have not helped the autonomy of local governments. Who else could have thought of the role of local authorities, where parents, teachers and, by the way, the local community would make everyday questions so that they could manage it from a large centre and tell them how to carry out these tasks? By the way, a year and a half later, this giga system, the KLIK system, collapsed, and now we've come to the point that we can see that schools are getting worse and worse. Resources should be grouped into this, and where EU funds are or have not been available, it is clear that schools are in bad shape, and now that local governments have no right and opportunity to deal with these schools, I look forward to how the state will resolve this issue. This is also true in the field of waste management, where municipal service companies have daily liquidity problems, because although they have to carry out the task, they will only receive it afterwards or receive it or not all the resources they have to devote to waste management. And the destruction of the local government has not stopped, because we can see and experience it precisely, even in the case of local business tax, what the municipalities will have to spend on, or for example, taking on building law. It is the proposal of the MSZP that I would like to say at the end, and I trust that my fellow Members support this issue, that resources should be involved for the municipalities. Thank you.
u2019-11-18-223	Thank you, Congressman, notary. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Mrs. Anita Kőrösi, the better Member.
u2019-11-18-224	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, By reading this proposal, I consider it to be fully eligible, regardless of whether we include it and debate it, also because the proposal contains specific elements that have otherwise worked before, as my fellow Member has said. What happened? In 1988, when personal income tax was introduced, there was a provision that 50% of the local citizens' paid taxes were returned to settlements. This was taken down to 8 per cent in the early 2000s, and in 2013, when funding changed, normative support changed from task-based funding to local authorities, and this personal income tax return was completely driven out of the system. Why was it good for the system? Because local authorities, the local leaders, were interested in bringing companies that employ locally employed residents to the settlement and working for a wage with a higher personal income tax amount so that the settlement could obtain as much of its own resources as possible. The proposal also proposes a car tax, as well as a refund of the car tax, which, in this case, as it stands today, goes back to the municipalities at 50 per cent, regardless of whether those vehicles are using the local road network, which, let's face it, is a burden to the municipalities that they cannot finance from their own resources. And that is indeed a madness that has gone on here today in the immediate questions, where Prime Minister said that it was primarily local transport. We see the way, we see that they want to bleed out the municipalities, and we can't give them our vote. Of course, we support the inclusion of this series of subjects. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-18-225	Thank you, Congresswoman. Congressman Attila Mesterházy has the floor.
u2019-11-18-226	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Once the second Orbán government came to power, it launched a completely clear and palpable process, which was centralization. This is what my fellow Member Sándor Szabó referred to, that more and more things are being taken over by the state, more and more things are being centralised, and that is what has happened, as Mr Szabó said, that funds have been taken away with tasks, but there are still more tasks left without resources in the municipalities than the government originally expressed as a reason or justification. Therefore, I do not think that the direction is right, because the principle of subsidiarity would require what is one of the most important principles of the European Union to decide next to the problems. So where the problem arises, it must be decided in the nearest place and in the community. So if we take seriously what the European Union says, says and what we have accepted, then the government should also organise its operation according to this principle. However, since there are many references and criticisms about the functioning of the European Union today, let me say that subsidiarity is also one of the key pillars of Christian democracy, since Article XI of the Treaty on European Union is an important pillar. Pope Pius formulated the essence of this principle in 1931 in an encyclical. So if, let's say, the European Union is not that important to you, then I could refer to you as Mr XI. Pope Pius, who also said that this principle should be seen as a standard of social organization or even power engineering or even morality. Therefore, I urge the government to return to this path, taking into account one of the most important pillars of Christian democracy, and to leave the local government to Hungary, leave it to the Hungarian communities. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-11-18-227	Thank you very much, Congressman. For two minutes, Mrs Krisztina Hohn will have the floor.
u2019-11-18-228	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, As a former mayor, I am very pleased with any proposal to improve the situation of municipalities or to strengthen local governments in their local government. One of the greatest achievements of the change of regime was the local government, and I believe that in recent years there have been many measures that have affected this local government. Fortunately, the local government is still on its feet, and the local authorities are still there, but we are watching the processes with concern, see the labeling of business tax and any restrictions, even in relation to the abolition of autonomous offices that have taken place in recent years, shake this local government. That is why it would be a good bill if this were to go through, for example, the car tax is here; my colleague, Anita Potocsány Kőrösi, spoke here about personal income tax, and I would like to turn to the car tax for a moment. 60 percent of this tax has to be paid into the state register now, it has been completely in place a long time ago, but all its costs are borne by the municipalities, starting with the check printing through the mailing process, everything else. Unfortunately, 60 percent of that won't be passed by the state. [[18.20]] It would be nice if all 100 percent of them stayed in the settlements, because they would know what to spend on. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-18-229	Thank you, Congresswoman. The next two-minute opinion: Mr László Hajdu, DK.
u2019-11-18-230	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The motion can be supported by the Democratic Coalition. I'd also like to add some justifications as to why. One of the biggest problems is that the administration, the local administration, was divided by Mötv. By amending the government, the government office and the local government were established, and there is a competition on the ground, namely an unhealthy competition, which is suffering from the population using the service. In larger cities, such as where I am a representative, it means that customers do not know that this is done at the government office, it is so often changed in the municipality, there is always something transferred to the government office every year, it was done here last year, it is done in the other place today. I think that this is one of the foundations for which this proposal, which we are debating here, is very justified. The second is that they do not come in a normative way, they do not receive funding in a predictable way, but they do not know on what basis one municipality receives and on what basis the other municipality receives funding. In previous times, during the period of targeted and targeted grants, the smooth development of infrastructure was possible because there was a normative basis for this infrastructure development. Now there are pothole roads in all areas and settlements, including Budapest, because this situation has developed. The reference to the task funding does not work at the moment either, the state gives 25-30 percent of the kindergarten, kindergarten, social care and mass catering in a normative way, because in the context of the introduction of tax power, it comes out that certain municipalities perform 60-70 percent of the state's tasks and not task funding. Thank you very much, we support you.
u2019-11-18-231	Thank you very much. The next speaker is independent Congresswoman Anett Bősz.
u2019-11-18-232	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, After a very practical speech and a very experienced mayor's past, I would also like to talk to you about the level of principles, because what is very important is the principle of subsidiarity that has already been referred to today. It is no accident at all that the European Union has become one of its fundamental principles. Local communities are very well aware of their own problems, they are able to assess very precisely the challenges they face, and they are able to provide very often relevant answers without interfering either with the central government or with the Parliament. At the same time, the significant withdrawal of funds results in the poor ducking of these municipalities. They cannot move forward in situations that would otherwise be possible in well-funded systems, so I believe that this proposal should be supported in any way. I think that we should also move towards decentralisation, move in the direction where we trust settlements, trust local authorities, trust the people who are as close as possible to the problem. They are the ones who can even meet the stakeholders personally and those who can set their expectations for them. I would also ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support this proposal. Thank you.
u2019-11-18-233	Thank you, Congresswoman Anett. I'll ask the author if you'd like to answer. [[For signal:]] Yes, I see you do. You have the floor, Mr. Notary, Congressman.
u2019-11-18-234	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank my fellow opposition Members for the inclusion and support of the bill. I trust that you will do so in the same way during tomorrow's vote. So the bill, as we have said, is all about providing greater financial independence and greater room for manoeuvre to local authorities, and it is doing so by providing more resources. The bill also tries to solve the source by leaving 10 percent of the remaining part of personal income tax, the total tax on motor vehicles and the public burden on them, as well as 50 percent of the tax revenues, to the municipalities. By the way, there is almost a similar proposal from the Association of Municipal Governments. They have also made these proposals earlier, which, by the way, they often make in every budget, as we do here in the opposition benches. I would ask everyone to support this proposal in the course of tomorrow. Thank you.
u2019-11-18-235	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the 2013 LIV on the implementation of the reductions to ensure a fair reduction of the government's unduly high energy prices. T/7215. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in a series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Economic Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I'll give you the floor from the long list of authors... [[Attila Mesterházy reporting.]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-11-18-236	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, this proposal serves the purpose, as its title shows, that energy prices should be reduced in such a way that it reflects justice, in Hungarian, this proposal has a threefold purpose. On the one hand, the need for a greater reduction in the cost of electricity, given that this is possible in the international environment that has changed in the past three years in terms of oil prices and imports of natural gas in Western Europe. Apparently, the Hungarian official prices did not follow this decrease. Instead, one company has made a huge profit over the past few years by buying gas at a cheaper price than it has been sold to the Hungarian population, so the first and most important aim of this proposal is to pass on this huge profit to Hungarian families and not to keep it at this company, and then, if necessary, to make use of this accumulated amount for the benefit of the Hungarian population. We're talking about tens of billions, almost a hundred billion. Based on our calculations and calculations by other experts, Hungarian families pay more than HUF 20,000 for this regulation than they would otherwise give Hungary the opportunity to have an international market environment and other contractual options. The second is that not only should this gas price reduction or reduction be higher, but also be distributed in a fairer way, so the point of the proposal is to premise or give greater support to Hungarian families until the average consumption, since the current regulation does not in fact distinguish between consumers and consumers. As a result, the more people consume, the more support they receive. So if someone is heating his swimming pool with gas, for example, he will receive much more support than a Hungarian family living in a panel apartment. That's definitely unfair. For this reason, we would like Hungarian families to receive much more support up to the average consumption than larger consumers. This also leads to a third positive effect, as we may also encourage the Hungarian population to save energy, since there is no greater support for greater consumption. So this can also have a positive effect, which means that people do not consume any more of this energy source, so they live their daily lives more energy-savingly. We therefore ask Parliament to consider that the majority of the governors consider this proposal to be worthy of support, since they have campaigned earlier, during the 2014 campaign, to reduce the costs, reduce the rent and reduce the rent. Well, then, this is our chance to take another step, a bold one, or even a bigger one, and to give a greater concession to Hungarian families who are already living in difficult circumstances, because our proposal is for those who have to live their lives on less salary and worse existential situations. [[18.30]] In addition, a number of decisions have been taken over the past period that have exponentially affected these families, so it is time to give back something of this, give back something of this. So let us limit, reduce Hungarian prices, even more than in the current regulations, give more back to the Hungarian families, and more justly. Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2019-11-18-237	Thank you, Congressman Attila Mesterházy. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent representative to speak in a two-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik.
u2019-11-18-238	Mr President, Dear House, Let me start with a coming outtal: I am extremely irritated by the fact that the Government of Hungary did not talk about the issue of settling Hungarian wages, and consciously kept Hungarian wages low, but in the meantime, he proclaimed himself that they would reduce the rent. So there was a bit of a cadárish aftersense that the expensive caring state would intervene and then make your rent a little less; it's true that your wages didn't get much more. On the other hand, although the government has proclaimed itself with all this, by examining the entire European Union over the last decade, we see that the worst gas tariffs have changed in Hungary, but electricity prices have also decreased significantly less than they could be shown in terms of the EU average. So, against government rhetoric, the Hungarian reality is that the decline in world market prices was much faster than what had spilled in here, so the Hungarian population is paying unduly for energy sources despite the reduction. The fact that we are debating this must be seen as an absolute legitimate basis, so Jobbik will certainly support at least a substantive debate on this proposal. I would also like to say that the debate on this proposal cannot be saved by the government. You will certainly try to do this, but you cannot, because the end of the current flow chart, the maintenance of the poor supply system, will be that state intervention must be as deep and deeper as possible in the energy sector. If this happens, the price of future developments will ultimately not be financed by market participants, but by Hungarian taxpayers, which, I think, is not necessarily a healthy market economy situation. Therefore, because of the above, Jobbik certainly considers this proposal to be suitable for debate. Of course, if you go to that stage, you will at least consider the package that lies before us to be controversial with the proposals of your own improver. Thank you for your attention. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2019-11-18-239	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is László Keresztes Lóránt, LMP.
u2019-11-18-240	Thank you for this opportunity, Mr President. The LMP faction is also of the opinion that this proposal is certainly worthy of being put on the agenda, and it is worth discussing. We are talking about a problem, a problem, an energy policy that, for all of us, is facing a very serious crisis, so it is absolutely necessary to get ahead of this crisis and to conduct these debates. However, it is quite clear that basically social aspects are emerging in this proposal, which are, of course, very important, although Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát also pointed out that these problems should basically not be solved with this question or not in this way, but should basically be achieved to the extent that Hungarian wages are higher, so workers should receive adequate wages after their decent work. And obviously, as a green party, we consider it extremely important for proposals to be submitted to the Parliament and, above all, to adopt proposals that also meet the sustainability criteria. So, and I am glad that Attila Mesterházy, as rapporteur, has referred to this, we cannot in any way support a proposal that encourages increased consumption and additional consumption. I therefore believe that an important debate on these issues will be held, that the LMP faction will support the inclusion of the subject series, and I very much hope that if this happens in a way that we can have a substantive debate on this, then we can also make those amendments, and that the rapporteurs will also be open to this, which will make this proposal suitable both for social aspects and for sustainability, so that the Parliament can finally accept it. Thank you. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2019-11-18-241	Thank you very much. I will ask Mr Attila Mesterházy, rapporteur, if you would like to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2019-11-18-242	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I just want to thank you for your support. I hope that Jobbik will support this proposal after the debate, but if this can take the form of a law, then it can be improved by amendments. It would be a success if we could organise an honest debate on this in Parliament, which could end up with a so-called national consensus for Hungarian families. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-11-18-243	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The LMP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the transparency of the state security past and on the amendments to the law necessary to exclude the professional staff of pro-state leaders and dictatorship from the wearing of certain public offices, T/7193. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor on behalf of the rapporteur to Mr László Keresztes, leader of the group, in a five-minute time frame.
u2019-11-18-244	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this bill is well known to all of us, and it is well known about this problem and the shameful omission that has existed since the change of regime. We can also say, if we mention the change of regime, that, in fact, as long as this issue is not properly resolved, it is not possible to consider the change of regime to be completed, so we cannot say that the change of regime has been completed. It is now safe to say, in connection with the debates or attempts to discuss the past few years, that this is also one of the biggest shames of Fidesz-KDNP, which is happening here, that this proposal has been submitted for the 20th time by the LMP faction, and that we have tried for the 20th time to get this into a series of subjects, and that we are able to debate it in substance in plenary or at committee level. This also means that the Fidesz-KDNP Alliance, which once defined itself as an anti-communist, has refused to discuss this issue in substance 19 times without a substantive debate or without its own alternative proposals. So we can say that you have already denied everything, honourable Members, you have once represented, forgotten everything you should never have forgotten, and have forgiven everyone you could never forgive. Obviously, let us be just: all governments that have been regent since the change of regime, all the majority of governors, are responsible, but I think your responsibility is exponentially greater, given that you have always defined yourselves as anti-communists, and your rhetoric has always resulted in you having to support such a proposal, you should have come up with such a proposal, and you have made a pretty clear promise. In 2009, you may recall that MEP Tamás Deutsch made it very clear that the first tasks of the civilian government will be to explore the past of state security, to disclose the agent files. Then, in 2010, a year-and-a-half commitment was specifically formulated, which also concerned this and was not fulfilled. Following this, András Schiffer, the leader of the LMP faction, submitted a proposal to this effect. This was then repeated several times by the Member, and then by everyone who followed him in this position in the LMP, and so this is the occasion, we can say that this is the jubilee, the twentieth time that we have tried to discuss this issue at all. I repeat, you have not tried, on one occasion, to submit your own proposal; you have actually presented appearance solutions and have tried to sweep this issue under the rug, obviously because those who are involved have already built into your ranks, so it is essential for you to cover this past, to cover up those who were involved in maintaining the system of state security and its repressive machinery. And what is this proposal about? I'm saying this in a few words, despite the fact that you've obviously read it, and in recent years, you've had a lot of face-to-face with it. Obviously, the most important element of this proposal is the exploration of the past of state security, the provision of public information, of course accompanied by a continuous online publication. The proposal would provide for the possibility of scientific research. It is very, very important that this proposal obliges the National Remembrance Committee to carry out a very detailed analysis of those who have played a public role since the change of regime, and to demonstrate that those who have so far performed some kind of public authority function have been involved, where appropriate, and if they have been involved, what position they have been in and under what regimes since the change of regime. [[18.40]] We can say that the most important element, which would also be the solution to a very serious failure, is that the proposal proposes that those involved in the maintenance of the State Security Repressive Machines should be excluded from these certain public powers. Obviously, the most important thing is that the Prime Minister, Minister, State Secretary, Deputy State Secretary, Member of Parliament, Mayor, and I might add that, according to the proposal, he could not have been involved in maintaining the repressive regime in this way. Obviously, we do not have any illusions, there are hardly any Fidesz or KDNP representatives in the Parliament, and apparently they are more busy with their phones than they are actually, say, pressing the button and trying to at least argue with this proposal. I am not asking you to agree with this, as is the case with this proposal; I am asking you to be courageous, to support tomorrow with your vote, so that a debate on this proposal can start. I can only promise that we and I think that my fellow opposition Members will be actively and humbly involved in this debate, and that we will be open to any truly improving proposals. I think that this 20th time, perhaps, could give us the opportunity to finally move a little bit about the problem, to start a substantive debate, and to come to Parliament with a proposal that finally settles this shocking and outrageous omission. I think that the memory of the victims of the communist dictatorship is certainly worth it, and it is important for them to do so, because of respect, this proposal must be adopted, put on the agenda and deal with this very, very serious problem since the regime change. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-18-245	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik.
u2019-11-18-246	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. The LMP has submitted this bill for the 20th time, and the Movement for Jobbik Hungary will support it for the 20th time. [[Antal Csárdi applauds.]] Ladies and gentlemen, It's weird that you're probably gonna vote off this bill for the 20th time, and you're gonna vote off your side of the victims for the 20th time. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's right!]] For the twentyth time, they will not side with the victims when they have repeatedly promised that we will finally end the past in Hungary and explore the past that has caused this country a great deal of damage. I could ask you this question: do you have the right to know the life of the victim whose life has been destroyed, whose family has been destroyed, who has been kept in prison, or whose children may not have been able to study in a higher education institution, do you have the right to know who the person who ruined your life was? And I say that there is, and that is what you should be told if you really think that the party-state past must be dealt with. And we could ask why they do not support this bill then. But the answer to that is very simple. They don't support him because most of the people involved are in your ranks. If the agent files were released, most of the former Communist leaders, the people serving most of the former party states, would be in your ranks. But this can only be put off. I promise you, there will come a time in this country when we will release the agent files when the people who have been hiding in your ranks for many years will be caught.
u2019-11-18-247	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Antal Csárdi will take the floor in two minutes.
u2019-11-18-248	Thank you very much for the floor. For the 20th time, we're going to submit this proposal, and you're going to vote it off for the 20th time. I think I could talk about victims now, talk about sinners, but I won't. I do not, because I would rather talk about your policy as a perfect continuation of the work of the Hungarian Socialist Party. True, true, the instruments have been modernised, now the economy is emerging, now more modern tools for surveillance are emerging, but practically nothing has changed. It has now become clear to all of us that you had nothing against the socialist past; you had one problem with not being in power. And that perfectly justifies what we are seeing now, what we have seen in recent years, that you have voted against it twenty times to bring this proposal before this House. But there's no reason for that, and we understand why. László Kövér member of MSZMP, Zsigmond Járai member of MSZMP, György Matolcsy member of MSZMP, János Martonyi member of MSZMP, Pál Schmitt member of MSZMP, Rózsa Hoffmann member of MSZMP, Sándor Pintér member of MSZMP, István Mikola member of MSZMP, János Fónagy member of MSZMP, Béla Turi-Kovács member of MSZMP and Péter Harrach member of MSZMP. If anyone still doesn't understand it, I hope I've been able to shed some light on why you never supported it. I can conclude with one thing and one sentence: you are the perfect ideological and spiritual heirs of the Hungarian Communist Party, the Hungarian Socialist Workers' Party. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-18-249	Thank you. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2019-11-18-250	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I came forward with a speech on 1 March 2005, when there was a debate about a similar law in the Hungarian Parliament. I said this comment on 1 March 2005 and also argued in my comment that I supported the entire public on this issue. That position has not changed since then. It was said that 20 times, I spoke to him almost 20 times and supported this initiative 20 times, and I would like to express my support for this initiative. Such an initiative would probably have had its historic place in 1990, and then it would have been possible to draw a line that would probably have been in line with social justice, historicalism and many other conditions. Nevertheless, better late than never, I am on the same side that we should close this chapter of our history once and for all, and I do not think that this conclusion can be achieved in any other way, in a fairer way than with the power of the entire public. What sanctions should be imposed on this, or how, can be argued about what is the right attitude over the next 30 years, what kind of a law of frustration should be put in order to do so, but to talk about it, to have some kind of publicity on this issue, it is certainly essential that it is not possible to look at those who are politically favourable to someone and thus to attack a political issue. I would say that, however, I would like to indicate that this question is probably not as simple from a professional or a different perspective, but, as we have already done before. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We didn't make it either, but it's worth doing it again, and we really want to close this section of our past with the whole public. Mr President, thank you for your patience.
u2019-11-18-251	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congresswoman Venus Anett.
u2019-11-18-252	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to recite to you what happened at the reunion of the two Germanys, when the East Germans could immediately know who reported on them when and what. Friends, families, local communities. But it's the price of a clean post-college card. No society can save that. The shame of the world is that many people here in the Hungarian Parliament expect when we will bury the last former agent and when we will bury the problem that this society has not solved yet, that we can open a clean slate and finally say that this is the past, we will close it. But you'll have to close the old wounds first. We can't hide them, but we can't cure them. Thank you.
u2019-11-18-253	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr. Group leader, who obviously wishes to reply. [[18.50]]
u2019-11-18-254	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President, and thank you very much to my fellow opposition Members for their supporting words and contributions. During the short debate, I was looking at some of the representatives of the Association of Young Democrats-Christian Democratic People's Party who were present, what they were doing, and whether they were shoving or shoving phones or going into notes or laptops. I don't know what else they're thinking, what they're thinking, I just hope that some of them still have a sense of shame at least when such a debate comes before the Parliament, and they don't really talk to him, and that's probably how they're gonna say no tomorrow. I agree that this issue should indeed have been resolved in 1990, but I am also pleased that there is consensus on the part of the opposition groups that this issue cannot be dismissed until the change of regime can be completed until it is resolved with satisfaction. We have presented this proposal to Parliament 20 times so far, and we will continue to do so at every symbolic holiday, event, memorial. I very much hope that the time will come as soon as possible, as my fellow Member Szilágyi pointed out, that there will be a majority in this Parliament that will correct this omission; it will give you the opportunity to explore the past of state security, and then, I think, finally, Hungarian society will be able to face what a deceitful system has been built here since the change of regime; and what you have built as a national, conservative, anti-communist system is practically rotting from within. I would like to thank my fellow Members once again for their support, and I trust I have no illusions, but I trust that there will again be a number of pro-government Members, like in recent years, who will be brave enough to oppose the decision of their group, the dictatorship of their group, and will vote in favour of inclusion in the series of subjects. Thank you for the opportunity.
u2019-11-18-255	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. We now have the Commission's reports on the proposal to amend certain laws relating to the European Border Registration System and the European Passenger Information and Authorisation System for legal harmonisation purposes and the final amendment proposal. The government referral is T/7692. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee.
u2019-11-18-256	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to inform you, and I will also read this long title on the amendment of the regulation. At its meeting on 14 November 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed T/7692 amending certain laws relating to the European Entry/Exit System and the European Passenger Information and Authorisation System for legal harmonisation purposes. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. It adopted unanimously by 33 votes to none, with no votes in favour and no abstentions. The bill, as the title of the proposal shows, covers basically two subjects. One of the first of these is the introduction of the EES, the entry into force of the EES, and the establishment of the necessary domestic legal environment for the application of this data. This objective concerns a lot of European Union laws and regulations that need to be incorporated into the Hungarian legal system. For a list only: the 2005/99 of the EU Regulations, which concerns the EES, and then the 2017/225. Regulation No 1077/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council, and then Regulation No 877/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council, so there are a lot of European Union rules which are put into national law that we make fit for application in the Hungarian legal order in the framework of the bill. Another objective of the bill is the package of provisions on the short-term establishment of an ETIAS European passenger information and licensing system. In this case, the aim is also to introduce the necessary domestic legislation to implement it, so that this EU package system can be applied. There are also a number of EU regulations currently in force and to be adopted, i.e. 1077, 515 in 2014, Regulation No 399 of 2016 and Regulation No 2226 of 2017 and Regulation of Parliament and of the Council 2018/1240. The legislation that needs to be adapted is therefore very large, very extensive. Probably in close connection with this, there was no specific debate at the Legislative Committee meeting. There was no specific debate, and it follows that the factions supported this bill without exception. It was supported not only in the general debate in the committee but also with unanimous support for the subsequent amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, In the light of what has been said, we can conclude, and I believe by consensus, that we are talking about a number of legislative proposals involving positive changes, and accordingly, in line with this, I call for the support of all factions for the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-11-18-257	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask you to speak on behalf of the rapporteur, Mr Secretary of State. [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] It says no. No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. I'm waiting for congressmen's speeches on the screen. I don't see any contact, which means it's not even two minutes. They do not wish to comment in the remaining timeframes. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I'll ask the author, Mr Secretary of State, if you'd like to express your opinion. (On signal:) Here you go.
u2019-11-18-258	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, By adopting the bill, we comply with our obligations arising from our membership of the European Union, and the Hungarian legislation fully complies with EU legislation when adopting the bill. It also increases the security of Hungarian people and is an important tool for countering terrorism and organised crime. Thank you very much for supporting the proposal in the general debate and in the framework of the TAB. Thank you for your support. I call on the honourable groups, my fellow Members, to support it in the vote as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-18-259	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the implementation of Act C of 2017 on Hungary's central budget for 2018 and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal now follow. The government referral is T/7556. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as a minority and EU agenda item by the Parliament. First, the position of the Committee on Budgets and the opinion expressed by the minority will be presented in a 60-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Szűcs, notary, rapporteur of the committee. [[19.00]]
u2019-11-18-260	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Fellow Members! T/7556 on the implementation of Act C of 2017 on Hungary's central budget for 2018 We are talking about a bill, which is a bill for the closure of the 2018 central budget. The general debate on this bill took place on 24 October. As with the bill on the budget, the bill on closing accounts was discussed by all the standing committees of Parliament and the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities, in addition to the Committee on Budgets, and carried out a detailed debate. All committees have fulfilled this obligation in recent days. As rapporteur for the designated committee, I would like to sum up their views. Each of the negotiating committees concluded that the bill complied with the resolution house rule 44. § (1) of the Act meets the requirements of the Fundamental Law, so the bill complies with the substantive and formal requirements resulting from the Fundamental Law and is in line with the legal system's unity and complies with the obligations arising from international law and European Union law. I would like to say to you that the committee that has not written a separate opinion will indicate that the committee has not written a separate opinion and that it has also adopted the regulatory requirements of the resolution. First I'll read you the opinion of the Committee on Budgets. In 2018, Hungary's total national product increased by 5.1 percent, which was far above the projected 4.3 percent increase. One of the reasons for this is the end-2016 wage increase and tax reduction agreement, under which both the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage have increased significantly. The financial situation of households has improved noticeably, and the growth in consumption of 4.9 percent is also good. Investment was the second pillar of national total product growth, while investments in the national economy increased by 17.1 percent in total, which was significantly higher than the 12.9 percent previously estimated. The performance of the economy also reflects its impact on the labour market, with a significant increase in employment in 2018 of about 1.1 percent. The number of employees in the competition sector increased by 2 percent, which meant a decrease of about 3 percent in the public sector. We can say that four and a half million people are now working and paying taxes in Hungary, with an employment rate of 69.2 percent. In the previous years prices increased by 2.8 percent on average, thus the rate of inflation was lower than the planned 3 percent in 2018. The rise was mainly due to an increase in food prices. The proportion of gross government debt to the national total product decreased to 70,2% by the end of 2018 and was still above 80 per cent in 2011. The main strategic objective of the Hungarian government debt management remains to reduce the debt ratio, increase the stock of private sovereign debt and reduce the foreign exchange debt ratio. With regard to the foreign exchange ratio, an even more serious breakthrough was achieved, from 52 percent at the end of 2011 to 23 percent, and from 65 percent in the hands of foreigners to 36 percent. In 2018, the total deficit was 2.3 per cent compared to the total national product. As regards fiscal policy, it can be concluded that in 2018, there were significant changes affecting both the revenue and expenditure side, but they did not worsen the lack of a central budget. The revenue from the budget was higher than the appropriations. There was an increase in most taxes, such as corporate tax, personal income tax, VAT, excise duty, financial transaction tax. Opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The total expenditure of the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade for 2018 was significantly higher than in previous years. This growth was mainly driven by a dynamic expansion of the amount available to people at foreign representations, the investment promotion target, the tied aid loan and the external economic development target. With EUR 4.3 billion in investment incentives, some 17 thousand new jobs have been created. The investment decision of BMW is of paramount importance, but in addition to the automotive industry, the business service provider and the electronics sector have also achieved significant results. The 4.2 percent increase in exports also commends the success of the Ministry's external economic activity. The Ministry also successfully performed its classic diplomatic tasks, such as the Presidency coordination of the Visegrád Group: it opened five delegations and prepared three further openings. The funding of Hungarian minorities living in neighbouring countries is still a crucial cornerstone of the portfolio's budget. Within the framework of the economic development programmes for the preservation of foreign parts, the Ministry provided support in Vojvodina amounting to HUF 10.6 billion and HUF 5.1 billion in the Highlands and HUF 4.1 billion in Transcarpathia. Opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development. The Hungarian economy started moving towards a healthier and more balanced growth structure in 2013. National total product data also show a stable structure. The 2018 Budget Act established the development expenditure of the central subsystem, its domestic accumulation and development expenditure in HUF 4217 billion. During the past year, the Modern Cities programme continued from Hungarian sources, which serves not only the county seats but also their regions as well. The development and modernisation of the road network continued. The family support programme has helped to strengthen the demographic situation of the nation, while the Hungarian village programme has helped the people living in the countryside to gain access to basic services. Opinion of the Economic Committee. Our economic achievements in 2018 are also reflected by the fact that the international rating agencies have also classified our country's rating in a BBB category above one category. Government measures put the Hungarian economy on a permanent growth path, which is well demonstrated by the fact that in the last quarter of 2018, the growth of the national total product in the sixth quarter of 2018 exceeded 4 percent on an annual basis, and in 2018 Hungary had the third fastest growth within the EU, which is based on solid macro-fundaments, while the equilibrium processes also show a positive picture. Hungary's vulnerability has decreased significantly in recent years. The National Security and Defence Committee also discussed it and considered it appropriate to comply with the House Rules of the Decision. Opinion of the People's Welfare Committee. In the youth field, the sector has paid particular attention to child and youth camping under the Erzsébet programme and has addressed the implementation of anti-discrimination programmes. As regards pensions, the basic objectives of the social security pension scheme, as well as the stability and sustainability of the pension system, have been achieved in the course of the implementation of the budget of the Pension Insurance Fund for 2018. [[19.10]] It is important to note that in 2018 the budget of the Pension Insurance Fund showed a surplus of HUF 0.3 billion. According to inflation targets, the pension increase in January 2018 was 3 percent, with an annual expenditure impact of HUF 94.1 billion. In November 2018, a pension premium or a one-off allowance was also paid. The pension premium charged to the Pension Insurance Fund was HUF 33.5 billion for 2018 and HUF 2.4 billion for the one-off benefit. The Committee on Culture, the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, as well as the Committee on Justice have also established the conformity of the bill with its rules of procedure. Opinion of the Committee on Agriculture. Also in 2018, emissions increased, added value increased, profitability improved, investments increased and net exports reached high levels, the proportion of processed products could also increase within agricultural exports. Agriculture emissions reached a new record level in 2018 thanks to continuous growth. The sector's output in 2018 is HUF 2720 billion, an increase of 4.8 percent in current prices compared to the previous year. It is clear from the closing figures that the opposition's continuously maintained vision of strategically flawed agricultural governance since 2010 is still unable to prove itself. It is important to note that, by its nature, there are and will always be challenges to agriculture, there are issues to be addressed in certain areas, but as we have dealt with them, we are still prepared to address the challenges. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Last page, Lajos?]] Opinion of the National Assembly Committee. 2018 brought a new impetus in national policy, which is confirmed by the 2018 accounts. We have been able to increase the resources to support Hungarian communities abroad. The resources available in the Bethlen Gábor Fund increased by more than HUF 50 billion during the year to continue the support programmes of the State Secretariat for National Policy, which allowed dozens of developments to take place in the Carpathian Basin. It is a welcome development that the government has also decided on the third phase of the programmes, so that improvements can continue. 2018 was also the year of Hungarian families abroad. From January 2018 onwards, maternity support and early life support for young people were also available to foreign Hungarians. Within the framework of the programme, the year of Hungarian families abroad, besides the patronage network, several good practices in Hungary were extended at the Carpathian Basin level. With the help of the program, we helped Hungarian families abroad with HUF 1 billion. In order to further strengthen the single economic space in the Carpathian Basin, the implementation of the economic development plans of the Hungarian regions abroad continued with the supervision of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. Through financial and professional support and networking, we have taken further steps towards a more competitive Carpathian Basin. In the agricultural area, too, there has been great progress towards a united nation: in 2018, the villager programme in the Carpathian Basin was launched, which increased the amount of agricultural subsidies for Hungarians abroad by more than HUF 400 million. In 2018, a number of new initiatives were launched for Hungarians living in diaspora. For the first time, a call for proposals has been launched to ensure the continuous operation of the programmes of Hungarian organizations and weekend Hungarian schools operating in the diaspora. Within the framework of the Diaspora programme of the Rákóczi Association, a thousand young Hungarians living in the diaspora could reach the mother country in 2018. Within the framework of the Sándor Kőrösi Csoma programme, last year a church scholarship was established to remedy the shortage of priests and clergymen in the diaspora. The 2018 closing report proves that we have managed to make the unity of the Hungarian nation feasible in everyday life. Instead of a country, we are implementing the support of a nation, which is becoming limitless in more and more areas. Opinion of the Enterprise Development Committee. The wage increase and tax reduction agreement concluded at the end of 2016 significantly increased both employment and the incentives and competitiveness of companies. The minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage have increased noticeably. At the same time, employers' burdens have been significantly reduced. As a result of these measures, average earnings increased by more than 10% in 2018 compared to the previous year. The noticeable increase in real wages has helped to boost domestic demand, resulting in a 4.9 percent increase in household consumption expenditure. The Committee on European Affairs has also established legal regularity. Mr President, Mr. Secretary of State! Dear fellow Members, On the basis of the summarised opinions expressed, and by studying the draft closing act, we can conclude that the 2018 budget has helped families to thrive, that more people have had jobs, and wages have also increased noticeably. All these social policy objectives have been achieved without the budgetary stability being put at risk. And what we have already said at the committee's meeting is that, in accordance with its good habit, the government still did not hide certain items in the salad law, according to all old traditions and socialist traditions, into the accounts. Only such an amendment was made within the closing account, which arranged the support of church schools. So I would like to thank the Ministry for the work they have done on closing the budget. Please, Mr. Secretary, give your colleagues our appreciation. I would also ask my fellow Members to support the draft closing act after hearing the summing proposals. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's right! A round of applause from government parties and Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-18-261	Thank you, Congressman Lajos Szűcs, notary. Dear Parliament, They have 30 minutes to present minority opinions. First, I give the floor to Congressman László Varju.
u2019-11-18-262	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Minority opinions are now taking place, in essence, in the committee and in the committees, against the beautiful words that my fellow Member has just said, which are the minority opinions that have drawn attention to how much better it could have been done and how much more could have been done for families, Hungary, and that is why we can sum up our debate on this in this sense here at Parliament's meeting. Of course, this will no longer be so pleasant to Mr Secretary of State, since he knows a good part of the criticism, of course, because he can already have information about it from committee meetings. However, we continue to believe that the bill does not meet the professional requirements of legislation, as I said at the committee meeting. In recent months, the Minister of Finance may have made conflicting statements following the processes set out in the discharge law, where he talked about what an excellent opportunity there is, as we have heard in recent minutes, and in the next period he talked about what a crisis is coming and what steps must be taken. [[19.20]] Based on such a situation, it can therefore be said that the design work that has resulted in an increase in revenues of HUF 1200 billion in 2018 or higher expenditure cannot be regarded as normal. There is a deviation of more than 2.8 percent of GDP that the government could not think ahead of. While we could be glad that there was more revenue, this would have given us more opportunities in the taxed country than I said, citizens could have benefited from more services and benefits from the state. Processes have been underestimated, for example, in the planning of pensions. They could expect a much smaller increase in pensions and later try to make up for it in different ways, but we believe that they have tried to resolve this in the electoral budget. In addition, the result of this is that the decisions on spending 1200 billion HUF were withdrawn from Parliament's powers. We remember that the governor's majority passed a law that the government can divide the reserve in its own jurisdiction, and so every day, every day, another and more spending appears. That's how it was last year. Everyone in the Hungarian Gazette can follow up on this. In many cases, the source could have been used for something else. For example, it could have been a reduction in public debt, which could already be below 70% if spending was avoided at the end of the year. Social inequality continues to deepen, large state systems are on the verge of inability to function. We see what decisions are being made, just so that they can maintain them, at least seemingly, because the government, such as Posta or MÁV, does not receive any kind of support in such a way that it can help function on the merits. The government does not think that health and education are important, and the decision-making mechanism shows this. The state's modernisation of what it would have had the opportunity to do with this extra money has not been implemented, so it is no wonder that in such a hectic and ever-changing environment, the vast majority of the country feels in complete uncertainty. Otherwise, instead of providing money, people would feel legal certainty, and if there were a rule of law, perhaps their population policy aspirations would also be much ahead. In this connection, I would like to continue with the minority opinion expressed in the Committee on Welfare, up to the specific ones. One of the great scams of 2018 was the holiday meal for children in need, for which HUF 6.6 billion was planned, and finally only HUF 3.3 billion. There is no explanation of the reason for this, while there was a significant underachievement of 50 percent. In fact, in the general justification, it is stated that the state has put a great emphasis on supporting holiday catering, which the municipalities have been carrying out as a mandatory task since 2016. There are two options: much fewer people, even half as many as the government had previously planned, or not all those who asked for it received food. It is certain that many of those who would in principle be entitled to it have been left out, because either they do not know the possibility or the municipality does not organise the care, so they do not ask for it. This is supported by the data provided on written questions. It is typical of the budget as a whole that nearly HUF 13 billion was spent on the support of crèches, as it was accepted. In fact, during the year, the associated lines were significantly mixed. This does not suggest that this was an act of a family-friendly government. So they spent a lot less on crèches. One of the key elements of social assistance is the pension minimum, which is HUF 28 500. This has not changed this year, nor has the amount of subsidies replacing employment, HUF 22 800. But the amount of public health care and the amount of baby bond transfer didn't change this year either. The amount of the two-year allowance for the regular child protection benefit has not changed either. The budget for local government support has not increased this year either. Let's talk a little bit about family benefits. The amount of child, ged and maternity allowance has not changed this year, all of which have been left alone. Thus, they could not benefit from the opportunities for these families, I stress, while they gained additional income of HUF 1200 billion and spent even more. I would like to add that, while demographic numbers are causing the population to increase, here are the numbers, despite what you have said, that the number of children is falling. That's why they can't use it. Surprisingly, the spending on the baby care fee, the children's allowance, was also underachieved by HUF 2.8 billion, but the childcare fee and the children's expenses exceeded the original amount by more than 12 billion. The increase of the family benefit in 2019 continued in 2018, and they acted accordingly. For the first time in this year, the government spent more on family tax and contribution allowances than on family allowances. Despite all the CSOKs, the planned HUF 236 billion was only HUF 193 billion instead of HUF 236 billion. This was the case in 2018, even if you can see otherwise in the advertisements. The operating side of the pension scheme's expenditure cannot be interpreted as indicated in the proposal because it cannot be attributed to the actual cost of its operation. One of the reasons for this is the fragmentation of the single management system and the distribution of professional and administrative tasks. Pension claims are currently being assessed under other management and other management bodies and pensions are being paid elsewhere. It is important to point out that according to the information provided in the chapter of the Pension Insurance Fund, in 2018, the expenditure on war care benefits amounted to HUF 14 billion, while a year earlier the budget spent HUF 8 billion 667 million on this. There's more than 60 percent increase. On a fair basis, HUF 198.4 million for pension benefits, HUF 785 million for equity pension increases, HUF 583 million for one-off benefits, of 600, were used. According to the chapter's justification, here's what happened. In 2018, 60 121 people applied for equity pension increases, of which 34 725 were met. The performance rate was 58 percent compared to the number of applications evaluated, with a monthly average increase per capita of HUF 3539. I would add that, in our experience, this figure is extremely low in itself, all of which relate to the per capita amount, and the number of people who could benefit from this support. Let's also talk about disability and rehabilitation benefits: HUF 22.4 billion was less spent on this than it should have been under the estimate. In fact, the framework also included the amount of the so-called one-off allowance for the disabled, amounting to HUF 4.3 billion, in connection with the pension premium. [[19.30]] The reason for the reduction in expenditure is by reducing and reducing the number of employees. The health insurance fund's equity fund spent HUF 128.7 million on the establishment of invalidity and rehabilitation benefits, the exceptional disability benefit introduced in 2018, for which HUF 150 million was intended at the time of the adoption of the budget. According to the chapter volume, on average 255 people received this care each month. Finally, the Welfare Committee points out that the State Audit Office has repeatedly stated that, in the chapter of the EMMI chapter, the audit found errors of reliability in the case of expenditure incurred under the articles on family allowances and on income replacement and supplementary social assistance, as, despite the provisions of the Accounting Act, no supporting documents were available to establish the benefits paid, the total value of the reliability errors exceeded the materiality level by which the expenditure data were not sufficiently reliable for this fund. On this basis, I think it is clear that those with a minority opinion cannot support this part of the closing accounts or, in this sense, the adoption of the law. Finally, I would also like to draw attention to the summary, establishment of the Committee on Sustainable Development, of minority opinions, and we will also use 30 minutes here in the division of labour on the accounts of the work of other committees and fellow Members. All in all, the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development is that environmental expenditure is not even on a thank-you basis in the national environmental programme, the nature conservation plan, the national biodiversity conservation strategy or the national climate change strategy, which deals with the enforcement of the rights of Hungarians to a healthy environment, which are also declared in the Fundamental Law, the protection of natural resources, and which have a number of tasks to be carried out, that is why nothing has been achieved. They can put nice strategies in front of us, decide about it, create a view, and otherwise not talk about fulfillment. As a result, this work was classified as insufficient in terms of the use of the resources of the 2018 central budget, the protection of natural resources, the sustainable use of natural resources, the improvement of environmental quality and the mitigation of climate change and adaptation to expected impacts after the closure of 2018. Thank you very much for your attention, and, Mr President, I would like to give the opportunity to my fellow Members. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-18-263	Thank you very much, and I'll book you: 15 minutes and 15 seconds. I give the floor to Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn.
u2019-11-18-264	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will put forward a brief minority opinion. The 2018 budget, which is confirmed by the closing accounts, was a budget for increasing the missed opportunities and the debt pile for the future. Despite the additional revenue and expenditure of a thousand billion, the key deficit areas have not been improved. The Fidesz government has significantly increased deficits and debt in the areas of education, health and the environment. Education is deliberately cut down, the respect of teachers and their staff has decreased, and there is a huge shortage of teachers, especially in areas where they are most needed. This is indeed an achievement when budget revenues increased by 1170 billion, and its expenditures increased by 1260 billion. Many have already said a lot about the deliberate reduction of education. There has also been a lot of talk about the financing gap in health care, the collapse that has already occurred in several places, and the 24,000 our countrymen who, according to their own declaration, die of failure and failure of the government. I would therefore like to highlight two areas, which are also the stepchildren of the government, and it is clear from the accounts that there is no change in this. These two areas are environmental protection and the protection of natural resources, as well as social care and the pension situation. The same is true in health care, where, due to the lack and ageing of general practitioners, the shortage of specialists from surgeons to psychologists and nurses is devastating. Lack of resources for tasks in the area of municipalities has increased, migration has continued, the countryside is still empty. The government has increased the problems to be solved by supporting the poor structure of agriculture and its environmentally destructive ways, without real development in the countryside. At the same time, other areas of marginal national interest are expanding: sports targets were spent double the planned framework, but sporttao was 128 billion. This process is amazing. There will be insufficient additional resources for critical areas even when budget revenues have increased. The missed opportunities are not coming back, the global economy is slowing down, there is a crisis. The end of this abundance of EU funds, they were much lower than planned already in 2018, had to be replaced by domestic funds. You can't take the concrete out of the stadiums and feed it to the needy. We know the government's opinion on the protection of the environment, because it has repeatedly made it almost completely clear: it considers the protection of the environment and its resources, the institutional system and legislation to be used for this to be an unnecessary burden, which hinders economic development. This is a damaging, destructive approach, for it is not progress that is destroying. You can't eat the money, you can't eat the stadium, you can't eat the fruit trees. Pensions have increased in the last ten years with inflation rates and only with the increase in real wages in 2018, with pensions not following, and have therefore been significantly devalued in relative terms. Accompaniment is not a solution for millions of people living close to the minimum of living. Moreover, neither premium or election Elisabeth voucher distributions are included in the pension. An immediate, lump sum increase would be necessary to prevent dissipation and poverty. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-18-265	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congresswoman Venus Anett.
u2019-11-18-266	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me now to give you a summary of my speech on behalf of the Liberal Party. While the government has been talking about ensuring sustainable development through its budgets for a long time, we find that, if we look at the provision of public goods, there are plenty of crisis sectors that we can talk about in Hungary today, such as education and health, such as sectors that are intended to do for those in need, such as the social sectors that my fellow Members have already talked about, and I am always very specific about the fact that social groups that are in some way forced to live their lives differently from normal conditions, such as a sick child, a disabled child, or a relative who is in need of home care, these are social groups that do not benefit sufficiently from an increase in GDP of more than 5 per cent. This is unacceptable only because, at the moment, we are spending one in six forints on this huge state machine and its maintenance, so my claim is that, on the one hand, a smaller and more efficient state would be needed, and, on the other hand, it would be possible to get much more on the fallen social groups. It is no exaggeration to say that in today's Hungary, he practically buys human dignity and equal treatment for the middle class money, because unfortunately, these two principles are not reflected in the current budget or in the budget that we are continuing to discuss at the moment. It is very important that the methods of the family-friendly government did not bring the results that we expected in birth. There is no dispute between us, government and opposition, that population policy is a public matter, and if we find that the fertility rate is not high enough in a country, then it must be done. [[19.40]] But what we find in the free world is that in societies that are more advanced and happier than we are, the birth rate has started to return to about or at least close to the desirable 2.1, where equality between men and women is all better guaranteed. At the moment, the Hungarian government does not spend anything on this, and what it spends is also extremely inefficient. Mr Secretary of State argued in his expozee that the government was engaged in the largest nursery construction programme ever, but it is also visible that we have seen it at earlier stages of the debate, and I have learned from Mr State Secretary that the supply side of the construction industry is not sufficient in this sense, so it is not possible to undertake the appropriate number of nursery constructions that society needs. At the moment, we see that about 80,000 seats are missing, hundreds of thousands of the size of the social group that can't fit back into the wage labour market in time or even at all after having a child. This mainly concerns young women. That is why I have already made the proposal in the budget debate, which we are discussing now, that it would be important to involve the private sector to a greater extent than at present. I hope that in the coming years we will be able to find a resting point in this debate and move forward. It is important that both Mr State Secretary and my fellow Members spoke on the part of the government about the appreciation of public sector workers and career models. It is true, by the way, what Secretary of State Bence Rétvári says that more young people are entering health care, primarily in the nursing profession, but at the same time we see their chorus taking the form of an hourglass. That means most of the 30s and 40s are missing from the sick beds. There is a very simple explanation for this: simply these people are being paid a price for serving other people that they cannot honor their own families. We cannot ask those who we expect to cure our patients, or even to relieve the pain of those who cannot be cured. It is extremely important that we pay attention to them in all budgets, but unfortunately this is not happening. The same is true of state employees. It is not possible to talk about the respect of public servants when we sometimes see a regional shortage of labour, e.g. at government windows, where there is a need to regroup workers from another city in order to ensure that the service is adequate and that it is possible to go in and do business at all. So, at times, citizens themselves have encountered the fact that the insufficient salaries of public sector workers have led these people to the point where they no longer want to work in the public sector. It is important to talk about how, of course, teachers' salaries have increased, medical salaries have increased, but at times, we find that complete hospital departments are quitting when a furniture store opens nearby, and they go to the store shop to keep their families from doing so. For example, it is important to talk about the fact that, given the net income actually appearing, the starting salary of the largest fast food chain is HUF 160,000 net and a training pedagogue is HUF 130,000 net; a starting nurse's net basic salary is less than HUF 100,000, and a 30-year experience does not increase above HUF 180,000 net. This is not sustainable, and I think that when there is more than 5 percent economic growth, these people in any way need to be able to expect much more wages in addition to greater prestige. The Secretary of State also spoke about energy efficiency, and they talked about sustainable development. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, at the moment, Hungary's objectives, which it has undertaken and, by the way, are far from satisfactory in terms of what the other Member States in the European Union are doing, our plans for 2030 and 2050 will also be put at risk in Hungary, which is moving on the current course. It is very important that the task-based funding system for municipalities is a forward-looking system, but this is a significant corruption network, according to current experience. We know of a place where members who had a very close family relationship were introduced from the immediate environment of the local government to the kindergarten building, and from there they became indestructible. I think that, Mr Secretary of State, and with respect, I would also ask you here in plenary to pay attention to this, because the high level of our corruption rate deprives this country of significant resources. I would also like to mention public confidence and conclude my thoughts. Taxpayers rightly expect corruption to be curbed so that their taxes can go to the right place. I think it would be very important, at least to reduce public confidence, to reduce corruption not only at local level but also at national level. Thank you for listening.
u2019-11-18-267	Thank you, Congresswoman Anett. Dear Parliament, I ask the author, Mr Péter Benő Banai, that he wishes to reply now or at the end. [[On the sign of Péter Benő Banai:]] At the end. Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Ritter Imre, a representative of nationalities who has been asked by the committee representing the nationalities to present the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language and then translate them into Hungarian. You have the floor.
u2019-11-18-268	Thank you. Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt bezüglich des Gesetzesvorschläges Nr. T/7556. über die Durchführung des Haushaltsgesetzes für Jahr 2018, Nr. C. aus Jahr 2017 im Zusammenhang mit den Nationalitäten übergreifende Teilen erörtere. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to express our position on the implementation of Act C of 2017 on Hungary's Central Budget for 2018 T/7556. Bill No.2 on the parts of Hungary affecting nationalities. At its meeting on 10 October 2019, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary discussed the bill and held a detailed debate on the provisions of the House Regulations 44-45. In accordance with the provisions of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. Our committee unanimously stated that the bill was in line with the provisions of the house rules 44. § (1) and proposes to the Parliament for adoption. The central budget support of the nationalities living in Hungary was less than HUF 4 billion in 2014. Following the parliamentary representation of nationalities, the support was increased by HUF 2 billion in 2015, HUF 2 billion in 2016, HUF 678 million in 2017 and HUF 1 billion in HUF 688 million in the 2018 Central Budget Act. Overall, this resulted in an increase in the sum of 13 nationalities in Hungary to nearly HUF 10.5 billion in the 2018 Central Budget Act compared to less than HUF 4 billion in 2014. These increases have enabled us to ensure the basic conditions necessary for the normal functioning of national authorities, ethnic associations and ethnic institutions. For our future as a nationality, the national minority educator programme launched from January 2018 is of paramount importance, with the first step being the multiple increase in the nationality supplement and the second step being the introduction of a minority educator's scholarship. At the start, from 1 September 2018, we had a scholarship agreement with 84 first-grade children of the ethnic kindergarten teacher, and in the last few weeks by the 2019-20 academic year, with 317 students of the minority educator. [[19.50]] On this basis, in view of the entire four-year cycle, I would like to thank without reservation the Hungarian Government and the party factions, as well as the entire Hungarian Parliament and all Members for the increase in minority support granted throughout the cycle, which has not been the case in the last eight decades. At the same time, all these positive, truly historical changes are not contradicted by the fact that we still have a lot of tension, problems, challenges and challenges to solve. There are many tasks to be solved because after the serious omissions of the last seven to eight decades, we started from a depth that even positive changes in three to four years cannot compensate from one year to the next. But the essence was ensured by this four-year cycle, we were included in the Hungarian Parliament, in the legislative process, and we were able to take our own fate into our own hands. We know what our goals are, and we are determined to achieve them for the future of our children and grandchildren. On this basis, the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary agreed with the State Audit Office's report on T/7556. A report on the monitoring of the implementation of Act C of 2017 on Hungary's central budget for 2018 is proposed to Parliament for adoption. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit!
u2019-11-18-269	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. This will be readable on the display. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik.
u2019-11-18-270	Mr President, Dear House, If the atmosphere of a single Member were relevant in any way in this debate, I would be offended by the fact that long production reports have been read here, which we have already discussed in the Commission debate. So the structure of the debate is already poor, and a substantial in-depth debate is, as appropriate, excluded from 45 minutes of production report, whether it be any side's position. But I would also like to add that the genre of closing accounting is not typically such that, compared to the general debate, our position is radically reversed, or that, on the basis of new knowledge, we can take a different approach to closing accounts. I think that's perfectly logical and acceptable. Obviously, the government's budgetary policy has not changed either, so it does not discuss and plan a budget after the adoption of a closing account, but there is a delay of several months between the two. We can have a lot of professional discussions about how much forints this will cost. I continue to say that there are budget lines affected by the HUF exchange rate, let us say that in the case of social transfers, it would be easier to plan if we could count on a more current HUF exchange rate, but this is a longer professional debate, which we have already had in essence in the general debate. It is clear to me from the winning reports and production reports that although the government is trying to explain the certificate in terms of macro numbers, the people who are all about budget planning are barcodes in the eyes of the government. I also see that, while examining inflation data, they have simply failed to examine the extra burden a typical Hungarian person, a typical Hungarian pensioner, is in the process of purchasing his typical consumer basket and consuming it, compared to the previous period. He's not facing a 2.8 percent increase in a year. If you only look at the price of basic foods superficially, someone knows, you see that the most exposed social groups face extra difficulties, and the benefits of family policy that I support tend to come up from the upper middle class. Mr. Secretary, let me give you an example of the closing. Baby shower, not support, but loan in terms of turning to me for a young couple, having children, they are about to give birth, in a few months, the newborn will arrive. In their case, they wanted to borrow the baby shower that was invented by the government. The lady, as a Katás entrepreneur, could not or did not cover her social security status for a month for administrative reasons some two years ago. Once again, as a back-to-back entrepreneur, as a taxpayer, you've missed a month. They did not make it possible for him to do it backwards and afterwards, so he could not simply hire the baby shower; he was cut off by the financial institution for that purpose as well as its order. There can be reports of victory about this, and I do not dispute the dedication and determination of Secretary of State Novák on this issue, only when he tells us here today during a fidesz self-examination in the answer how many people use these blessings, how good it is, again I say that these typical Hungarian situations of life are left out. When we here in Parliament say that there are such problems, anomalies, no answers, no correction in this respect. This young couple still can't make use of this really useful, not to say support, but a loan. I say this also by maintaining the possibility that a debt crisis such as a foreign exchange loan from the CSOK and its associates, i.e. typically from the credit mass and not from the grants, could also be triggered in the event of adverse macro-environment and adverse spill-over processes. Don't be like this, don't be right, but unfortunately, we have to deal with the danger of this in Hungarian consumer protection. However, I also see that the government has not taken any meaningful steps in terms of the housing crisis, and this affects the only area that I am not saying is that I care, but which is the key to everything. This is the only area of the demographic issue. In Hungary, I see that the attitude of citizens can now be divided into two sections along a huge fault line. On one side are those who are interested in economic processes and deal with GDP data, macro data, either at the price of immigration or organised external resource collection. On the other hand, there are responsible citizens who do not want to allow the dissolution of local identity, cultural values and others in Hungary, either by immigration or, say, by the relocation of hundreds of thousands of foreign workers from the government. I see this is the fault line, although it can be found, the government is jumping from one side to the other. With one act, it's on one side of the fault line and the other side, and it doesn't respond to demographic challenges. The Government of Hungary simply does not recognize that the Hungarian people are not automatics. Thus, it is impossible to achieve statistical results with spilled, scattered, wasted money if the everyday sense of security, the predictability of legislation and the whole climate are not lent to the same countrymen and, thirdly, the housing crisis is not eliminated. This would have been one of the key areas of the budgetary debate and closure debate, how it could occur that in such a key area over 230 billion in the promised housing support system and 193 billion forints would be realised. So it would require an explanation of why this gap arises, and why this intermediate tens of billions of HUF has migrated, why the Hungarian people, the Hungarian youth, did not serve their housing goals, why the Government of Hungary is staying on a rental program, why it has not replaced the state support of the liquidated LTP with a fair and correct savings solution for young people. Because we are very happy to hear the victory reports, but what we see is that, unfortunately, this government has failed for every demographic indicator. I wish we didn't have to talk about that. Madam State Secretary spoke today of an increase in the number of marriages, and I am pleased about that. I sincerely support the intention of a secretary of state in this direction, but this is not a demographic indicator. Demography is a stubborn thing, a profession. In all demographic indicators, the number of live births is understandable and expected to have fallen, since it would have been unprofessional to expect the Government of Hungary, Mr. Secretary of State, to have a large number of children from a base of relatively few women of childbearing age. This would not have been professional, nor would it have been fair to expect an explosion in the number of live births from this or any previous or any subsequent government. But the fertility rate is a relatively good indicator, and so do you, because it has been referred to for years. Then let's figure out why the joyful rise of this has now gone into decline. So how come the beneficiary social groups and cohorts simply didn't bring the demographic results that the government expected of them? This is our shared responsibility, Mr State Secretary, with all my fellow Members who are in this Chamber, we must solve this together, and we should even find a pan-European solution. Thirty years from now, believe me, that's the only thing they're gonna want us to do. There may be footnotes in the history books on land and very important agricultural issues, about what and how we decided, where appropriate, how we almost started foreign acquisitions, but what matters most and what really matters is what we could do with the demographic issue. [[20.00]] Secretary of State, you are on the darkest pages of the history books in this area. I don't want to join this, and I want us to work this out together. We want to help you in this way, as we have helped you in all matters of national strategy, but the denial of the problem prevents us from resolving this with a positive, common purpose. I therefore ask you to respond to what you want to do with the housing crisis, how you want to support young people and how you want to give a Hungarian youth the opportunity to bear the costs of current higher education, and to bear the cost of housing, and to have such mobility that, somehow, as a young person in the countryside, he continues his studies in the capital and exits the labour market. I do not want to have to turn the young Hungarians into world travelers, who will find the calculation abroad and perhaps come back here, I would like the Hungarian system not only to operate from the upper middle class. I do not want to offend you, especially you, nor my fellow Members, but the idea that the benefits of the support system will affect you from the upper middle class, and this will run down, leaking to all the other social groups, is a pure neoliberal way of thinking. Nowhere in the world can a model be seen that this neoliberal dogma has been achieved, and indeed, these above-listed blessings, such as syrup, would have been filtered into all the social layers. It's a faulty way; I say that when we're at evictions, I say that even when we're standing up for foreign exchange creds, I say that. It should not be selective with regard to a social group, should not choose the future lucky ones, but should be given fair living opportunities. So I can only accept the division of society in this respect along the fault line between builders and destroyers, and the builders must be supported in everything, and destroyers must be helped to become builders. This may be the only acceptable methodology, and I would like to subject the planning of the budget to this, once again, in the interests of the Hungarian future, in order to end the housing crisis, and in order to ensure that Hungary can still be a Hungarian dominant medium and place in 50 years' time, as this is our normal, common goal. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-18-271	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Congressman Attila Mesterházy.
u2019-11-18-272	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The implementation of Hungary's central budget for 2018 essentially paints a positive picture of the country's economic situation, and this is what my better fellow Member spoke about, as well as my fellow Member Fidesz, but we see it, and we have therefore also drawn up a number of minority opinions from the Economic Committee in the framework of many other committees, that the benefit of these favourable macroeconomic indicators does not adequately benefit the country. I could say that the privileged few take part in it, or they are the only ones benefiting from it, and the masses who would prefer to have greater help and, where appropriate, greater public care, will certainly benefit from these positives to a much lesser extent. What do I mean? If we look at this budget, what we see is that the proportion of welfare expenditure has fallen in line with GDP in the light of these figures, which is very unpleasant for health, education or the social sector. There are areas that have received much more resources, such as sports, culture or the support of churches, of which, it could be said that there are many positive directions, and, where appropriate, it is right that these areas should be given greater resources, but still some kind of priority is always reflected in the budget, the budget prepared by the given government, and indeed, this budget does not clearly reflect the priority that would be beneficial for the Hungarian people. We said that we asked for a number of amendments to the proposal that more money should be spent in the areas of health, education and the social sphere, because there is no way to miss the problems and problems in health. There is no day when we do not read an article about the problems and difficulties faced by health care, what patients and healthcare workers may have to endure along their daily work. That is why we are saying that this budget was not drawn up on the basis of appropriate priorities. In my view, and we believe that it is quite distorted, or I might say that it is perverse social policy or social policy objectives that this budget has been drawn up, because it really seems to you that you think that from the rich, prosperity will come down to the poorer social groups. Such a social policy has not worked anywhere in the world, it has not brought its fruit anywhere. Prime Minister is fond of referring to the fact that he is not envious of wealthy people, because he expresses the performance of putting more money on the table, we have heard such an argument in this House, and in fact, the person who works much more is doing much more, it is perfectly normal for him to receive more wages, have greater wealth, and we have learned from János Lázár that everyone is worth as much as he has. If this were the case, as you say, it would be a very fair society, but we know that it is certainly not the case in Hungary that those who earn more are guaranteed to work more, or have even greater performance, or have greater social usefulness. Some gas mechanics, of course, perform quite fantastically, so they also grow quite fantastically. Today's news is that Lőrinc Mészáros's wealth has reached two billion dollars, which is a fantastic achievement, and probably the success story, the knowledge that was accumulated in Lőrinc Mészáros, will certainly be taught at Corvinus University, because if someone is such a successful economic manager and expert, then he will have a cathedral at the university where I graduated from, as well as the State Secretary myself. But it is likely that the network of connections can be the keeper of this success rather than the economic performance, or the work that the nation's gas mechanic has put on the table to keep me at this specific example. For this reason, we considered the budget "18" unacceptable. We continue to think the same way, even when we can analyse its effects and results even after it has been fulfilled, and we see that this budget has indeed exacerbated the situation that has already taken place. So there is no better situation for health care, no better situation for education, and no better position for the social area, neither for the respect of workers there, nor for working conditions or infrastructure issues. We think that a budget is rated by what social policy goals it wants to achieve, and these social policy goals that have been set are unacceptable to us. This position has never changed in the course of the debate, and there is, in fact, an irreconcilable difference of opinion between the conservative side and progressive left-wing policy. We regard economic policy more as an instrument, an instrument needed to achieve social policy objectives, so that we can improve public services, and the development of public services is important precisely because, where appropriate, taxes or contributions become an investment by a citizen, a taxpayer, not as a simple fact of torture or a compulsory tax to be paid. Therefore, we continue to hold the same opinion as we have said many times before that this budget was not in the national interest, it was not in the interest of the broad masses of Hungarian people, because it had not set the right social policy goals, and therefore it could not achieve them in a positive way. On the other hand, corruption has constantly dominated this budget, as well as the budgets that preceded it, and without this corruption, the Hungarian budget could otherwise be in an even better position, and more resources could be spent on the right and good economic policy goals. [[20.10]] Unfortunately, we can see that this has not changed in terms of the 2019 budget. I think that in a year's time, when we are going to evaluate the budget of 19 in any form, it can be said in the same way, and we do not even see the spark of you understanding, accepting that there is a problem and a problem in health, there is a problem and a problem in education, in the social field or in the care of pensioners. The Prime Minister has always referred to the fact that pensions have been preserved, but the problem is, for example, that the President of the Republic's salary is not increased to the same extent as pensions are raised, even though it would be worth considering this type of wage increase for the President of the Republic, or turning it around, because it would be better for Hungarian pensioners. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Mr President, thank you for your patience.
u2019-11-18-273	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman László Hajdu DK.
u2019-11-18-274	Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. In the 2018 budget report, I would like to start with criticism of the planning. If we consider that we have already adopted the budget in June, which is fundamentally affected by this current accounts, in which we have heard 1000 billion and 1,200 billion remains, this will obviously be part of next year's budget, in some way someone will put this remnant in the budget that the accounts are about. This type of planning is not known by the Public Finance Act in the sub-schemes. There is no possibility, let's say, that the municipality is a fairly large sub-scheme, with the 3180 municipality there would not be a case where a budget would be adopted without knowing what the register is, so the closing account did not take place. And here's the thing: we have the budget first, we already have the budget by 2020, and the money that will be decorated with this is just coming out, but the budget law is created. This kind of planning cannot be accepted somehow, not to mention that this 1000 billion or 1200 billion free remnants are not known whether it is free or loaded with something, but what can be seen from the bill is that such a large transfer will be made by 2020, who will control it. The Hungarian Parliament is probably not. So if, somewhere, the legislator, the Hungarian Parliament, the Members of Parliament have the right to control a government and manage it with our common money, it is precisely the control of the budget, of course, it is also the control of the government, and this possibility is not given in this term and probably in the previous term, it is not possible to control it in this cycle. And if I return to the previous example, it would not be possible to do so in a municipality, either with the opposition or with the majority there, that whatever the mayor, in this case, the Prime Minister would amend up to 100 billion in the state budget, the amount here is no longer interesting that it is not under any control. In this respect, it is possible to learn from municipalities how to plan a budget according to public finances, how to spend that money under control. So these funds, which we have talked about and read here, we have also listened to the Commission debate on the results of the 2018 budget, any passage we take, in the presentation of the Secretary of State, or in the written material or in the Commission summaries, if we have listened to them, we have been able to close a good year, without any problems. The other thing I have to say, which would make it quite difficult to support this budget closure, is, above all, the uncertainty that the municipalities are in today. And if the budget has to be guaranteed, because the Hungarian budget meets the voters, the Hungarian citizens, in particular, in the settlement, it receives in the municipal services what we should be voting on here, it is seriously damaged. Some things I would like to give an example, others have tried to set an example. Here is the minimum wage, which, for example, is a great success for the material, the change in the minimum wage and the guaranteed professional wage. At press conferences, the leaders of the settlements will hear that, please, the government has raised the minimum wage with this, and then it will have to do so in the Gazette. Yeah, but if someone says "A," then say "B," so send the money to him. Thus, some municipalities receive money, some municipalities do not. So there is a budget already adopted in 2018, and it is also adopted by 2020 that makes a difference between one settlement and the other settlement, in Hungarian from one type of settlement, namely, I think it takes money and transfers it from 107 municipalities, so we finance each other, the municipalities finance it, which the Hungarian budget does not add extra money to, but makes it finance it with the municipalities. This is done by, on the one hand, a minimum wage supplement of 100 million in the case of a specific municipality, and a guaranteed wage supplement, I could give you numbers, but it doesn't make much sense because of the protocol. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I think that the other one, which is very strict, is to discourage nationalised education from the municipalities. However, this law does not say anything about it, that it is also being paid by the municipalities. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2019-11-18-275	Thank you, Congressman Hajdu. I ask you, in the remaining timeframes, you want to use someone else's right to speak. Yes, I'll give the floor to Congresswoman Versus Anett.
u2019-11-18-276	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, What I would like to say to you quite briefly is that when we are asking you for the efforts to bring social divides together and we are arguing for it, we are expressing a common interest in society. This does not go against the principle of performance, it is merely about the fact that less fortunate social groups can perform, and they can show that they can do something, not only for the community, but also for themselves. At the moment, millions of people in this society are forced to live in a way that deprives them of all the possibilities of the social situation they are born into. Speaking of conservative or social democratic principles and social planners, I would like to say to you that the thinkers of classical political economics have addressed the issue of poverty. Just a liberal economist said that a society of which a significant proportion lives in poverty cannot rise. At the moment, one third of Hungarian society lives on or below the minimum living standards. In this way, the development of this country cannot be considered sustainable, and we are not only here in the closing debate, but at its last moments we are in any way asking you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, and I believe that the kind of constructivity with which the opposition is dealing with public finances, economic policy and the acceptance of the fact that on the one hand the effort to pull together social divides is not useless, and on the other hand, it is far from compatible with the principle of performance. Thank you.
u2019-11-18-277	Thank you very much. Next up is Congressman Antal Csárdi, LMP. [[20.20]]
u2019-11-18-278	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Well, I think that if someone looked back on this closing bill in a few generations, I think it would be a tremendous shock. Because what would you see in this account? That Hungary did not spend only for the future in its 2018 budget, and, of course, this is a bit of a cornered wording, let's say that it did not spend enough. 'Cause what's got less resources? The environment. What was underfunded in the entire budget? Education and health care. Now I am not going to repeat the terms that my fellow opposition Members have said, but I think that the example that my fellow Members have said is very well described, that while a cashier in Aldi can earn gross earnings over HUF 300,000, a beginner teacher earns HUF 135,000 net. I think it is also the biggest mistake of this budget and of meeting the fact that nothing has been learned or noticed from the fact that if you do not provide sufficient resources and do not support this with the necessary decisions to protect the environment, we will live up to our future. And I am not talking about the fact that we are not funding our work on climate change, but I am talking about the fact that, in a manner independent from climate change, environmental protection is not sufficiently funded in Hungary today. What I'm talking about is that education isn't well funded, and we're surprised there aren't any teachers. You might want to talk to a college teacher about what the applications look like right now for teacher's studies. The same is the case with health, where we can see precisely that the machinery is failing, the machinery is failing, and not your funding is keeping this system moving, but the dedication of the workers in it. And yet I say that beyond that, there are errors, because this budget has not been able to answer virtually any of the questions that are now a priority for society. I am also thinking, first and foremost, of the housing crisis or of the situation of foreign exchange creditors. I know, I know, I know the drill. You've solved the problems of foreign exchange credentials. Well, then, my dear fellow Member, because I see you nodding, I'm getting numbers. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs: Not this way! That's not what I said!]] I'm going to list numbers. 2018 is the year of families. In 2018, 3212 evictions were carried out, but what's even worse is that 6,000 forced sales took place. This means that if this affected 6,000 families, more than 15,000 people would be on the street or out of their homes. Fifteen thousand people! This is the size of a medium settlement in Hungary today. I think that despite the fact that, according to the 2018 data, 114 thousand mortgage loans were significantly delayed, they did not do anything for the foreign exchange credit victims in 2018. 114,000 in 2018! I think that you were satisfied with the solution that you were able to obtain at a reduced rate municipal housing, which was either sold for double or triple money, is members of your political community, yes, yes, members of your political community. If you like, I'll go after a meeting and present names to him. Now, on the other hand, you have succeeded in supporting this; it is true that the results of the municipal elections in Budapest gave the first round of answers. I think he'll tell you all about your social policy, that the vacation is subject to a 5% VAT today, that restaurant food is subject to a 5% VAT today, but if I want to buy bread, it's already under 18 per cent VAT, if I want to buy carrots or vegetables, it's already 27 per cent VAT. Now, that's your social image, because the wealthy will have the money to pay the high-value VAT, and the less well-off will somehow solve it! I think that's the biggest problem with your budget, your accounts, that it's not about society, it's about yourself. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2019-11-18-279	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Péter Benő Banai, who clearly wishes to respond to what has been said. You have a ten-minute time frame.
u2019-11-18-280	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me to begin by saying, in my opinion, that the government, the government at all times, within the framework of the draft closing act, that last year's budget adopted by Parliament has been or has not been met with respect to its basic objectives, whether or not the numbers set by Parliament have been fulfilled. Sommaly, I can tell you that there were numbers that could not be deviated from, and we did not deviate from them, while in other areas, thankful to God, positive movements can be reported. What are the figures where the government insisted and did not return to the old practice before 2010 by insisting on the key figures in the budget? Such is the general government deficit, where, instead of the 2.4 per cent deficit according to the EU methodology, the debt ratio has fallen from 72,2% to 70,2%. And yes, there are areas in which we can report in the implementation of the budget that the figures have improved even more than we thought. In terms of economic growth, the growth of the economy was 5.1 per cent instead of 4.3 per cent. The increase in net average earnings was 11,3 per cent instead of the planned 8.8 per cent. The number of people employed continued to increase, reaching a figure of 4.5 million, while the unemployment rate is falling to 3.7 percent. The inflation rate was 2.8 per cent instead of the projected 3 per cent. So, overall, I can report that the objectives and budgetary frameworks set by the Parliament have been met and, in many cases, have been better developed than previously assumed. I could say that subjective opinion is never a worse year, but, of course, I think it is worth a brief response to what has been said in this debate. We still have a task, which we always say in every debate in Parliament, whether it is about some of the main areas of expenditure in the budget, but I think that the 2018 discharge also confirmed that the allegations about under-financing and reducing funding in a withdrawn area are wrong. I often hear about health and education. Allow me to explain in fact how these priority areas have been financed on the basis of the 2018 accounts. Consolidated expenditure for education: HUF 2014 billion in 2017 and HUF 2271.3 billion in 2018, an increase of nearly HUF 260 billion. Health: the 2017 fact is HUF 1630.6 bn, the 2018 performance HUF 1786.4 bn, and the HUF 156 bn surplus is reported here as well. I could practically continue the line. In each area, we see that such economic growth has enabled us to achieve additional expenditure while maintaining the stability of public finances. And yes, these extra expenses were partly covered by tax revenues. [[20.30]] Here it was said in the debate that it was a taxed country; I would remind the Honourable Parliament that from January 2018 the rate of social contribution tax decreased from 22 per cent to 19,5 per cent, the rate of small company tax decreased from 14 per cent to 13 per cent, the VAT refund deadline for reliable taxpayers decreased from 45 days to 30 days, the VAT rate for fish, Braille printers and displays decreased from 27 per cent to 5 per cent, as the VAT rate also decreased from 18 per cent in the restaurant service to 5 per cent. I would add, whether in the tourism area or in the restaurant services, the aim was for the tourism area to contribute to the growth of the economy, for someone who wants to go on holiday, it is better to go on holiday at home, the amount he spends on vacation stays in the Hungarian economy. I believe that this was also necessary in order to report these impressive growth figures. But if I look at the individual areas, I repeat that the cover for the extra expenditure was not the increase in taxes, but the greater economic growth with the tax reduction. It was said that the budget had a surplus of HUF 1200 billion. I am very sorry that President László Varju, who is the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, did not look in detail at where the surplus is. Out of the four largest taxes, a surplus of HUF 195 billion was received from VAT, Saya, excise duty and corporate tax. There are also surpluses in the social contribution tax, and I think that Mr President, Mr President, has been deceived by the fact that, in the context of the closing accounts, we report exactly all financial flows within public finances, for example, if, under an EU support programme, a Ministry with one managing authority has allocated funds to another ministry, for example, for energy efficiency investments in educational or health institutions, a unit payment has been made at the Ministry of the Managing Authority and then also in the spending of money in health or education. So that surplus of HUF 1200 billion is simply not related to tax revenues, but, in the context of closing accounts, the government reports according to the legal rules on the financial flows within public finances. In this regard, let me say, as a general observation, that I cannot interpret the comments that the drawing up of the accounts was not lawful. This was stated by the State Audit Office, independent of the government, and public finances, including deficit and debt, were validated by Eurostat and published on its website. Allow me to briefly address a few other areas. Retirements. Again, it was said that pensions were under-designed. I repeat: the rate of inflation was 2.8 percent compared to the 3% increase. The real value of pensions has slightly increased, with a total increase of more than 10 percent compared to 2010 in the real value of pensions. And let us not forget that in 2018, the Erzsébet voucher was also available for payment, similarly to the payment of the pension premium. As far as family allowances are concerned: compared to 2010, your 2018 fact was 888 billion forints; sorry, this was the additional support provided by the government. Of course, the additional resources alone do not result in the automatic rate of fertility going above level 2, but I still think that in 2018 the government and the Parliament provided additional resources for families who had taken on a child. This surplus did, however, contribute to the increase in fertility rates, as I think that the tax relief of the first married ones served this purpose. This is Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, who mentioned the increasing number of marriages as positive, but he said that this is not very related to having children. In fact, married couples have more children than partners. If they do so, the tax relief of the first married is also a demographic measure, our aim is to have the desired children, and the first married ones, if they know the psychological surplus that is related to the greater commitment and thus take on more children, I think that we can again talk about a measure that contributes to childbearing. Prosperity expenses. I mentioned that expenditure on education and health has increased. Congressman Attila Mesterházy was probably deceived by the fact that, let's say, the social subsidies linked to unemployment actually decreased in proportion to God's GDP, thanks to the impressive employment figures. The fact that this closing statement has only led to progress by narrow sections of society, I think that there is, at least, doubt as to opposition contributions. Mr László Hajdu talked about the extent to which the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage have increased. Yes, there was a very significant increase in wages in both the categories of earnings in 2017 and 18, with the lowest wages, and the real increase in wages in these categories was even more significant than the average in the national economy. As far as municipalities are concerned: in 2018, too, the municipalities were characterised by stable farming. This is also the reason why I can report overall on these positive public finances. Of course, we still have a number of tasks ahead of us, but I think that the 2018 figures have shown the correctness of economic policy and social policy, the desired goals and the realistic availability of the targets. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-18-281	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Péter Banai Benő. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of the laws relating to the provision of housing for natural persons participating in the National Asset Management Programme and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal are now in order. The government referral is T/7700. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee.
u2019-11-18-282	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 14 November 2019 T/7700 discussed the amendment of the laws relating to the provision of housing for natural persons participating in the National Asset Management Programme. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. It adopted it unanimously by 32 votes in favour. Dear Parliament, Net, customers of the National Asset Manager who complied with the legal requirements, could make a statement this spring in order to re-ownerize their former property. Within the framework of the successful measure, 31,900 families, or 98 percent of those affected, came back out of some 32.5 thousand families. Thanks to the highly preferential buy-back conditions provided by the State, 28 500 of them wish to buy back their previously taken home by banks, either in one amount or in instalments. Thanks to the programme, more than 150,000 people have escaped the multimillion-dollar debt, and the government has allowed them to regain their homes previously taken away by banks under very favourable conditions. Dear House, With the bill before you, the government will provide further support for home creation and protection for families participating in the National Asset Management Programme, which, I think, is a supporting and eligible measure, as the unanimous legislative Commission's support has indicated. I therefore call on my fellow Members to support this bill during the vote. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-18-283	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, if you would like to speak. [[Dr. János Fónagy: Thank you, Mr President, at the end of the debate.]] Thank you very much, at the end of the debate. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. The time frame can be read on the display. [[20.40]] First, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Jr.
u2019-11-18-284	Mr President, Dear House, Any debate about the National Asset Manager is very difficult to hold without emotion, whether it is a general or a detailed debate, because it is not a barcode in a budget planning, but a real person or a sentient being. We have had a lot of debates here in this House on the background to this Calvary. We also found those responsible. Obviously, the meeting point here has a fundamental influence on these issues. We usually trace the flow chart back to 2001, when unilateral treaty amendments were institutionalised in Hungary. I'm not saying that the then Fidesz government would have let the ghost out of the bottle on purpose. He did this unawarely, I think, and even the economic performance of the then Fidesz government in my eyes shows a respectable and impressive flow chart compared to the present one, but I must say that the processes of that time were embedded in the disaster that then occurred during the Balliberal governments. And although the Swiss central bank warned, a lot of people from outside Hungary warned, so they gave us the quotes, but no one did, and after 2010, there would still have been a correction opportunity, but after that we witnessed a special compromise between banks, the Government of Hungary, the supervisory system, executives and notaries. Thus, an institutionalised looting mechanism was created, where so-called loans were no longer forinted at the rate of the day of admission, but the difference at a market rate, could be practically recorded as a profit by the commercial banks concerned. This difference should have been returned to the Hungarian people. Since this did not happen, it is worth examining the reasons, but in terms of the National Asset Manager, I need to be a little more stringent than what was said here during the introduction. Two questions are missing from the analysis. I'm really glad that these people can buy back their property that's been stolen. One of my questions is, what about the National Asset Manager? Stopping this, which has already been mentioned in this House, and pro-government leaders have mentioned that this institution is actually running out, is it really running out or do they think it is necessary? I think it's worth keeping certain gates open. The other very important question is clearly how the commercial bank's authorisation could enter this system. We're in a lot of evictions, we meet a lot of clients in reception hours, and even though we can't run a legal support team without resources, we may not be the most empowered to do so, but we try to connect the parties involved. We have encountered a number of problematic cases where the National Asset Manager would have talked to the client, but there is an additional factor. The creditor commercial bank, the institute, should be allowed to do so, and many years of problems may result from the fact that in many cases the licence has not been issued, or the client has simply not been able to communicate with the National Asset Management Institution. Many of them have been left out of this institution without their own fault, and even today, we are still meeting with customers who would consider the asset manager as a sort of temporary breath if they were accepted by this institution today or tomorrow. Therefore, I make a related proposal: The Government of Hungary should provide at least a few billion HUF framework for future customers, because I see that there is complete confusion and confusion on the other side of the asset manager. For many years, this institution has been referred to as Hungary's largest rental program. I was particularly irritated by this pro-government comment that the asset manager could be interpreted as any kind of rental program, since he took the property ownership of orvul people and then hired those involved back their own property. Calling this a rental system is, at least, strong, in a democracy anyway. After that, we saw that these people could actually buy their property back at a discount rate, but now the system seems to be running out. Once again, I would be happy to see that if the citizens concerned could continue to have a similar opportunity until their situation has been resolved, but the fact that they have made it conditional on the authorisation of the commercial bank concerned is that anyone can be included in this system, it is a source of abuse. I would be satisfied with the government's performance, not only if you apologized to the victims, because this is an emotional issue. Mostly if you give up the EBRD pact. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán says no.]] Mr. Secretary, you may have the right to shake your head, but you must correct me: do you think a pact with the EBRD is necessary? I know who is responsible, but I am also listening to the gesture, and I am interested in the answer that you believe that it is necessary for the Government of Hungary to maintain with the EBRD the agreement, the pact in which it undertook not to impose any additional burden on these affected banks in order to settle the situation of the clients. I say that this is a cuff and harness that Hungary does not need. Cancel this pact, release February 2015 in this sense, and conclude a new alliance with the affected, the injured. The fact that we are making certain facilitations here for the asset manager is the most natural thing in the world. I don't think there's a debate going on between us. However, it is clear that there was still a record number of evictions in the previous year. It may be a few percent lower than it was a year ago, but since we are talking about thousands of families and, where appropriate, tens of thousands of people, this number cannot be called low. And I'm afraid that when the eviction moratorium is over, these troubles will start again, they'll recreate, and I really don't want to be alerted to eviction events next spring by opposition representatives who, of course, are going there, trying to give us some kind of spiritual assistance, and with the cameras they can make sure that enforcement gangs don't do any more violations, but at institutional level, I don't think it's our job. I, in obedience to a command of conscience, appear at all such locations where it is only physically possible, but I believe that the Government of Hungary has the various options, cashier keys and permissions to help all those involved. That is what we expect from you, therefore, to remain steadfast. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-18-285	Thank you, Congressman. Mr Antal Csárdi, Member of the LMP, will take the floor.
u2019-11-18-286	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Dear rapporteur, I would like to draw attention to another problem. Based on feedback, we have been confronted with the fact that the stakeholders have generally declared that they have a lump sum purchase, because both their income and their secure workplace would allow them to borrow from commercial banks in Hungary, and on the basis of more feedback, I have to say that a commercial bank today does not lend to asset management real estate collateral in Hungary. In this regard, I submitted an amendment, which Fidesz, in accordance with its good habits, swept off without reading it, because I think that once it was the case, the Hungarian commercial banks, including the Hungarian commercial bank, and also the leading commercial bank in Hungary, clearly told the client that it would of course submit the application for a credit certificate, but now it says that the result will have to be negative for the purchase of an asset management property. Compared to this, I submitted an amendment to change the otherwise already made statement so that the customer could buy back his property in a different way. And I fear that, if this did not happen, many of you would have fallen out again, which my fellow Member said was that many people had fallen out of the system, which would have been a demand. I fear that many people will also fall out of the buy-back system because of the good faith in the market that a commercial bank should be living with and did not encounter. I think it is important here that the government detects this problem and responds to this problem, because at present, if it has said that it wants to buy it in one amount, but the bank will not talk to it, it will fail to buy it back. [[20.50]] I would ask the rapporteur, my fellow Member, to answer this problem. And if we are already thinking about this together, I think it is also worth talking about the fact that the payment of instalments with a typically 30-year duration, otherwise very forward and fairly completely cost-free, could not be reduced, because thirty years is not responsible for a 45-50-year-old person today. And I think that there would be many who would be able to fulfil this obligation free of charge in ten or twenty years. I would ask the rapporteur and my fellow Members to reconsider my amendments to this point, and if they can offer an alternative solution to this, they should present it. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-18-287	Thank you very much. Congressman Attila Mesterházy is next, MSZP.
u2019-11-18-288	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, At any time when it is possible to talk about the problems of foreign exchange lenders, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in this House, the Vice-President or President of the Hungarian National Bank has repeatedly said that this problem does not exist in Hungary, and you have solved this problem. And then, no, it's been a couple of weeks or months, and right after that, the government did have some kind of initiative dealing with foreign exchange-credit victims. A clearer and clearer admission that the Magyar Nemzeti Bank and its executive officials spoke nonsense, and that this problem really needs to be dealt with, could not be asked. But it is very important to emphasise once again what my fellow Member Dániel Z. Kárpát has already said for a few sentences that you have clearly sold the foreign exchange loaners to the Hungarian banking sector on several occasions, but once in a very eloquent way, when signing the EBRD Treaty. After all, you have signed a contract with the EBRD, which concerns that no damage can be caused to the Hungarian banking sector, no loss of profits in the Hungarian banking sector due to the problems of foreign exchange lenders. You have also undertaken not to make any obstacles to eviction, which is interesting because you often refer to the fact that it is the year of families or you are talking about being a family-friendly government. We have asked you on numerous occasions that one of the features of this should be to prohibit eviction in the case of family members, so that families with children cannot be evicted in any form. You have never complied with this request, and, as has already been said, evictions are taking place. So we constantly asked for it, and I would also stress that they should terminate their agreement with the EBRD, which is a government contract, because, in fact, let me repeat the sale of foreign exchange lenders to the Hungarian banks. The second is that it would be worth putting a new bank account on the agenda, as it was also mentioned in this room several times, but in other professional forums it was acknowledged that the Hungarian banks did not properly inform the customers. There are also European court decisions on this, by the way. In Hungarian, a court also stated that it was not appropriate to inform the borrowers of the risks involved in taking on a loan of this type. And most of the problems were due to this indiscretion. But the profit interests of banks, their hunger, have overwritten all reasonable information just to make more money on these families, these people. Another: this asset management program, which you are not expanding now, but actually plowing in, is an interesting suggestion, since people who are now offered their own apartments to buy again have already paid their own apartments, property, at least once or twice. So, for the second or third time, you can buy what has already been paid in the form of various payments. Therefore, we say that there is a problem of one million people in Hungary, that we should have dealt with this issue in a much more serious and effective way. And it should not have been the Hungarian families who paid the tax, but rather the banks. After all, every year we see that the banking sector in Hungary is becoming increasingly profitable, so it would not have shaken them in any way if we had paid this exchange rate risk not with the Hungarian families, but in some form of burden-sharing, but basically the banks would have held this risk, and let me repeat it, especially in the light of the fact that Hungarian families who took credit were not adequately informed about the dangers and risks. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-11-18-289	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask that someone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I am now giving the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2019-11-18-290	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I did not intend to repeat what the rapporteur said, but, on the basis of the opinions expressed, I believe that a few facts and the updating of historical memory may not hurt. I would also like to start by thanking the opposition parties for their support in the detailed debate and also in the committee vote, in which, I think, what my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z. Karpát, has said is that it is indeed the fate of hundreds of thousands of people. I believe that the non-professional, rather political discourse that has been said and said in this regard is more a result of the spirit of the place than our responsibility for these families. I am only saying this because of memory, because my fellow Member referred to it, perhaps he said that the processes started here in 2001. In 2001, the first Fidesz government operated a very important housing support system, which covered credit support, access to housing, and special conditions for young real estate owners. So that's when this process didn't start. The intention of the then and the first Fidesz governments to create homes was obviously useful and effective for many young families, even today, but even then it was very important. That is why I find it odd to reproach my fellow Member Mesterházy, because, although there is no doubt that the possibility of foreign exchange lending, opening up the possibility of crediting eligible persons for foreign exchange, is linked to us according to the calendar, but by removing these favourable housing support opportunities at the time, the Socialist Government abolished the interest rate subsidy, ended the support for the acquisition of the property of young couples, it really drove people into these schemes, as it was later found to be, into unfavorable schemes. With regard to emotions, I know that it is not appropriate to hold up my fellow Members at this late hour, but my fellow Member also referred to it, and let me repeat that when we sat there in the summer of 2011 or early spring 2012 with my colleague State Secretary and tried to throw up the foundations of this asset manager between four and six eyes, we meditated to extend this opportunity to 2500 or 5000 apartments as a ceiling. [[21.00]] Compared to that, the asset manager has changed nearly 38 thousand properties, out of which 38 thousand are the 32 500 families that are subject to this year's and the legislation that we are discussing, of which 31 900 families, or 98 percent of those involved, have reported back. I say to my fellow Member, Mr Csárdi, that out of this 31,900, 28,500 families have said that they want to buy back their property by way of instalments or a sum I do not know whether it is the third time. Undoubtedly, after an unfortunate credit scheme, there is a risk that someone will suffer ill, and I believe that this step by the government will provide a very positive opportunity for the recovery and return of the homes of families who have come into very difficult circumstances. Without opening up a detailed debate here under the title of the closing, I would just like to remind you that early repayment is possible, so the 30-year term is not mandatory. If there is an opportunity, then, of course, those involved can take advantage of it. What the amending proposal now goes back to is essentially 650 families of around 2 percent of the clientele that would otherwise have been entitled to, or would have been entitled to, because they meet the preconditions, but for whatever reason they didn't report back, the address was wrong, they didn't get it, they weren't home, and the rest, they were actually targeted by this bill. This was also recognised or accepted by my opposition colleagues both during the detailed debate and during the Commission hearing. A very significant part of the amendment is the proposal made earlier by the opposition lines in the detailed debate, and we have read it, and we have not read it, which said that there are other debts here, and that we should not create a situation where someone buys back his apartment, and for the second time his apartment, and then he is subjected to a next execution. We have therefore said that these will be further protected for three years, including the opinions expressed here in Parliament. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] In addition, the bill itself adopted a number of Commission amendments aimed at creating linguistic, legal and regulatory coherence, thus containing codification and language positioning clarifications. Once again, I would like to thank the Committees for their supporting professional work, which has contributed to clarifying, clarifying and repeating the text of the bill from a professional point of view. On this basis, I respectfully ask that the proposal be supported in the course of the vote in accordance with the Commission's position. Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Andrea Varga-Damm and Antal Csárdi applaud.]]
u2019-11-18-291	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws relating to forensic enforcement and the discussion of the summary amendment follow up. The government referral is T/7844. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Fazekas, rapporteur of the committee.
u2019-11-18-292	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 14 November 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed T/7844 amending certain laws relating to forensic enforcement. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 31 votes in favour, with 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, In order to ensure the coherence of the legal system, the proposal before us aims to establish the consistency of the standard for enforcement procedures and, in this sense, to amend the rules on the service relationship of the members of the judicial staff and other related laws. The general administrative procedure that came into force last January is 134. According to §2 of the Act, the National Tax and Customs Office will act as a general administrative enforcement body as of 1 January 2018, i.e. it will be responsible for carrying out tax debts, public debts to be recovered, other public debts to be recovered, and for carrying out the activities specified in the procedure, and for regulating them by the Act on enforcement procedures to be implemented by the tax authority Avt. as provided by an independent procedural law. As of 1 January 2019 NAV will also carry out the forensic enforcement tasks, i.e. it is solely responsible for the execution of State and judicial claims and for the execution of any material adverse rights which may be enforced or established in the course of the proceedings. The proposal submitted also covers the transfer of enforcement cases to the tax authority in several steps. Since the implementation of ongoing enforcement tasks will become an obligation of the NAV as of 1 January 2020 as a result of this, forensic enforcement as a task will be removed from the court's system of organisation and the judicial enforcement as a legal status will be terminated. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal submitted includes a very forward-looking amendment to Avt. that allows the NAV to have the right time to process the transferred cases. In this way, in cases pending on 31 December 2019, the enforcement procedure shall cease until 30 days from the date of receipt of the request for enforcement to the tax authority. There are also some other changes to Avt., which aim to ensure the effective conduct of the implementation procedure. These include cases where enforcement is carried out against a debtor that is a public employee and where the debtor dies and the possibility of using movable property that has not been taken over during an electronic auction for a charitable purpose. Dear Parliament, The bill on the House's table intends to introduce a new legal institution for administrative transfer before the enforcement procedure and to facilitate a more transparent tax records of irrecoverable claims. I would ask this House to support the proposal that has been tabled in the light of what has been said. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-18-293	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, if he would like to speak to his representative now or at a later date. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Not now.]] The Secretary of State points out that he does not wish to speak at this stage of the debate. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the designated Judicial Committee has not set up a rapporteur, so now it is up to the Members to speak. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik Group. [[21.10]]
u2019-11-18-294	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/7844 in front of us. In the general debate, the Jobbik faction already presented its position in the plenary debate, which said that we were in favour of this bill. Its title is somewhat misleading because it refers to the fact that it contains only amendments related to forensic enforcement and enforcement procedures, but it also seeks to regulate other types of legislation and other types of living. It is a simple change, now considered to be a legal issue, that, after the forensic implementations have been terminated by the legislator and the tax and customs authorities will carry out in the future the tasks previously performed by the forensic executives, so that, of course, powers had to be handed over under the provisions of law and transitional provisions had to be taken to put the other organisation in the position of one organisation when it ceased. The issue of criminal lockdown, the terminology of criminal lockdown, had to be harmonised to other legislation, because one legislation had criminal lockdown and another had the same legal consequence in criminal proceedings, of course it had to be harmonised, and this was included in the legislative proposal. Indeed, with the abolition of forensic enforcement, a large number of claims are transferred to the tax and customs authorities which are not easy to deal with by the tax and customs authorities, and the legislator has therefore decided to waive a certain amount of outstanding or irrecoverable claims that were already issued before 1 January 2019 and which remain on 31 December 2019. When we discussed this in plenary, I drew attention to the fact that I very much hope that there are not many large taxpayers who will be exempt from their unpaid public debts. I hope that this proposal will not result in their benefit. Since this is also a salad law, the government has also decreed the introduction of a new terminology that is required under the Criminal Code 411. Paragraph 1 (1) (a) results in the fact that the European Commission had to be consulted, as a result of a consultation, the result was that our legislation, which has been in force for several years, is not exactly exhausting all the conduct that they wanted to pedalise as regards its legal facts. It is an important issue of this legislative proposal, which has caused serious problems in criminal proceedings for a long time, and this is to bear the cost of criminal proceedings in the event that the repeated procedure had to be applied not in the interests of the court, but as a result of the action of the court, and thus double the cost of criminal proceedings to the defendant, which is now being lifted by this proposal. It was also very important to finally regulate when civil law needs and criminal claims affect the same property. There was often a problem in the case law as to which one precedes the other. Now this legislation also settles this and indeed regulates the entire system of the appearance of civil and criminal claims on an asset in a coherent and complete manner. It was a very old demand, and I am very pleased that, after 32 years, the legislator has finally created the institution of the authority transfer. To be honest, I've never understood why this couldn't be done in the first tax laws, since there are many times when the taxpayer has overpayments in one tax type, and in the other it has not been able to get rid of tax enforcement, because there was no own-initiative institution. What is also very important and important from a social policy point of view is the 53rd priority of this proposal. §2 of the Act declaring the exemption of assets participating in the public employment programme from sales in implementation for as long as the public employment programme is in progress. We rarely say here, in this House, that a legislative package is justified and logical, and we will certainly support it, because it will indeed become a law that has been out of order for a long time, rules and case-law. So thank you for your attention.
u2019-11-18-295	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members, who else would like to speak. [[For signal:]] Yes, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group.
u2019-11-18-296	Thank you. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Varga-Damm said so in detail and well in her reasoning why they support this, that I am saving it, and I would just say that this amendment is necessary, so we are in favour of it. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-18-297	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2019-11-18-298	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to thank my fellow Members for their support from the factions. I would like to clarify one thing: tax debts do not fall within the scope of the debts to be released or released in this bill, because they have been carried out by the tax authorities, and there are only sums relating to forensic executives. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-18-299	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the proposed amendment of certain laws concerning the real estate register and certain administrative procedures and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. The government referral is T/7693. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Fazekas, rapporteur of the committee.
u2019-11-18-300	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 11 November 2019 the Legislative Committee discussed T/7693 amending certain laws concerning the real estate register and certain administrative procedures. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. It adopted it unanimously by 32 votes in favour. Dear Parliament, The primary objective of the amendment tabled by the Government is to ensure a simpler, more transparent and more efficient administration for the Hungarian people. The proposal includes not only technical clarifications, but also substantive changes, which will affect the daily lives of legal entities applying the legislation. The first such amendment shall cover the rules for the reporting of data from the State Property Register Map Database and the agricultural parcel identification system. On the one hand, the proposal shifts some of this into other sectoral legislation, on the other hand, and on the other hand, it highlights the legal material which has become obsolete and anachronistic from the Hungarian legal system as a result of the development of the law. Furthermore, the proposal submitted seeks to repeal the law amending certain laws relating to the entry into force of the law on sanctions for infringements of administrative rules in order to ensure a uniform settlement of all amendments to the legislation relating to the subsequent entry into force of the sanction law in this proposal. Last but not least, I would like to point out that the proposal is CLXXXVI of 2017 on the amendment of laws relating to administrative bureaucracy and simplification of certain administrative procedures. Law 32 § 3 includes the entry into force of a different text to ensure that the joint representative elected by the general assembly of the board of directors or the chairman of the board of directors can carry out the activity of managing the community, regardless of whether it is registered or not, until 1 May 2021. [[21.20]] Dear Parliament, The aim of the proposal before us is to review the legislative set affected by the amendment, thus complying with the rule of law requirements of the legislation, such as the principles of clarity, accessibility and legal certainty. Finally, but not least, technical clarification of certain texts has proved essential to ensure consistency between interpretation and application of law. In view of what has been said, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the proposal that has been tabled. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2019-11-18-301	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I ask, Mr Orbán wishes to speak at this stage of the debate or at a later stage. [[For signal:]] Mr State Secretary points out that, as rapporteur, he intends to speak at a later stage in the debate. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. Representatives will now take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. In the meantime, a two-minute speech is not possible. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik Group.
u2019-11-18-302	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, This is T/7693. The package of legislative amendments, which could in fact be referred to as a technical amendment on the one hand, but it is, in principle, a proposal for legislation to improve the well-being of citizens, given that it introduces easier procedures for the registration of real estate, which are absolutely justified, and I must say that this is indeed a careful and prudent work. On the other hand, it introduces legislative options for providing data from the agricultural parcel identification system that are necessary for both farmers and other landowners. I do not wish to multiply the word, because I saw that this proposal amends about seven pieces of legislation for one purpose. We have already said in the general debate in plenary that the Jobbik faction supports this, and, of course, we are maintaining this right now, and we are expressing our hope that in the future the government will present proposals to improve similar well-being, and we will always be very pleased. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-18-303	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-11-18-304	I can only repeat myself: Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm has summarized the position on the law so well that I can only join it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-11-18-305	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members if someone else would like to speak under the item on the agenda. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, who, as rapporteur, wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2019-11-18-306	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I could say that this is a general phenomenon, that if the opposition is happy, then the Secretary of State is happy, but it is usually the opposite. However, now we find ourselves in the position of the principle confirming the exception. Thank you for your support. We also believe that, on the one hand, the real estate register, as it is implemented in Hungary and forms a uniform system, where map and legal data are recorded in a uniform legal and institutional sense, is our strong strength, on which, of course, it can always be facilitated and simplified. This is what the bill before us serves. Thank you very much for the constructive approach presented in the general debate and presented in the detailed debate. And I would like to point out that, as a procedure of the Legislative Committee, I also believe that the proposal has made substantial progress. At the initiative of the National Association of Hungarian Blinds and Sensitives, the committee adopted an amendment to the legislative provision governing the formalities of the legal declaration of a person unable to write or read in a real estate register, which further simplifies the enforcement of the law of our disadvantaged countrymen. So we are very happy about this, and, of course, on the part of the government, we are in favour of this intention to amend, and thank you all very much for your support. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2019-11-18-307	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The President-in-Office expresses his joy without any influence over the good mood of Parliament's debate. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. I underlined the non-influenced one twice. Thank you. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws relating to Hungarian citizenship and the discussion of the summary amendment follow. The government referral is T/6455. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Fazekas, rapporteur of the committee. Congressman, please.
u2019-11-18-308	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that T/6455 on the amendment of certain laws relating to Hungarian citizenship was discussed at the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 14 November 2019. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 30 votes in favour, with 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, One of the precedents of the bill before us is that the Government of Hungary has successfully granted Hungarian and thus dual citizenship to more than one million of our fellow nations, through the amendment of the citizenship law, because the untenable situation existed before was that, as a result of Trianon, one third of the nation was placed under foreign jurisdiction, so that people who never left their homeland became Hungarians, citizens of another state, and thus could not obtain Hungarian citizenship. These Hungarian people were helped by the then implementation of the Double Citizenship Bill. According to the legal text in force at the time and today, the citizenship procedure starts on an individual application, in the event that the applicant can demonstrate the existence of a number of substantive economic conditions together, including that he has lived continuously in Hungary for eight years before the application was submitted, or that his livelihood and housing are guaranteed in Hungary. In addition, the law also allows for a procedure for preferential localisation, which, like the previous ones, was also included in a cyclical set of conditions. The most important of this is that the non-Hungarian citizen who lived continuously in Hungary for at least three years prior to his application; who has been in a valid marriage for three years or whose marriage has ended with the death of the spouse, or whose minor child is a Hungarian citizen or a Hungarian citizen who is either adopted or is stateless; furthermore, the non-Hungarian citizen who, in the form of legal terms, has never had Hungarian citizenship and who was a Hungarian citizen or who is able to prove his Hungarian origin and language knowledge, can use the possibility of simplified localization, which provides the applicant parties with a faster and simpler administrative administration. As in the past, the current amendment was written in the spirit of patriotism and national cohesion, as it is intended to make the simplified naturalisation procedure even more effective by, among other things, issuing a permanent identity card for citizens who have obtained citizenship abroad. Finally, it is also important to note that the adoption of the proposal will extend the one-stop shop, which will allow the examination of the application for citizenship, the possibility of a change of name, and the issue of official certificates certifying the identity and address of the person. Dear House, The proposal before us contains positive provisions for Hungarians across borders, primarily simplifying and speeding up the accession of the separated population to the mother country. So it's to be supported by everyone. On the basis of all this, I ask my fellow Members to support the motion tabled. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-18-309	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Orbán Balázs, Secretary of State, as rapporteur, to speak now. [[For signal:]] Mr Secretary of State indicated that he wished to speak at a later stage in the debate. [[21.30]] It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament, before this happens, that the designated Judicial Committee has not presented a rapporteur. So I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter, the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2019-11-18-310	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary of State! I would like to advance here with regard to the amendment of the bill that the LMP faction will support the amendment of the bill before us. The reason for this is very simple, since this amendment is very much a substitute. I would also like to remind you that, unfortunately, in recent years, there has been a number of abuse of simplified localization, and according to the news that the government has not contradicted, in many cases, those who do not have Hungarian ancestors could obtain Hungarian citizenship by circumventing the rules of naturalization, which we have repeatedly drawn attention to by the LMP faction and myself. In recent years, it has been revealed that nearly 700 foreigners have obtained Hungarian passports through fraud, which has opened the way to other Member States of the European Union and also to the United States. It is well known that Hungary has been a member of the US Visa Waiver Programme since 2008, with the full freedom to travel to America after prior online registration. According to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, at least 65 of the 700 crooked passport holders were admitted to the United States, and a number of them were reportedly staying there while the U.S. authorities tried to find them and deported them. It is not independent of these developments that the United States unfortunately changed Hungary's status temporarily in the visa waiver programme last October, so we can actually talk about a serious problem. In recent years, a number of articles have been published about the abuse of the naturalisation system, such as the Index in 2014 that Ukrainians and Russians gained mass Hungarian citizenship without actually having Hungarian ancestors. According to the articles, they could obtain Hungarian citizenship through false papers and corruption of Hungarian officials. Organised crime groups in Ukraine could also use simplified naturalization without photos and fingerprints. That is why I think that this proposal is an extremely shortcoming. I think it's better late than never. It is a very forward-looking thing that the government has finally heard the criticisms, and it is basically incorporating fingerprints and facial images into this procedure; this is a very important thing. For this reason, the proposal must be fully supported on our part. I would like to point out here, especially in order to avoid misunderstandings, that this proposal is also very important in order not to undermine the rights of Hungarians living outside the border, and no one can undermine the perception of Hungarian citizenship, which, I think, is a very important thing, and for us, for all of us, for our countrymen across the border, is a very valuable thing. I would like to ask one question to the representatives of the government here: do you plan to examine the applications that have already been made? Thank you very much and we will support this proposal.
u2019-11-18-311	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2019-11-18-312	I could say that Congresswoman has very well summarized the sentences or thoughts, and I wouldn't add any more, but I would like to add one thing other than jokes. I asked the Minister of the Interior the first questions about this abuse several years ago. At the time, I was given the answers that I asked silly questions, that there was no such problem, and therefore there was no need to take any action. I am pleased that in a few years we have come to the point that the government has also understood that these naturalization applications and citizenship applications have been abused, and while this measure has served a noble purpose, there have been people who have deliberately abused it. There were many mayors, notaries, but mostly those who suffered, who had to be prosecuted, because they produced Hungarian citizens who did not speak Hungarian in a large factory, whose ancestor was not Hungarian, but simply wanted to obtain a Schengen passport. And as she spoke about it, this has raised a wide range of security or even national security issues, since typically people who wanted to cheat with this system have tended to cheat in other areas of life. Thus, a number of criminals, criminals and criminals were able to obtain the Hungarian passport and Hungarian citizenship in this way, and then, in a subtle way, this did not increase Hungary's reputation in the world. So we also think that tightening up is right. What could be added is that this institution should not have been discredited and this noble goal should not have been defrauded, that the government should have acted much earlier, and only because opposition representatives raised concerns and problems about this, it should not have been swept off the table, but better later than never. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-11-18-313	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman János Bencsik, Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-11-18-314	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In the beginning, I think it is very important to state that the Hungarian Parliament repaid a very old debt when, in May 2010, the first law of the new parliament, replacing its two decades behind, adopted the law on preferential localization, which finally restored the opportunity for our fellow countrymen who were born under the jurisdiction of foreign countries outside their own faults, lost their citizenship, or became citizens of a country that didn't have a chance to receive it. They also got it back in part, and the opportunity to claim Hungarian citizenship was partially reopened. Looking back a little, it may seem nostalgic to feel the feelings that, in May 2010, in connection with the law adopted by an overwhelming majority at the time, by a 97 percent majority, the Members present here could experience, since everyone except a few Members supported this law. It was such a rare moment in legislation that the vast majority of the nation or the whole nation could experience as a joint success, as a common holiday. If you'll excuse me for a little bit of partiality, we Jobbik also celebrated this as our own success, because at that time, as a party out of Parliament, long before 2010, we fought for this in a lot of places, we participated in the referendum campaign in 2004, we worked for this success, and when the government presented it and voted in 2010, we felt a little bit that we had a lion's share in this great success. And with the intense emotions and feelings we celebrated this, we followed the afterlife of this law with such heightened emotions, but increasingly negative emotions: first, filled with concern, later with incomprehensibleness and increasing anger, when we saw that Hungarian citizenship was becoming increasingly devalued. How is it possible, we asked the question that entrepreneurs with questionable backgrounds are gaining access to Hungarian citizenship more and more easily and more quickly, and we were increasingly concerned about how organized criminal circles fly on this possibility: first, only in classified ads, later on different online platforms, more and more openly, and more openly, that if one has 2-3 thousand euros, it does not matter the total lack of Hungarian language knowledge, it does not matter that there is no Irish identity for Hungarian ascenders, the only thing that matters is the money in the pocket, if one has this money, then it is playing easy to obtain Hungarian citizenship. It is now 18 November 2019, and I would like to ask our honourable pro-government fellow Members a slightly provocative question that we are not a little late. So you didn't have to put this law or a law like this, say, nine years ago, into the walls of this House? What we see, and this is what my fellow Members have been talking about in this debate, is that there have been very serious abuses here, and the Hungarian State has either made very little effort to detect these very serious abuses, or I could say that they have watched this without doing anything. Of course, now you may have the opportunity to adopt this amendment of the law so that, in some cases, this can be done afterwards, but we are confused by the fact that you have watched them come by thousands and tens of thousands of Russian, Serbian and Ukrainian criminal circles. We cannot tell you how many people, my fellow Member, Mr Demeter, have said a number of seven hundred, but this, I think, is just the tip of the iceberg, in reality, the actual number of abuses must be much higher. [[21.40]] We are also confused how the President of the Republic has withdrawn citizenship from more than one million citizens who have been judged less than 200 times in the last nine years. In the second half of last week there were the deliberations of the world's largest forum of Hungarians, the Hungarian Diaspora Council and the Hungarian Permanent Conference. Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén said that the number of newly introduced Hungarian citizens is 1 million 100,000. If we compare this with the situation two years ago, it was announced on 9 November 2017 that we have the one millionth new Hungarian citizen, then we can see that the rate of growth of newly recruited citizenship has slowed down, and the Deputy Prime Minister has also said in Máren that mass recording is no longer required, but, of course, the possibility is left open for those who want to continue to accept citizenship, but who would have loved to have done so in the last nine years. I would like to ask you what is the point of regulating something after its original purpose has been largely fulfilled by this law. In the last nine years, who wanted to, he has been able to take on Hungarian citizenship. Now we are going to bring about a regulation which, in any case, is very fair and should be approved, which surrounds, limits and tightens up this legislation. Numerous articles, numerous exposing materials, numerous investigative journalistic work have exposed systemic fraud. But you didn't do anything. The fact that they now increase the withdrawal period from ten to 20 years is an open admission in our interpretation that you are aware that to date many people who have obtained this by cheating, mistrusting, abuse of the backdoor of the law, still have Hungarian citizenship, but have not been able to filter it out of the system. This year, in June, there was a debate about this in the walls of this house. Even then, I quoted the words of Minister János Lázár, who, in response to the written question of Mr Attila Mesterházy, said in March 2017 that the government was indeed aware that certain criminal circles were engaged in commercial abuse of naturalisation documents. This was later, but this year, in spring 2017, Zsolt Semjén tried to nuance, partly contradict it, but neither he, nor others, then, nor since then, nor in the June debate, nor in the time since the June debate, no one has been able to prove to be credible that this is not true. Since they could not deny it, they must think that there is a reason. Ladies and gentlemen, Let's be clear, then. This current law is only a leaky cloak taken after a rain. An ex post correction in which system abuse, if modified, remains coded. If we look at how the hundreds of millions of dollars and euros from the settlement bond business were pumped into various offshore accounts on various corruption channels by various oligarchs close to the government, then we can say that there is a reasonable suspicion that various businessmen were interested in maintaining this mafia network, which was organised around Hungarian citizenship, even to this day. In fact, if you look at it, there are spooky similarities between the settlement government bond and Hungarian citizenship. In 2013, an arrangement was established which resulted in a permanent establishment or residence permit in Hungary of approximately 20 000 foreign persons who came to the country through bond purchases in four years. When this wave went down, the bond business was liquidated in 2017. Between 2011 and 2019, most of this 1 million 100,000 people were, by the way, rightly and deserved to have access to Hungarian citizenship, but in addition to the number of people who did not have anything to do with Hungarianism and who had access to it through fraud, we cannot appreciate it. But he's got a lot of weight. It is also certain that intermediaries who took this pale down after this are of considerable benefit, largely before 2013, when they referred to it as having a major tightening and ever since. Now, after this wave has subsided, and it seems that in large numbers people no longer require Hungarian citizenship, they bring this tightening up to the House. I'd say, of course, it's not unnecessary, it makes sense, and we're gonna support it, but it's really a rain suit. Finally, allow me to summarise very briefly what Jobbik has to say. Otherwise, it's very simple because it's been unchanged for ten years. We believe that Hungarian citizenship is entitled to every Hungarian person, to live in any corner of the world, but at the same time we are determined to prevent them from helping with this Hungarian citizenship, and to get this citizenship to people who are not connected to Hungarians, who have never felt to belong to the nation, who have never been part of this nation, and who will never be part of this Hungarian nation. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-11-18-315	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Fazekas, Fidesz Group.
u2019-11-18-316	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I would like to briefly reflect on what Mr János Bencsik said. Perhaps this is the most important idea of what the point of this regulation is, what is the point of redefining this area, since practically 1 million 100 000 people have already adopted Hungarian citizenship. Dear Parliament, I think, regardless of the numbers, it's right to have order in a given area of law. It is obvious that an orderly legal environment can be created if there is sufficient experience to do so. However, we all know that there are not 1 million 100 thousand Hungarians living in the surrounding states, there are many more people living among them, there are also those who then make a decision to take on Hungarian citizenship, or there are states that currently prohibit it. There are at least three of these neighbors. But those laws aren't forever. So I think it is right in this area if the regulation is matured, fair and allows all our fellow nations, no matter which state they live in, to take on Hungarian citizenship in the future. I'd argue that there would be systemic level and concentrations in this area. I think it's a little pushy to refer to newspaper articles on this subject. Anyone can write a newspaper article, anyone can write it, and these alleged investigative newspaper articles didn't take any of these cases, as far as I can see, until the police, prosecutor's or courtroom. If there is a right, it is true that there is abuse of the given, guaranteed option, and in the event of abuse, it is the appropriate authority and other procedures that can find out the facts, and it is only in this respect that it is possible to take a clear position. So in such big words, a thousand and a lot of people, and I don't know what Congressman Benchik said, in this case I wouldn't throw. I think that this topic is so serious and important that we take this part seriously, and we are not setting the example of sensational, tabloid writings or press meetings. I think this is also important for the future, because the fact that there should be no abuse in this area, or that there should be as little abuse as possible, is of fundamental interest to all of us, and is of Hungarian national interest. And I think the settlement policy is a bad analogy, a completely different institution, and it's not the subject of this amendment, so I guess I don't have to deal with that right now. I trust the Parliament will support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-18-317	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group. Here you go. [[21.50]]
u2019-11-18-318	I wouldn't have said anything to him again, but I listened to the thoughts of Congressman Sándor Fazekas. We were just saying that we were not talking about newspaper articles, we were talking about ministry answers, so that is what my fellow Member Benchik and I were talking about. For years, we have been writing to the Minister of the Interior, writing to many others, the then minister of János Lázár, who, after a while, acknowledged that there was this problem. I agree with my fellow Member, Mr Fazekas, that we need this opportunity, because at any time someone can decide to take on Hungarian citizenship, so that part of the story is fine with me. Let us give you the opportunity, I do not believe that this process has been completed, many have not yet claimed it, they may need it later, or they will decide that they will still require this Hungarian citizenship. And I have always argued in this regard, my fellow Member, Mr Secretary of State, that it is precisely because this institution has a symbolic significance, and therefore we have an exponential interest in detecting fraud, because otherwise we are being framed for a positive symbol that some people abuse. There's always been bad people, there's always gonna be bad people. Those who want to make a business out of something and make money by cheating will always have those who violate the law, too, but I think that in this case, which has become a Hungarian national symbol, indeed, and apart from a few Members, the Hungarian Parliament has also agreed, I think that we should take care of this symbol, Hungarian citizenship, and we should take better care of it than perhaps other things. Therefore, I think more attention is needed at this stage, and I think that it is also worth paying more attention to sound criticism, because in many cases it is not a party political intention, but, if I may say so, the same concern that may be expressed by government representatives in relation to this institution, perhaps in relation to other matters. So I think that it is right that this process should go forward, and I do not feel that this process is terminal or closed, but strictness and attention may be more justified because of the nature and importance of the institution than not talking about it or not dealing with it. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-18-319	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman János Bencsik, you have 26 seconds. Here you go.
u2019-11-18-320	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor, I would not want to waste the remaining 26 seconds. I say to Congressman Potter, systemic fraud is proven by the fact that a separate business has been built for this. So circles who produced the publication of this, the proof of Hungarian ancestors, and the false native language knowledge were produced. If this had affected a few dozen people, there wouldn't have been a separate business. And the fact that he was a sensationalist to invent the tabloid press proves the case of Roman Nasirov, who I referred to earlier, who was the head of the Ukrainian customs office, a high-ranking officer who fell down in 2017 with a corruption charge, and that's when they realized...
u2019-11-18-321	Thank you very much, Congressman.
u2019-11-18-322	...and the entire Ukrainian press was covered, and the Hungarian passport was lying in his pocket next to the Ukrainian. So that's all I wanted. There are stories like that. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-18-323	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP.
u2019-11-18-324	Thank you. I have just forgotten one more sentence about the settlement policy, which was also mentioned by my fellow Member, Mr Fazekas. I think it is right to withdraw the parallel with the fact that people who have slipped through a security check had access to Hungary in connection with settlement bonds, and indeed, they had criminal backgrounds. So, in this sense, there is probably some systemic problem in these checks, too, but this is indeed not the subject of this law. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-18-325	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he'd like to respond. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2019-11-18-326	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, In this regard, one eye cries for this bill and the other laughs, because, although it has been said by all the groups present in opposition, that the bill will be supported, which I think is correct, and I thank you very much, and of course we count on the support of the pro-government factions, but the other side of the matter is the line of opposition that we have heard here in the last few minutes. There has been an enormous amount of exaggeration and inaccuracies, which, by the way, I do not think is good for the case. So if we are serious here about the fact that the institution of simplified localization and the result that we have achieved since 2010 is that 1.2 million new Hungarian citizens have been created, then I think that such and similar speeches at least try to put this result in parentheses, and I would like to express my objection. On the one hand, Congresswoman Demeter said that the investigation of these abuses is carried out in a manner which is not refuted by the government, but otherwise in secret. This is happening so secretly. [[Márta Demeter: I didn't say it was secret.]] that there is a figure in the explanatory statement of this bill, which relates to the fact that until May, since the referral is now a few months earlier, the Members will find a May data here, but there is a figure that says that until May 2019 177 of these fraudulently acquired citizenships have been withdrawn. [[Márta Demeter: For once I didn't say it was a secret.]] So there's no secrecy in this case, the law enforcement and the investigating authorities... sorry if I misunderstood, but that was the tone of your entire speech. So if the law enforcement and investigative authorities do their job and if they find out accordingly that they have abused the institution of simplified naturalisation in some way, the President of the Republic, in the same way as the Minister's proposal, withdraws the fraudulently acquired citizenship in the case of naturalisation cases. I would also like to respond to Mr Benchik's speech. We think that the extension of the period of withdrawal of fraudulently acquired citizenship from 10 to 20 years, regardless of the number of such cases, means legal certainty and protection of the institution of Hungarian citizenship. So I would like to ask you not to attack this measure, at least this part of the bill, but to defend it, because it is precisely for the protection of the objectives you have put forward. The other is that if we accept the two numbers that have been said here in the debate, one is 1.2 million nativeised citizens, and the other is because this is in the explanatory statement, and you have not attacked it, so this 177 is a withdrawal of citizenship, so if we project the two numbers against each other, then it will come out that we are talking about 0.01 percent. So what will come out is that 0.01 percent of the cases are problematic, and what the authorities, the prosecutors or police that perform investigative tasks had to do, and at the end of which, the President of the Republic had to make a decision. I think, of course, that, like all human systems, this does not close perfectly, like in all human systems and state systems, there are errors in this, but this figure, 0,01 percent, clearly shows that there has not been any systemic abuse that you mentioned in the speech. Let me give you two more examples of why I consider opposition speeches to be excessive. One example was that you demanded why, for example, we had not recorded fingerprints in 2010 in accordance with the current conditions. Mr. Congressman, it is not because Hungarian citizens didn't have any identity card, not for the natives, but for the Hungarian citizens who obtained Hungarian citizenship with birth, so this 93,000 square kilometers of Hungarian citizens didn't have any fingerprints in their lives either, because they were accepted by the Parliament in 2015 and we will issue identity cards in a system that will record facials, signatures and fingerprints in 2016. Obviously, after the introduction and after the consolidation, this system will now extend to the authors of Hungarian citizenship with naturalization, who in many cases do not require the identity card. So behind this was the well-intentioned government goal of why we burden these citizens with bureaucratic procedures that are not important to them. [[22.00]] Because in many cases, these people are satisfied with the citizenship certificate or receive the address cards, which they can apply for separately, the passport with a biometric identifier, if this is necessary for them to travel. So I think that this was a sensible consideration, on the one hand, the technical conditions were not guaranteed not only for them, but also for all Hungarian citizens. These are now available and, on the other hand, we have been thinking that the procedures are not necessarily worth complicated. And by now, we've come to the point where we think that if that's the common understanding, then it's worth adding an additional set of procedures in this direction. Of course, in the bill, we have tried to lay down the framework for this to involve as little bureaucratic obstacles as possible for Hungarian citizens planning or going through the naturalization process or planning it. The other thing is that you link this up in your speech with oligarchs and offshore knights and criminals and other stories, and I can't put it any different than folklore. It's a myth. The vast majority of people who want to get back what they have taken away from XX are ordinary Hungarian citizens. Company. And I think that the Hungarian Parliament, if such a national consensus has been established in this regard, has the task of fulfilling this will in some way, and the institution of simplified naturalization is capable of fulfilling this will. I therefore thank you very much for the support of the opposition groups, but the other thing, and I would like to underline this once again, is that I would ask you with great respect not to infect this bill and the related public debate with what you are trying to infect that your internal political logic, in which the government is accused of such things, will be extended to this bill and to those people who, in agreement with Congressman Mesterházy, will continue to apply for Hungarian citizenship. So we think it's XX. The century still owes to these people, and to them as many as possible, everyone who claims to do so must receive or obtain Hungarian citizenship. So I would like to thank you once again for your support, and I really would like to ask you for a very small degree of restraint in the voice of deepest respect, in terms of the internal political context. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-18-327	I thank the Secretary of State for his response to what was said in the debate. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the proposed amendment of individual laws to industrial and trade regulation and harmonisation for legal harmonisation and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. The government referral is T/7694. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee.
u2019-11-18-328	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 14 November 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/7694 amending certain laws from the point of view of industrial and trade regulation and for legal harmonisation purposes. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 25 votes in favour, 5 against and 4 abstentions. The aim of the proposal is to establish the criteria for a preliminary proportionality assessment of regulated professions and to align them with the new Community rules on the mutual recognition of goods within the framework of the fulfilment of EU harmonisation obligations. The purpose of the amendment to Act C of 2001 on the recognition of foreign certificates and diplomas is to comply with the Directive on proportionality tests to be carried out prior to the adoption of new regulations on professions. The amendment will have incrementally beneficial effects in terms of labour market and competitiveness, given that the number of regulatory restrictions to be introduced in the future in the regulated professions is expected to be lower. Ladies and gentlemen, In conclusion, the proposal before us contains forward-looking provisions, since its main objectives include, among other things, more effective anti-money laundering, cutting red tape, ensuring conditions for fair economic competition and increasing the competitiveness of the economy. In view of this, I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the amendment. Thank you for your attention. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2019-11-18-329	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Tamás Schanda, as rapporteur, whether he would like to speak at this stage of the debate or later. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-11-18-330	Mr President, Dear Parliament, I'll be brief. The overall objectives of the proposal for a decision are linked to the fulfilment of the EU's obligation to harmonise legislation and, as we have already heard, will allow more effective action against money laundering, reducing bureaucracy, ensuring conditions for fair economic competition and increasing economic competitiveness. Overall, it can therefore be said that legislative amendments reduce the burden on domestic businesses, increase their competitiveness and create a clear, reliable and transparent regulatory environment. For this reason, I would also ask the honourable Parliament to support and adopt the summarised amendment proposal and the bill. Thank you.
u2019-11-18-331	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik Group.
u2019-11-18-332	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The rapporteur of the Legislative Committee presented the vote on the proportion of the committee's support for this proposal. The reason for the abstention and the non-voting was extremely simple: Article 18 The new amendment, which is not, in fact, part of the spirit of the bill, is the abolition of certain national security controls in the trade and service of military technology products, which completely undermines the value of this otherwise well-structured bill. I was surprised myself when one of my fellow Members was appointed as the topic supervisor at the plenary session, and you said the sentence that attracted my interest and attention, given the fact that my professional role in the Parliament is to participate in the Defence Committee, and I pay close attention to the rules of this kind and to such matters. In plenary, I have already said my problem in this regard as a speaker, and I have said that today, especially because of the challenges of the global world, we cannot allow the unsupervised exchange of military equipment and services in private trade to be unlimited. At the borders of Europe, terrorist and guerrilla organisations operate at a level that carries out war conflicts and acts of terrorism, so that unfortunately no country can afford to allow the movement of this area without national security control. Since the plenary session, I have had one more experience: today's joint committee on national security and defence, which, of course, I cannot say a word of substance due to secrecy. [[22.10]] But I do not offend a secret if I indicate that today the invitation was made public by the Director-General of the Military National Security Service, and I asked him a question on this subject, because I wanted to make sure that this activity showed any characteristics that would suggest that there are persons dangerous from a national security point of view in this market. That is the answer we have received, and I also cannot say the specific data, because I do not wish to break a secret, but believe me, my fellow Members, none of you were present at this meeting, there have been a significant number of national security inspections in the last year. This means that if we remove this mandatory national security control, we will give you the opportunity to trade military technology through the jurisdiction of our country that we are in fact fully vulnerable. In this proposal, it is proposed that Article 2 should be amended accordingly. The conditions set out in Section 5 of this Article may be granted if the conditions laid down in Article 5 are met. The checks provided for in paragraph 5 of Section 5 shall be carried out against the persons concerned. This legislation is set out in Article 5. § 5 is repealed, which means that then these persons do not need to have a national security screening, although according to the reports of the available services, they have to carry out quite a lot of such checks, but it is also a fact that a very significant percentage of this has been on the grid in the last year. We can't help ourselves. Moreover, I must say that the pro-government representatives do not appreciate what is contained in this proposal on the basis of the text of the legislation, but are trying to explain that this licence application does not cease, only the national security control, because otherwise, for this trade in military technology, the provision of services requires authorisation, so it should be allowed, but only this additional control, the obligation of national security control, will cease. But that can't mean that I'm going to allow it, but I don't need national security control over how I can be sure when I issue the permit that we're not trading military technology against our country or our federal system or our citizens, or even the citizens of Europe, or even the citizens of remote countries. I said it at the plenary session, and I asked that this be considered at the committee meeting, whether this proposal will remain so, because unfortunately the Jobbik Group cannot vote for this legislation. I was hoping, for example, that I would see data this morning that I would say that it was good, I was worried, but we see that there is no problem, there is no problem, there is no such thing as mistrust, but to be honest, since this morning, I think that this control should not be abolished even more. The money laundering issue, the regulation on metal trading, is a serious value of the proposal. I asked in plenary why it took 30 years to wait for this, and I hope it is not that someone wants to dominate this market and that there must be regulated trade. I don't even understand why we had to wait so long for this anyway. We know very well that there is an enormous amount of black money generated by the metal trade. For example, if I look at nothing other than the extra profit from the purchase of defence incurrence, where the defence was forced to sell its already unused quantities of metal, and the market could certainly have obtained a huge extra profit, but the amount of metal obtained from ordinary citizens was also a market that should have been regulated. So, for example, this is a serious value of this proposal, but I stress that it cannot be accepted, and today a responsible Member of Parliament is voting against the fact that Article 18 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union does not apply. This mandatory national security control shall be abolished. And I simply cannot imagine what is stated in the reasoning of the proposal that this procedure has been an excessive burden for entrepreneurs. I have to speak in flower language again, because I'd tell you a secret if I told you how many of these things were, I couldn't do that, but believe me, there wasn't that much that would normally involve such a heavy burden on the business community. So that didn't prove it either. I asked the expert, the manager, how difficult these procedures are. I'm not gonna tell you a secret if I tell you it's not bullshit. So it is not such an additional burden for the business community. No more burden than the permit itself for trade in and service of military equipment, so although this bill is to be put to the House tomorrow, I am very, very much asking that it be possible at the last moment, but consider the repeal of this or of this 18th. I feel very bad that, in spite of the provisions of a great deal of value, it cannot be voted in favour. By the way, when the representatives of the government attack the opposition or Jobbik in response to various responses, we get the order that we have not voted for this or that new rule. It always turns out that we couldn't vote for it because it was in a salad law where there were four or five or even just one new provision, and we simply can't do it to vote, and then it comes out that we, by the way, didn't want to support nurses, educators, I don't know who we didn't want to support because we didn't vote for legislation. But simply, if these rules are not brought here individually, but they are always brought before us in a salad law which is otherwise unrelated to each other, then there is nothing we can do, we need to press no, because then we would get from society what we voted for or why we voted for. So be a man on his feet, who wants to be a good representative of the people at the same time, and he wants to meet the people, and he wants to be a constructive Member of Parliament at the same time, where we are going together, whether it is an opposition or a pro-government representative, for good, for matters that are really important to society. This proposal is a trap just like this one. We don't like being trapped, but we can't support that. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2019-11-18-333	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter, the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2019-11-18-334	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. I would like to join my fellow Member before me, who has very well highlighted the point of this bill, which is actually unacceptable. Under any circumstances, any faction, party politics, is not a party political issue at all, but a very hard security issue. I would like to mention, at the beginning of my speech, the point that has been discussed less so far, namely that with this amendment, a government decree would also provide for what is actually a military technical product instead of a law. So this in itself is a very strange and very problematic thing. So this can cause very serious problems both legally and in substance, because the substantive scope of the law cannot otherwise be laid down in a government decree. So this would also be a point on which I would ask the representatives of the government to consider and take it out of this proposal. Furthermore, I think it is right for us to ask what exactly the government's purpose is with this amendment, which I have just mentioned. The question also rightly arises as to what means would they want to exclude from the concept of military technical product, which, by the way, there are future hopes for this. So the Hungarian state is planning a trade with a specific company? Would you like to export equipment and not be used as military technology? What is the reason for this? Unfortunately, we didn't get an explanation for that. I've been looking very hard at the justification myself, but we didn't find anything about it. [[22.20]] The other, to which my fellow Member pointed out, is that a permit to carry out the military industry will no longer require the responsible head of the requesting company to have statutory national security control. You really justify this by imposing a disproportionate additional burden on the farmer on national security control, so it is necessary to delete it. Public suppliers may have access to national security controls, but it is not justified to impose general conditions on all undertakings. So we can't interpret this any other way than where we can control it under other legal authority as owner, so we could maintain the security check, but where we can't, let's not control it, but rather delete it? I really hope, fellow Members and Secretary of State, that you feel how absurd this is, and no matter how many of these checks were, exactly what happened. Whatever it is, what does a disproportionate extra burden mean? It is in the interest of national security to carry out these checks. So if there are many of these, and this requires more infrastructure, personnel, whatever the conditions, then I think that the State has a duty to ensure that this greater burden may be borne and implemented by the competent organisations. So it is by no means a solution that something is a heavy burden for the state, and then it will be abolished quickly. Unfortunately, we have seen an example of this in recent years, but I do not think that this leads in the right direction. Secondly, there is simply no country that would allow a company to carry out military activities or any related commercial activity in its territory without a security check. We continue to believe that this legislative amendment proposal is extremely dangerous by eliminating the mandatory national security control of trade in war technology products. And what assurance is there, how do we know which organizations would want to set up Hungarian businesses, and if they do so and there is no control, who will they trade with? Then is it not the case that groups in conflict zones, or organised criminal groups, will be supported? I would very much ask you to withdraw this part of the bill. And we have not yet received any explanation that any practice would support the need for this amendment. And I would like to express my hope that this change is not related to Hungarian arms procurement, commercial intentions or defence activities. And I can only hope that in the near future, a company that may feel specifically a beneficiary of this amendment will not appear. I hope that we will get answers to these questions, and I also ask you very much to consider this. If this is in the bill, the LMP fraction will certainly not be able to support it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-11-18-335	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group.
u2019-11-18-336	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Colleagues have been going around this issue precisely, which has caused problems in all opposition groups. I would like to draw the State Secretary's attention to the fact that the same debate had already taken place in Parliament once when we held the general debate, and then I also asked Mr State Secretary to give me an answer as to why this legislation on military equipment, this national security control, had to be removed from this circle. [[Tamás János Schanda is consulting with Dr. Andrea Varga-Damm.]] I'll wait for Mr. Secretary of State to discuss things. If we've lasted this long, let us ask for a little more attention. There's not much time left, or I'll discuss the eight minutes as punishment. [[Defiance.]] So I'm just curious that since we didn't get an answer, it doesn't make sense what they're doing, it inevitably arises in the opposition that there's some underlying interest they're doing it for. In English, if that's not logical, there's no clear answer from the government, then we're forced to think that they have some kind of buddy who's interested in it, and that's why they're doing it. Therefore, with all due respect, I would also like to ask the Secretary of State to answer for the many times now, who the hell is disturbed by this national security inspection. I know that there is such a risk all the time, because we've been through it before, because there are evil, ugly people, in this area too, and certainly here. In English: if the state has already been able to carry out this task, then why do you feel that now you have no further capacity for this? Thank you very much.
u2019-11-18-337	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I ask that someone else would like to speak in the time frame available during the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Tamás János Schanda: Yes.]] Yeah. I would like to inform the Secretary of State that you have 9 minutes and 6 seconds to respond. You have the floor.
u2019-11-18-338	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, The thing is, I'm trying to give you a professional answer, and I'm trying to convince you why this bill is worth supporting, even if I think we're going from afar, but I'm going to try one at this late hour. I do not speak of all the other parts of the bill, which are not related to ominous points. Nor do I make any reference to what Congressman Mesterházy said, to stick to professional issues. [[Attila Mesterházy: That was also a professional question!]] I can start talking about socialist companies, but it's not good for us at this late hour. With the amendment of the Military Technology Act, national security control will not be terminated in the course of military technical licensing, and the national security aspects of the country will continue to be fully enforced in this area. National security services exercise general control over the traffic of military equipment and services, and this is clearly guaranteed by the National Security Services Act. These provisions state that the Constitutional Protection Office is involved in the detection, prevention, prevention and control of illegal traffic in military equipment and services and that the Military National Security Service is involved in the detection, prevention, prevention and control of illegal traffic in internationally controlled products and technologies as well as military equipment and services. The amendment concerned aims solely at the fact that, in the case of a specific type of authorisation, the head of the company's national security control will not be generally mandatory. National security interests often require a different focus, rather than an investigation into the company's activities. The services are entitled to do so under the National Security Act, but based on their professional judgement, they may be part of the control of a specific person, even the head of the company. Once again, I would like to point out that the proposed amendment does not affect the effective control of the above general national security aspect. The technical reason for the amendment was that around 500 companies have permissions to operate in the military industry, which sometimes expire at 500 companies, and these permits sometimes expire and national security checks should be carried out on company managers. However, it is often not necessary to check the manager or, where appropriate, to check. For example, I do not think that this type of control is necessary with regard to the head of a medical company that is engaged in the domestic marketing of a military tourniquet. This is unnecessarily binding the resources of the services. But, for example, with regard to the production and service authorisation of a police staff or military tents, military equipment, personal protective equipment, helmets, bulletproof vests, I think that the control of the company manager is not necessarily necessary, and this is not the best use of the capacity of the services. Rather, the focus should be on real activities in the professional operation of the services. [[22.30]] Congresswoman Demeter raised one more question as to why military or military equipment is registered at the level of a government decree. This is an EU harmonisation. Every year, the list of these instruments is updated, not by law amendment, but by government regulation, which is once again taking off a significant burden, I think we all have to take it off our shoulders. I hope that these arguments and these aspects convince you that this is actually a well-intentioned amendment, just as the whole bill is a well-intentioned bill, which wants to steer the capacities of domestic specialist services in the direction of real tasks rather than spending their time carrying out unnecessary inspections. That is why I am asking you to support the bill, even because I can reassure you that the country is safe, and that this is a priority task for the government, and that is why we are doing everything we can. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-18-339	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the proposal for vocational training and the final proposal for an amendment follow up. The government referral is T/7843. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee.
u2019-11-18-340	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform the House that T/7843 on vocational training was discussed by the Legislative Committee at its meeting on 14 November 2019. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 25 votes in favour, 6 votes against and 3 abstentions. The purpose of this bill is to establish the legal basis for the in-depth reform and renewal of the VET system, the legislative framework for the innovative and coordinated functioning of the VET system, by adopting the necessary legislation to achieve the values, objectives and policy orientations set out in the VET 4.0 strategy. The proposal creates a classic form of dual training adapted to German, Austrian and Swiss practices. The new structure defines two types of vocational training institutions: technics and vocational training schools. The technics offer five years of undivided training, which ends with a graduation exam and a degree in technicians, while vocational schools provide for a three-year training period for those with primary education. Another priority of the proposal is to improve the financial appreciation of workers in vocational training. More than 32,000 teachers and teachers will receive a significant wage increase, with an average wage increase of 30 percent. In the future, instructors in vocational training will be subject to the Labour Code. Teachers can enjoy unlimited benefits based on employer's decision, retain the right to the Jubilee Prize, the Teacher ID, and become members of the National Teacher Faculty. In addition, the bill states that from the next academic year, students in all vocational training institutions will receive from the first year a scholarship guaranteed by the State. Following the sector-based training, students can conclude a vocational training contract with a company or enterprise as part of dual training, which can be paid from these companies. And underprivileged students, if they learn well, will be eligible for special support through the Apáczai Scholarship. Ladies and gentlemen, The present draft proves to be supportive, because it is an important aspect of the new regulation that students in the new system should have a competitive education, the knowledge and attractive career prospects required by the economy, and that the draft provides higher wages, more appreciation and other opportunities for teachers in vocational training to pursue their chosen profession. The draft law provides a sure basis for further strengthening, strengthening the Hungarian economy, achieving full employment, and increasing Hungary's competitiveness. I therefore warmly ask my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-18-341	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Tamás Schanda, Minister of State, as rapporteur, if he would like to speak at this stage of the debate. [[On the sign of Tamás János Schanda:]] The Secretary of State points out that he intends to speak at a later stage in the debate. I would like to point out to the Secretary of State that you will have a total timeframe of ten minutes. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. I give the floor to Ms Erika Kissné Köles, Slovenian minority speaker, rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, who will present the first sentences of his speech in the language of nationality and then translate it into Hungarian. Speaking woman, please.
u2019-11-18-342	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Spoštovani Predsednik, spoštovane gospe Poslanke in gospodje Poslanci, cenjeni Zbor! Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Congressmen, Dear House, At the meeting of the Hungarian Nationalities Committee on 12 November 2019 the National Assembly held the T/7843 on Vocational Training. Detailed discussion of bill No. 1. The committee did not comment on the individual amendments submitted to the bill, and at the meeting it expressed its intention to amend the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. The Committee presented the Commission's proposal for an amendment, drawn up by it and closing the detailed debate, in accordance with the house rules. Vocational training in Hungary shows, mutatis mutandis, systemic differences from the system of general education as a whole. Its specific training structure, the theoretical, practice-oriented theoretical and typical differences in the elements of practical education and education, appear to deepen, in particular, in relation to educators, on the basis of changes in the bill before us. In addition to providing competitive professional knowledge to students, parents and future employers, we have an important interest in educating professionals who also speak the language of nationality. On the basis of the above, our Commission has put forward its proposals for amendments: 1. Vocational training in a vocational training institution founded by the State should also have the educational interests appropriate to the cultural autonomy of nationalities. 2. The registration rules shall be applied in the same way as the State Vocational Training Institution to a vocational training institution established by the national minority government: it shall be registered by an administrative body of vocational education and training, and registration shall be requested through the Treasury. [[22.40]] 3. In accordance with the provisions of the National Public Education Act, the right to vote and to agree on the right of the national minority self-government to hold a vocational training institution as a national self-government budgetary body should be guaranteed in the cases specified in the Government's decree, i.e. it is necessary to agree or seek the opinion of the minority self-government concerned. 4. The Commission's amending proposal clarifies the rules of cooperation agreements between the Minister for Vocational Education and Training concerning the provision of basic vocational training tasks, which can be concluded with a minority self-government, or on the basis of its social support or the provision of a prominent public service, with other non-state maintainers, and extends it to the involvement of the Minister for Nationality Policy with regard to the national self-government. 5. The proposal makes it clear that the foundation entitled to establish a vocational training institution should also be understood as a public foundation that operates at the time of the entry into force of the submitted bill. The acquisition of modern, knowledge-based and market-based professional knowledge, the acquisition of professional knowledge in high-quality education, and the possession of a certificate of appropriate qualifications are also in the interest of our ethnic communities as good professionals in the labour market. The Committee of Hungarian Nationalities requests that the Members and ladies with the right to vote in Parliament agree with and support our proposals. Hvala za posornost! Thank you for your attention.
u2019-11-18-343	Thank you very much, Madam Speaker. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. First, I give the floor in the order of applications to Mrs Krisztina Hohn, the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2019-11-18-344	Thank you very much for the floor. At such a late hour, in our quietness, we can reflect and express our opinion. I suppose you've seen in the last few minutes or a couple of hours that the opposition doesn't always have the intention of expressing criticism, because what's good is good, which is not. I'm going to try again to express the opinion of the Democratic Union of Teachers, and I'd like to interpret it. I stress this because I didn't make these up, I didn't buy them from the tabloid press, but the teachers working in practice came to us with the request to translate this to you, because they feel that they have been excluded from the debate of this law or from professional discussions. So both the Democratic Trade Union of Teachers and the LMP Group made up a strong opinion that this law had failed. As I pointed out earlier in the general debate, it remains important that Kjt. there is no rational reason for taking it out. There is no reason for the planned wage increase, wage deal, so-called flexible employment, but not guaranteed by law, because it is Kjt. This may also be possible under the scope of this Regulation. Rather, a provision should be amended to ensure that non-educator-educated professionals are directly admitted to grade I and that salaries under the teacher-promotion system should be retired to the minimum wage. It must be mentioned that employment results in a much greater vulnerability than civil servant status, and that is what these teachers are currently afraid of. Another disadvantage is that those employed by a contract of assignment are not full members of the teaching community, their duties are limited only to the performance of the tasks covered by the contract of assignment. A vocational training contract may be terminated by mutual agreement with the date, termination or immediate termination indicated in the common agreement. On this basis, it is clear that we can expect significantly less than the exemption period provided for in the Kjt., so that those concerned will also fall away from the half of the absentee fee. We have a serious concern about our fellow Member Hollik's proposal, which is aimed at what the opposition has been saying for a long time, to raise the school's obligation to 18 years of age - although this does not raise it, it would make going to school a responsibility of the parent. We believe that this age reduction could be corrected by setting the education obligation by 18 years of age. The school year is a five - day teaching week in the class on which public education is held, and Saturday, Sunday and public holidays are a day of rest without teaching. This is not in line with the provisions of the Code of Work. The public holidays in the labour code are partly separate from rest days. Working on a public holiday is prohibited under the main rule of the Labour Code, only in exceptional cases. Saturday, Sunday, and public holidays are uneducated rest days. On the one hand, if it is a rest day, then obviously there is no teaching, and on the other hand, it washes the rest day and the public holiday together. I would like to add once more, not to add to the word at this late hour, too long, that we believe that we should not think that the views expressed by the players in the profession should be swept off in a moment, even out of principle, by looking at who submitted it, not by looking at its contents, but by perhaps looking at it, because opposition actors and professional actors express their concerns and comments on a particular bill, in this case on vocational training, do so with a positive intention. We too would like to see a multitude of legislative proposals that we too condemn to accept and press the yes button with a good heart and a clean conscience. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-18-345	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Ander Balázs, Jobbik Group.
u2019-11-18-346	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to begin with a quote from 1886 in the book John the Man: The Financial Situation of the Folk Teacher. He says: "I firmly believe, based on experience, that the present mass of our popular education cannot rise from its miserable state until we create an acceptable material existence for teaching. I would like to convince others that many of the problems of our popular education come from the common source of material distress, and if we want to remedy the problems: first of all, we must put in their source. One of the main things, let's just say, is that what was pulled away from teachers with this bill, is that those affected can receive about 30 percent wage increases. By the way, János Ember wrote these lines in a way that he complained that the monthly salary of a beginner folk teacher was three times the salary of a teacher at that time, so let's say that if we turn it to the current minimum wage, it would mean that someone here should be sad about a net starting salary of HUF 300,000. Unfortunately, half of this is not being taken home by teachers. So, when you say it's going to be a huge increase here, these numbers and the conditions over a hundred years ago, which made a lot of people who were worried about public education, education, raise their words and talk about them, it would be appropriate to compare them. We say to this bill that, under the heading of reform of vocational training, you would increase uncertainty and vulnerability. It is said that by leading teachers and the teachers concerned out of the status of civil servants and by applying to them the Labour Code, education will be more competitive. I'm sorry, we can't talk about this at all. If you were to listen to the teachers' unions that Mrs Hohn was just talking about; unfortunately, their hearing did not take place, because we know what, according to the government, or in the government's understanding, is a discussion here, the typically János Kóka consultation. [[22.50]] He said they wouldn't even ask frogs when they drained the swamp. For you... [[János Schanda is shaking his head.]] But, Mr. Secretary, that's right, no matter how much you shake your head. Unfortunately, the Hungarian reality is that the negotiation for you means that they say something, they issue a dictatorship, and if they don't nod to it, then that's it. But it's not a negotiation. We should listen to these people, because the most effective person in education is, let me put it this way, the educator. Teachers, on the other hand, protest against Parragh László's madness. He said that the status of civil servant is some kind of protected status, and that gives teachers more peace and predictability, which is why they can sit back and get paid as if they were working with full force. Again, I have to say that the person who put it that way actually met with a well-educated, like, vocational school, high school teacher. Please, when I taught you, I don't remember going to work without feeling like it. But there were a lot of days when I came home, like I got hit in the head with a giant jerk, and for hours I just stared out of my head. Because it is the job of teachers whose job is to deal with children and young people who are in vocational training 60 percent of students overall, about 60 percent of those young people who leave primary school and one third of them are in the type of institution now called vocational school, so many times they have primary social problems or socialised losses that these teachers have to cope with in order to raise people of value for Hungarian society from these young people. And if you think these teachers aren't working enough, you've never been to a school like this. Our colleagues sweat blood to carry out the tasks they have undertaken as a profession, but this is not going to work. Teachers will thus, with this proposal, only become more frustrated. And when I say that vulnerability and uncertainty will increase, then allow me another relevant quote, because I think that this is very, very typical of today's Hungarian situation, I mean, on the pedagogical front: if we oppose, if we say what we do not like, then we are obviously playing with our lives in quotes. I don't mean to put a bullet in our heads, we don't die by the electric chair, we've got a much worse thing to do. Arrogance, everyday psychological terror, qualification, labelling, negative criticism, a pressure to sweep me out of the way like garbage. That's how they push you off the road to the goals, distract you from dreams, successes, subjugating all efforts, bouncing puppies and a society of washed-up or dust-up bastards. Of course, the narrow layer that tells us who belongs to which camp may belong. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Mr Secretary, even during the general debate, which I do not wish to repeat in detail, but I did have 25 minutes to explain that there are many examples, such a sad, dreadfully shameful example, when these teachers are set on the edge of the carpet, not because of their professional work, because if they do it wrong, it is absolutely legitimate. For a very different reason, let's say on a political basis. This amendment of the law gives them the opportunity to be controlled by the power, the power at all times. But there is no need to be upset when my fellow Member, Mr Csányi, in his interpellation, also says that you wish to make NER servants of the nation's day laborers. You can smile at this, but once again, Secretary of State, you should listen to the teachers, what they say, how they feel about their skin, and not just because the salary is low, the salary that they would now make up for, because we should never forget that they have frozen the projection fund at the minimum wage level in 2014, i.e. at a level of HUF 101,500, which means that teachers are being deprived of severe tens of thousands every month. Now some of the teachers, about a fifth of what they've taken over the years, would make up for it. But it's not a real raise, they're giving back something they took before. Now this so-called increase will apply to public education, public education, let us say, its pedagogical shelter, vocational training institutions, vocational secondary schools. But we look forward to the fact that this loophole, which is now being opened, is leading those involved out of the status of civil servants, where will it go? What if the next draft is that all Hungarian teachers must be placed under the Labour Code and be in a much more vulnerable position? All we can say is no. Overall, it is part of the truth here that there are many positive points in this bill. Let's just say, yes, there are some very good things in it, but let me live with a nasty metaphor, I'm trying to be subtle. It's kind of like serving a great menu in a restaurant, and then the chef is gonna ruin you in the middle of the tray, and he's gonna say, "Here you go, eat it, and you're gonna be upset when the guests say thank you, but we don't want any of this, even if there are delicious snacks on it. You, Mr. Secretary of State, are doing this. That's what the teachers say, but I don't understand why they don't listen. Obviously, if you'd listen, you'd have to face these suggestions. Well, I've talked about salaries, but I haven't talked about how busy the teachers are, and despite all the lies here in Rétvári that they teach 608 hours a year, and that's a lot less than, say, the EU average, that's not true. Hungarian teachers work more than the EU average, but they now bring home less than their Romanian colleagues with an average of HUF 30,000 a month. Secretary of State, we have asked our amendments to give us this raise, which would otherwise be due, and it would be worth it to the teachers for years, not just a small slice of them, and not to pair it by taking from them the status of civil servant, because Parragh and I can agree that, yes, this gives the teachers a sense of calmness and predictability. Let's leave these competitiveness horseies alone. A nanite wholesaler doesn't want to talk about things that are a thousand percent pedagogy. Once again, you should see the children that teachers and teachers do in these vocational schools! This is not simply an economic issue; this is also a deeply pedagogical issue. I, and we, and I can say that the entire opposition wanted them to think about these issues, but we see that everything is deaf. We are sad about it, because once again I can only stress that there were some things here that we could sincerely, wholeheartedly support, and we believe that this would have served to bring home vocational training from one to two, but in this way, we cannot support it in parallel with sweeping down our amendments. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-18-347	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group.
u2019-11-18-348	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the law is, in a sentence, to establish an attractive vocational training system for young people with creative and flexible skills with competitive skills, which can match the changing requirements of social processes, the national economy and the labour market. I think that this goal is likely to be true every year when we talk about vocational training or education, and then there were those who said that vocational training should be driven by demand. This is an extremely difficult task. So, before I say that the government is living in a permanent reform of vocational training, because this is probably the third time that everything is renamed, a fantastic reform is announced, and every such occasion is actually a confession to the fact that the previous reform did not work and did not deliver the expected results; but before we talk about it, this demand-driven approach is indeed a difficult task, because due to automation, robotisation, there will be a number of jobs that will cease to exist and new jobs will be created. So figuring out what will be needed in a 3-5-10-year perspective, what the economy will need, no matter what government it is, must be a very difficult task. [[23.00]] In particular, I read in some survey that Hungarian workers are engaged in activities that can be automated for 40 percent of their working time. So a significant amount of labour can be released if we move forward in this area. Therefore, it is probably flexibility and creativity, but it is essentially flexibility that will certainly determine the lives of these people, and that must also be the way to prepare. Of course, flexibility requires the development of basic skills, the development of language skills and IT skills; in this direction there have been quite a lot of steps backwards in recent years. When we talk about dual training, a lot of people raise the problem for me that this practice-oriented training is good if it is accompanied by a supportive corporate culture, because in many cases these young people in Hungary are considered by different companies as a kind of burden or a lump. In Hungarian, not only would it contribute to their training by working with a company, whether small or medium-sized, but rather by rejecting them, especially by companies that work well or provide high quality or quality services, because they feel that this is only a barrier to their activities. So in Hungarian, in the development of supporting corporate culture, something should also be done to ensure that this dual training is truly effective. I'd like to mention some of the problems, because of the shortness of time, it's more of a taxat. Indeed, we also find it problematic to lose the status of civil servant. I don't see why that would interfere with the wage increase, but it certainly affects your sense of security for those working there. I also do not understand why specialized schools are excluded from vocational training institutions, because training children requiring special education, which are in some way disadvantaged, combined with medical education, I think it is essential that they also have a full life. I also do not understand why trade unions cannot set up such schools, because if churches and others can start, at least that's what I read in the material, then why is it not available. Let me ask you another interesting question, or at least an interesting question for me, which may have been less said so far. I do not know how well you know these statistics, Mr State Secretary, and I have now looked into this fact, that there is also a significant difference in vocational training for men and women. Women are simply more inclined to choose less marketable professions, with which their job position will be more difficult and their salary will be lower. In English, do you have any suggestions or solutions for the difference between these two sexes? After all, if we encode this derogation into the system here at vocational training, then later it will go through their entire lives that the ladies are in a more disadvantaged position than the gentlemen. In Hungarian, the issue of equal opportunities between men and women should also be addressed, for sure, if we were to pursue reforms. I will say no more, because even my fellow Member, Zita Gurmai, will speak to him. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-11-18-349	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Ms Zita Gurmai, MSZP Group.
u2019-11-18-350	Thank you very much for the conference, Congressman. If two sentences should be said on the VET proposal, I must say that it is gratifying that we have also discovered the innovations of former Prime Minister Péter Kiss in this material between 2003 and 2009, which is obviously positive, and therefore thanks, but obviously also for the outsourcing of the workers, but they certainly do not receive any more money. It is undoubtedly a fact that, since 2010, the Fidesz-led government has indeed been kicking in on the conversion of domestic vocational training for the first time, and I think that in the past nine years, the direction, method and purpose of further development of vocational training has indeed been set several times, but it seems that this is still not the final one. Somehow, the results expected from the planned step have always been lacking, and the biggest problem is that the system of vocational training, the institutions, pupils and teachers are in an increasingly hopeless situation. Let's see, the first government referral was made in 2011, in which the concept of the transformation of the vocational training system was approved, in which the proposal, which was in line with economic needs, was a top priority for the development of a model of Hungarian dual vocational training based on German dual vocational training. In 2015, a second government referral was made to consolidate progress and to make vocational training more effective for employment and the economy. In 2019, the third presentation, called Vocational Training 4.0, was made. Accordingly, a new transformation will begin from 2020 onwards, this time for the Austrian example. That's what we talked about. The new technician training will start in 2020. On the one hand, the most recent changes are needed because the government wants to bring vocational training into line, which has also been discussed by colleagues, Industry 4.0, the concept of the fourth industrial revolution. On the other hand, last year, more than half of the places announced in vocational schools were unfilled, and only 18,000 applied to 50,000 places. So my question is that we can see precisely, we know that the situation of vocational schools in 2014 has fallen to the bottom, obviously, that specifically [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] There has been a decrease in the number of people, including due to the reduction in the education obligation from 18 to 16 years. So there's still a lot more to do with this to really get to the right direction. Thank you.
u2019-11-18-351	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2019-11-18-352	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen of the Council, First of all, thank you for what has been said in the debate. There are also exciting points to be discussed. On the one hand, I would like to start by saying that Mr Ander referred to my debate before the agenda with the Jobbik fraction, and I would not reopen it, because I would, on the one hand, use my time at my disposal, and, on the other hand, I think that we have already fought this once today and that we should try to talk more about professional issues. I told you what I told you, let's leave it at that. What is important is that payments and other questions have been raised here. Here, we agree on a certain aspect. Indeed, it is a difficult job to teach in vocational training institutions, and we fully agree on that. This is why we want a 30% wage increase, an average wage increase for teachers and colleagues there, creating competitive pay and flexible conditions for them. That's what our bill is about. In the end, we agree, my request is that you support our proposal. This is necessary to make these goals a reality. Trade unions have become involved in a number of contexts. First of all, I need to reassure everyone that there has been a negotiation with the unions. Mr Bódis, State Secretary, has spent hours negotiating with trade unions, and I think that there has also been a constructive discussion on the various issues that have been raised. He's been thinking about trade unions, why they can't start a school. I think that's what Congressman Mesterházy had in mind. This is a completely new proposal, and I have never heard such a suggestion, but it is worth considering that trade unions should set up schools. I think that they also have the opportunity to do so now, in such a way that not only churches, not only the state, but also foundations and associations can hold vocational training institutions. Trade unions have the opportunity to create this type of legal personality and then look at it. It would be an exciting social experiment, an interesting and surprising suggestion. [[23.10]] There has also been a question of gender inequality. It's something we're trying to deal with. It takes us a little further from the bill, but just let it draw attention to a program called TechChicks, where we try to give girls a chance on the engineering information field with a career orientation and draw their attention to it. It is not related to the debate of the bill, but if it has already been raised, I think it is important to mention that there are initiatives and intentions of this type. The fact is that we have talked about Mr Hollik's amendment, and here I must say that there is a real difference in view between us. So we think that parents do, that the family has a responsibility to their own children. We do not think left-wing etatist policy is useful, and we therefore consider this a good amendment, which is why the Government has supported this amendment and we ask for its adoption. It is because we regard Hungarian people, Hungarian citizens and Hungarian families as adults, who do have responsibility for their own children. And the state also has a task: to ensure the institutions, to ensure the acquisition of a part-time profession, to acquire a profession. However, the responsibility of adults, parents, must also appear. So there is a real difference between us here, and we believe not only in the state, but also in the freedom of citizens and the responsibility of citizens. I think it was an important issue to move from a civil servant status to a labour code. Several Members, ladies and gentlemen, have also raised this question. Here, I think that we partly disagree again, and the difference between us is a result, because we want to create an effective, flexible, performance-oriented vocational training system, which is a fundamental condition for changing employment relations. The rigidity and rigidity of Kjt. does not fit into the competitive and fast-changing vocational training system that we believe in and for which we work. On the other hand, there are quite a lot of people working in Hungary today under the Labour Code, which does not cause them to be vulnerable, and I do not think that is why it is worth worrying about. In addition, many people also work in the field of vocational training under the Labour Code, since the employment of church schools, foundational, associational reservations, and private institutions are still under the Labour Code. So they're actually in the same relationship as the teachers working in other reservations. In addition, let me point out one more thing: in the field of vocational training, we are creating the opportunity for young people to receive a significant wage in the framework of dual training, and yet this would be a strange situation for the student to receive a salary under the Labour Code and his instructor to remain under the Public Employee Act. I believe that this is, in itself, a sufficient reason to make this change happen. In addition, here, let me also address, and perhaps conclude with this, that it is very useful and I think that it is a very important part of the debate, that we have talked a lot about teachers and that we have talked less about students and young people. I hope that this was because they support the changes that are being made for young people in this bill, support scholarship opportunities, support dual training, and otherwise pay for work. So you see that this bill is a good proposal for young people, for Hungarian students, a proposal that supports their lives, their fate, their professional and private success. And, frankly, I hope that this will be a good reason for you to believe that, because we have not talked about it, so you must think that you will support the entire bill, because this is the proposal for young people. There is a bill before the National Assembly that sets out the future of the next generation or generations, creates opportunities for them, and builds on their success, because it is the task of all of us to make Hungarian young people the winners of the future, and this change is also necessary. I'm asking for the support of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2019-11-18-353	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of today's agenda. We now have post-scheduled speeches. After the agenda, Mr.Lajos Rig, Jobbik Group, applied for a speech:, Happy 60th birthday, Ajka! It's an address. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2019-11-18-354	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Why would we be afraid, if we weren't living for a dream? This year the city of Ajka is 60 years old. On 6 October 1959, the Presidential Council of 14/1959 was published in the Hungarian Gazette, issue 100. Ajka and Tósokberénd have decided to unite and transform Ajka into a city. The development of the city's economic foundations was based on the start of coal mining. Until the change of regime, the power plant was expanded, the glass factory was upgraded, the largest rural factory of Videoton was created, Timföld II was completed, urbanization accelerated. New schools, kindergartens, crèches were built, the 550-bed hospital was handed over, housing estates were set up, and the city center was renewed. In 1987 one of the Hild Prizes was awarded to Ajka by the Hungarian Urbanist Society. In the first years of the change of regime, there were no profound changes, privatisation was the first economic process that changed the life of the city. They've become new owners of the Timi factory, the glass factory, the power plant and Videoton. They closed the furnace. The molding was sold. The Le Bélier company will start operating on Ajka. They combine the mines with the power plant, the mine closures begin. This is the first great blow to Ayka's society. They're closing the Jókai mine, tearing it down. Next up is the Padrag mine. In 2004 the Ármin mine also completes its operation. Mines, once employing 5,000 people, have been closed. The number of unemployed reaches 20 percent. In order to eliminate this, the municipality will launch a job creation programme using financial support. More than 1,200 new jobs will be created. In 2016-17, a terrible amount of pines falls on the city. Fortunately, after the change of regime, companies are established in the city, which grow into large companies. It shows the city's economic strength to give 1 percent of national GDP, which is achieved by 17,000 employees. The buildings are renewed, more than 6,000 apartments become colourful. The built-up roads account for more than 70 percent. The city is almost completely remodeled. This is supported by the fact that the Council of Europe has awarded the three preventive stages of winning the Europe Prize to Ajka for urban development and urban management solutions. Here I would like to say that with similar results only two cities can boast in Hungary. The cultural thirst of the inhabitants of the city is unbelievable: 116 of the thousands of city dwellers surveyed are the number of people who go to the theatre. This city is also a nationwide high-ranking city, as is the case in sports-related indicators. [[23.20]] Nothing is impossible, and his lips have proved this on many occasions. Ladies and gentlemen, You're proud of this Danube city, aren't you? Aren't you admiring the perseverance, the will to do, the love of your country and your city, which is typical of your lips? Don't you think it's respectable and exemplary to have a community together, but I'm not giving up your attitude? Don't you think it can be a coincidence that, on the town's birthday, the Pannon Castle Theatre was presented in a dream-for-a-dream play through the history of the boys of Pál Street? You also believe that the city, which has received so many international awards, contributes so highly to the total national product, deserves support? The city that's been through so much has experienced such difficult times, every time it's reborn like a phoenix bird, it's worth all the respect. The legitimate expectation of the city of Ajka is that, while respecting its opinion, it is only the results achieved and the joint construction that will count for you in the future, and that you should not be afraid of political revenge, the withdrawal of resources, as unfortunately in recent years. The man or the man who put what on the table doesn't think of our Aika as a party. With these lines, I close my speech. Happy birthday, Aika.
u2019-11-18-355	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Member of the LMP Group, also applied for a post- Agenda address: Pécs does not want the nuclear cemetery, he does not want the uranium mine! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-11-18-356	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome my fellow Members, who are still here despite the late hour. I myself will talk about a city in Transdanubia, one can say, the largest city in Transdanubia, and I wish the city of Ajka a happy birthday. I would like to talk about Pécs and its region, about this particular issue in the region, but this speech is of far and far national importance. I think many of my fellow Members know that an unprecedented event took place on 6 and 7 November in Pécs: the Russian giant company Rosatom held a conference here, and for the first time such a conference took place outside Russia. We believe that the choice of location was symbolic: it was symbolic that Hungary was chosen by the company and that it was the city of Pécs. We believe that it was symbolic, and that it was of particular importance that this conference was tried to be kept as quiet as possible from the Hungarian government, and that the effect was felt here. We, my fellow Member, Krisztina Hohn, went to this event, looked around, and felt the very, very powerful Russian presence, because the Russian experts of Rosatom and the professionals from the Russian neighbouring Member States practically had such a domestic event. Hungarian stakeholders, precisely because they were hidden and did not give much time to register, were present in a very small number. We have good reason to believe that the choice of location has to do with the expansion of Paks, this is obvious, but also with some kind of back-up deal, which links the issue of Paks expansion, the question of possible re-launching uranium mining, and the Boda nuclear cemetery project of high-activity nuclear waste, so it combines these three legs. Although we have not yet received concrete answers to the many questions that have been asked, what is the explanation for this very serious coincidence, I repeat: we have good reason to believe that these cases are linked in this way, and that is why this conference took place in Pécs. With regard to the Paks II project, I have said to myself many times that this project is actually in every element, and as the Russians received it without a tender, it is based on a lie. It was the government's explanation that the Russians should be given the implementation of this big project without a tender because they alone will be able to implement a new nuclear power plant, but we can see that to date the Russians have not been able, long after the deadline, to deliver a complete design documentation, and that the type of authorisation procedure that should have been completed should have started at all. With regard to the uranium mine area, the Pécs know how much this can be combined with the idea of sustainability. In the area of Pécs, near Pécs, there had already been uranium mining activities, and this was a very brutal environmental destruction. We can say that for many years, research has been going on since 2010-11, and experimentations and so-called mining sites have been under way from various strange offshore companies, and all this has been done with the tacit support of the Hungarian government and the current and now failing Fidesz city administration. At the same time, the Pécs has said many times that they are not asking for new uranium mines, that would not contribute in any way to the development of Pécs's economy, but would at the same time create extremely serious, opaque environmental risks. And then there is the already mentioned nuclear cemetery project, on which research has also been going on about this for a very, very long time. So far, ten billion forints have been spent in absolute value without having once asked the city of Pécs, the people who live there, to accept such a project. We know that, and this is very typical of nuclear technology, the use of nuclear power, that the placement of high-activity nuclear waste has not been resolved anywhere in the world, so neither technology, financing nor location selection procedures have been resolved. For a very long time, the Pécs region has wanted to express its intention not to ask for this project, and we would very much like it, and we expect the government to instruct the authorities to conduct research in other alternative locations. So far, the government has not been open to listening to the words of the Pécs and the people living in the region, and the Fidesz leadership has, of course, slavishly implemented government dictatorships. At the same time, there have been very significant changes after the election of the municipal government in October: there has been the possibility that basically opposition-led city leadership has been established in Pécs, and there has been an opportunity for Pécs to finally put this issue on the agenda, to put on the agenda the issue of the reopening of the uranium mine and the question of the nuclear cemetery. In order for this to happen, we are a little before midnight, the representative of the LMP municipal council today presented these two proposals to the General Assembly in Pécs, i.e. the protest against the implementation of the uranium mine and the nuclear cemetery. Here in Parliament, I would like to draw the attention of the government and the attention of the Hungarian Parliament to the fact that if these decisions are made, and Pécs takes a clear position, rejects these two projects, then they will accept this decision as promised by the Prime Minister in 2015 and make arrangements for national decision-making to continue researching the site of the nuclear cemetery in alternative locations. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-18-357	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr László Hajdu, Member of the Democratic Coalition, also came forward after the agenda. About the cultural festival of the district this week. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-11-18-358	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, So late. In our district, a traditional cultural festival has started on Friday, which takes place in Rákospalota, Pestújhely and Újpalota, in connection with the history of the district. For ten days, we are conducting a series, and there is always a message that we think is culturally very important, and we are attached to it. We have now announced this under the name ANNO festival, and the 100th anniversary of Endre Ady's death is the motto, so a large part of the programs are somehow related to Ady's poetry and art. Annex XV is amended as follows: This is the 25th time in the district, it's almost tradition, and we're doing it as a tradition. This is related to the fact that Újpalota is 50 years old, and Pestújhely, a slightly older part of the district, is 110 years old this year, and what is more, last week he celebrated his 110th anniversary, and Rákospalota is 800 years old according to our written memories in the local history museum, as the written signs show that there were people and settlements here. In the district there is the Csokona Cultural House in Rákospalota, and there is the Újpalota Community House in Újpalota, and there is also a community house in Pestújhely. So there are three complete cultural houses, and we have a youth center named Port, and there is a later established Kosák Square Community House. In these events, we have been able to hold the events from our own sources, but I must also note here in the late hours that the cultural normative, from which a district with 81,000 inhabitants can conduct its own cultural activities, does not reach 30 million forints of state normative support. [[23.30]] This means that in the budget of HUF 25 billion, we could pay around three cultural employees' salaries and some electricity bills. But in this three-part district of such a large size, the 81 thousand people can fulfill the needs of complete cultural youth, old age and many of them with 38-40 full-time jobs and at least 10 social jobs or part-time jobs. I must add that the trade tax, which has already been mentioned, that we will be able to use it labeled, could put such a tradition-creating program in great danger, since we can organize and complement it with our own income. The district's annual cultural budget is 700 million. I would like to point out once again that 30 million is not the state aid that goes to culture. If I add that there is not a single penny norm for student sport and community sports or leisure sports, then we also need to hide it in the cultural section so that we can provide this service to the children. Dear fellow Members present, This program also includes parts where we invite renowned artists and ones that are of their own bearing. Parents bring their children for their own good, and it's got a real big audience on it. Inviting some famous artists will cost us money, of course, where we only collect admission tickets. You can say that as a free gift at the same time, in this period of 25 years, in the period before winter, before Christmas, advent, we organize this cultural program. Such is the tradition of an external district in Budapest. That's what I wanted to give you in the minutes. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-18-359	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Member István Apáti also applied for a post-the-meeting speech, an independent representative:, Respect to Miklós Horthy! It's an address. I give the floor to the congressman.
u2019-11-18-360	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, The Hungarian Movement is the only party that organized a memorial on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of Governor Miklós Horthy's entry into Budapest yesterday. We have managed to commemorate one of the outstanding figures of Hungarian history. During the event, we also had to notice that the governor's activities not only attracted our interest, but also the interest of a small group of extremist and extreme liberal protesters. They seemed to be excited by the event and the governor's activities, only from a very different perspective than us. This was then concluded by a press conference organised by a few left-wing politicians and spiced up by some irresponsible statements by the new mayor of Budapest, who is supposed to have historical knowledge at university level, so we should not assume schoollessness, ignorance, but rather deliberate misinformation and malice. I could also classify these extremist liberal protesters, who, of course, are not expected to be respected, we do not expect to be loved by the governor, we do not expect them to be adored for him, but we do expect them to show a minimum of respect for a statesman who died 62 years ago. I'm trying to show some pictures, some facts from the unique career of Miklós Horthy of Nagybánya. At the age of 14, he was admitted to the nautical academy in Fiume, and this is an exceptional result, since at this time only 7 percent of the applicants were found fit for the Academy, and he also met these strict criteria. He spoke very well in Italian, Croatian, English, German and French, and he was also an excellent sportsman, from cycling to tennis and fencing in several sports, abounding in sports and fighting to the title of military championship. At the age of forty-six, he was already a rowboat captain, which was the rank of colonel in the army. On May 15th, 1917, when they struck the Antente's ship, he suffered severe leg and head injuries, but after his wounds he carried himself up to the command bridge on the gurney and conducted the battle until he was unconscious. At the age of 50, he became the commander of the imperial and royal fleet, and at the earliest he recognized the fact that an organized force could only clean up, which is why he first organized the national army with Siófok headquarters. In order to save Budapest and save the country, on November 16, 1919, a hundred years ago, he accompanied 8,000 soldiers with machine guns and 19 camp guns to join the capital, where he made a speech that was certainly memorable forever. He took control of this country in one of the most difficult times in Hungarian history. Next came the trauma of Trianon, his governorship almost at the waist of a global economic crisis, and then World War II. We can't name another time of distress like this, and he stood in such circumstances and tried to create the best conditions for the Hungarians. He has implemented a land reform in which he has given land to two million Hungarians belonging to small and medium peasantry. By 1929, the budget surplus exceeded the budget surplus of the last year of peace by 10 percent. The structure of the economy has been transformed in such a way that, in an exceptional way, speculators, not the small man, not the lower and middle layers, have been burdened, but the speculators who have become rich in war shipments from the First World War. Contrary to all other celebrities, he did not hate me on either racial or ethnic grounds. In fact, he agreed to do certain things because he simply could not do anything else in the face of World War II's difficulties, but he never actually implemented exclusion laws. One of the most eloquent proofs of this is that on June 27, 1944, he marched out a regiment and a pawn regiment to prevent the Jews from being deported or dragged away from the capital. If Miklós Horthy had been a war criminal, if he had committed crimes against humanity, about which the extreme liberals had not been able to present a single order, order, order, or order to this day, he would certainly have been sentenced in the Nuremberg trial, probably executed or imprisoned for the rest of his life. He lived free, was released after a month or two, for they knew precisely that he had not been involved in any unsettling act. His grave was wreathed by various Jewish organizations in Estoril, Portugal, where he died for many years and decades. It is therefore time to have a substantive debate about this. Our Homeland Movement is ahead of this debate. Let us begin by naming a public area in as many places as possible, becoming a posthumous citizen of Budapest, the statue of Szent Gellért tér. We therefore rightly demand more respect for such an illustrious statesman. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-18-361	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I thank you for your work, the Parliament will resume its meeting at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed.
