u2019-06-18-0	Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The 2nd day of the extraordinary meeting of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Attila Gelencsér and György Szilágyi, notaries will be here to assist me. Welcome to our guests and everyone who's watching our work today. Speaking before the agenda: Mr Oláh, Member of the DK Group, asked to speak before the agenda with a title 'Change everywhere'. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-06-18-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Members, Dear Parliament, I've been hearing about what you've been doing to this town for years as a congressman of Elizabeth and Teresa. Instead of developing or catching up with European cities, we should be worried about taking away our garbage. Instead of seeing more and more green surfaces in the city so that such a hot summer can easily survive, you also cut down the few trees and place a square stone on the few green surfaces you have. You have never, for a moment, been interested in this city, only in your own interests. István Tarlós was put in the mayor's seat so that everything would happen exactly the way you want it to. New air-conditioned subway for Budapest? Come on. Instead, they're renovating 50-year-old subway cars with the Russians for their new price. More green? Come on. It's more like a stone, which is why you can get EU money. Transparent and decent parking system? No. It's more profitable to steal the parking money. [[Péter Cseresnyés: Gergely Christmas!]] Meanwhile, the billionaire Fidesz has all the property that can be stolen or purchased: castles, villas or future hotels of the Orbán family. We see how they took Budapest, how they put a puppet in the mayor's chair, who can be dragged by strings. So far, they have done this unpunishedly, but now the dice turn: Budapest has woken up and will cast István Tarlós out in the fall. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] DK has set up a candidate for the mayor of Budapest, who cannot by chance be confused with Tarlós, who is silently nodding. Remind yourselves how many times you've been prepared with a tight stomach to enter the Straight Speech to Olga Kálmán. Perhaps you should ask the Prime Minister exactly how many years he has been unable to gather the courage to go in and talk to Olga for ten minutes. I'm telling you this because you won't be able to run away from Kálmán Olga in the fall, who, hopefully, will be able to face you as the voice of the Budapesters for this city. The government's decision to Budapest will be over in the autumn. If the Budapesters decide to vote for Olga Kálmán in the primary election, we will be one step away from the fact that no matter how cowardly their prime minister is, it will be the duty of a dog to sit down and negotiate about Budapest. The people of Budapest will no longer be ignored. [[István Szilárd Németh: Who will it be? Christmas or Kálmán Olga?]] And the problems in Budapest will no longer be seen as air, which are largely caused by you. There will be no more dictatorships, orders, blackmail, what the capital can and cannot do. The people of Budapest will find their voice in the primary, and they will point to the two thirds of them who have been cheated, because then they will face the democratically elected mayor. [[Németh Szilárd István: Even Jobbik can interfere!]] The main reason why DK Kálmán recommends Olga to Budapest at the pre-election starting the day after tomorrow is not that he will be able to stand up for the city, the main reason is that DK wants a free, livable, green capital and most importantly a European capital as the most European party. It is time for Budapest to finally be what it should be, but you have been hindering it for nine years. Let us not only have the most beautiful capital, but also the most livable, let us know about the people who live here. Yes, the subway should be air-conditioned, because in a European country animals will not be allowed to travel at 40 degrees, like you do Hungarians on Metro 3. Yes, there should be electric buses in Budapest, so that when we talk about the use of BKV by as many people as possible, we do not have to choose between the smaller and the greater pollution. Yes, we deserve a city with parks, public drinking fountains and public toilets in the city. It is a city where it is not luxury to own a flat or rent in good condition. We deserve a capital city where we don't need the courage to ride our bike, where if we park our car, we don't have to worry about stealing our parking money. We in Budapest finally deserve a mayor who represents us and who runs this city in our best interests. I am convinced that if the people of Budapest so wish, this man will be called Olga Kálmán. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-18-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-06-18-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In short, as far as parking is concerned, it wasn't one of your Fidesz mayors, but one of your candidates who put together that feat that while he was collecting money for parking, it was a loss. So it wasn't this government that took the subway money, this government built the new subway, and this government, I add, renews the green surfaces, and you stick to the previous state, for example, in the case of the Liget project. Now you're saying that you may have given your speech the title that there will be change everywhere. But the thing is, I don't see any change on the left, they're fighting each other again for positions. It's the same record! Right now, the fight for the mayor's candidacy is the most spectacular, but if I understood their intentions correctly, I would extend this great fight to the whole country. Yesterday we asked ourselves: "Good, good, but why do we deal with this here in the governing parties, anyway, that is a legitimate question. We would like to take a position on this because our experience tells us that the way you are treating each other now, you would treat the capital in the same way, you would treat the municipalities in the same way, and you would treat the whole country in the same way. Look at what your party president has lied over the last few days about why he stabbed the unsuspecting Gergely Christmas in the back, who then says he has no choice but to trust Ferenc Gyurcsány to a hundred percent. Well, it can't be a pleasant situation either if someone has to trust Ferenc Gyurcsány 100 percent without a better opportunity, because it's the Autumn Lying Factory. So, the point is, even though the party logos are new, the characters are the same. If I look at this from the point of view of the municipalities, this means that those who took 800 billion forints from the municipalities will reclaim. This is why by 2010 the majority of the municipalities were going bankrupt. This has, among other things, had a very bad impact on the functioning of educational institutions, which is what the current government has had to correct. I just saw that they're campaigning on livelihoods, promising to make life a better place. But this is hard to accept from those who took a month's pension from 2.4 million pensioners with one pen stroke. In the last left-wing government cycle, the value of pensions did not increase at all, but decreased. You wanted to make health care pay, even campaigned for it. A month's wages were also taken from civil servants. The basic circumstance of all this was the skyrocketing unemployment: the percentage of unemployed people swelled to 12 percent. This has had its consequences in Budapest, which is what this government had to do below 4 percent. It is a typical number, and it affects all settlements that, in eight years, during your governance, real income has increased by 1 percent. The overhead has been increased to multiple times, with one of the highest in Europe. I'm not even talking about how a well-functioning family support system has been set up, despite all their vows. To say that you would improve the lives of Hungarians and Hungarian governments, the Hungarian cities, is hardly a serious claim, no matter how many times they say it. [[9.10]] Who is really behind the socially sensitive mask is well illustrated by the statement of their candidate in Budapest a few days ago. The former journalist in the primary debate simply said that it is not about how much we pay for the overhead. So it doesn't matter how much we pay for the rent, it's going to come out of the bag nicely. We understand those words well. If we complete their different tax-raise plans, it's clear that the austerity coalition is reunited. It is a coalition that always refers to its great heart, but is just completely insensitive to the lives of Hungarians. I'm sure the Hungarians don't want any of this, because they saw where it was going. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-06-18-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The social sector is on the verge of collapse for the speech before the agenda of the LMP Group, Mr Péter Ungár. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-06-18-5	Thank you for the floor. I would like to begin with a quote:. Please reconsider our amendments with sufficient empathy. Consider once again that every government budget failure today will come down here in the social sphere, and if this net is destroyed anyway, then what will happen to the slip-down masses? This was not said by György Soros, not by Ferenc Gyurcsány, but by the representative of Fidesz in 2006, when the majority of the government did not support its amendment to double the social pay table. Please think of the same Secretary of State Rétvári that your political community thought of ten years ago. We are currently negotiating with the social sector's representative. Nevertheless, we do not see what results are in particular. Before the Secretary of State reads the production report on 10-15% allowances, I would like to inform you a little bit about the wages in the Hungarian reality beyond propaganda, in the existing Hungarian social sector. Let us start by saying that less than 15 percent of the 200 000 net is passed on to those working in the social sector, and they are either if they have two or three children or if they have at least 30 years of working time. But I would also like to give examples from the real world. He earns 171 thousand forints in a county-righted city today, this is based on a real payment paper, a graduate nurse after 32 years of employment. A graduate nurse can earn 210,000 forints a month with 38 years of work overtime. After 9 years of employment, a middle-aged nurse earns HUF 189 899. After 9 years of experience in social worker's degree plus professional training, he earns HUF 181 thousand net in Hungary today. A nurse after 28 years of working hours earns HUF 195 thousand net; a social worker college with plus exams, after night and holiday work, after 14 years of employment, earns HUF 198 thousand net. Here is a payment form for an existing social worker outside the Universe of the Hungarian Nemzet and Echo TV, he earns 187 thousand forints with a professional degree, but only because he earns so much because he earns extra hours because he works on holidays and weekends. My learned colleague calculated how much he would make if he didn't have the allowances. That would be 158 thousand forints net. The fact is, according to the data of the Central Statistical Office, this is March 2019, so hopefully Mr. State Secretary will not have a problem with this, unless this has already become the Central Soros Office and they are lying too. At present, the working salary of social services workers is an average net of 170 thousand forints. Even in health care, the average wage of employees is HUF 340 thousand. That's not much, but it's a lot more than what's in social services. The thing is, you've just raised sectoral allowances, and they're all messed up. It's causing serious wage tension. Some people have 18 years of working time more than others who have 22 years of working time because this is raised separately in each budget. Moreover, since there is such a difference between healthcare and the social sector, the social sector has an impact on the health sector, and it is increasingly difficult to find workers in the homes of older people, in the day-to-day homes of mentally disabled people or in other social institutions. There is a shortage of workers in Western Hungary, and that is because if a social worker goes to Austria 30 kilometers away to work as a social worker, he earns more than the head of the institution in Western Hungary who led his institution. This is the situation in Hungary today. I ask you not to answer me when the Secretary of State answers, not to say the usual fidesz panels, but to tell these people whose real salary I have told you about when the Hungarian government will appreciate them. They're doing a very, very important job, maybe one of the most important jobs in the public sector, and they don't earn much more than the guaranteed minimum wage. So tell us what specific increases will be, and how will these increases, for example, make the wages of a Hungarian citizen of the quality he deserves, whose payment paper I showed you. These people aren't party politics, they're about honoring this sector, this sector, which you didn't properly estimate in the former government or the first Orbán government. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-18-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-06-18-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As opposed to you, I would like to thank these people for their work, which they do every day. You know, such speeches, that tomorrow the social system, the Hungarian economy and the others will collapse, and the rest, we have heard this from many people here in Parliament nine years ago. Several years have passed, and we have now been able to provide additional resources for all sectors, including the social sector. Over the last two years, the average wage has increased by HUF 50,000 in the social sphere, thanks to the additional resources we have brought here, and fortunately, it has not happened that you and your colleagues are always alarming here every six months, standing up and telling the same mantra you said. Honourable Congressman, It is strange in the social sphere to hear speeches about the low quality of benefits and wages from political factions and political parties who here in Parliament at the end of last year, when they could have voted for a radical increase in care fees not as a salad law, but as a clear bill, they would rather honk, whistle, and the others, besides you, even self-flyed, because it was more important for them to create a scandal, it was more important for them to have a good picture of the Internet than, say, raise the care fee to 100 thousand forints this year, and then raise it to the minimum wage level by 2022, or a 30 percent increase, not in the weeds, but a 30 percent increase for those in the construction in the previous care fee. When there was an opportunity to raise awards and benefits in the social sphere, you would rather whistle and make a scandal, and you would do anything to enter the media by making noise and not take that step, literally physically, to step up to your ballot box and press the yes button. It is also a little strange that those who are trying to strengthen their political relationship with the political forces that have reduced wages in the social sphere demand even more social wage increases. Those who took one month's wages from all social workers in 2008-2009 now have the most important political objective of almost legally but politically united with them. You are saying, therefore, that there should be an even higher social wage increase and that you will enter into a political alliance with the person who reduced social wages only after the change of regime. At first, it would seem like a body alien thing, but it seems to you that you can do the same thing at the same time and the same thing at the same time. [[9.20]] If you look at how the wages of professional workers have changed and how their number has changed, you can also see an increase there, as the number of professional workers has increased from 67 thousand to 80 thousand, and the average income, honourable Member, in the rise in average income, which you referred to, of course, and let us say that this is part of the rise is that the government has increased the minimum wage for people with qualifications to the most radical extent since the regime change. This is also part of this, of course, but overall, the social sector has increased by 72 percent, together with the increase in income, the minimum wage, the minimum wage and the allowances which you have always criticised, honourable Member. But these allowances are better than what you're suggesting are included in the basic wage, because those who are looking for exactly the exact limit of the radically increased minimum wage for skilled workers are still on the payroll and the wage supplement, and do not absorb these basic wages. In 2014, 90,000 employees were paid an extra fee of HUF 12 billion in proportion to their basic salary, and the following year, because it was a full year, we added HUF 16 billion to the employees of the profession. In 2017 and 18 additional increases were made for HUF 9 billion. For young children, we provided HUF 1.5 billion in the form of a nursery allowance and HUF 7.5 billion for those with a higher education degree. Here we were able to offer an average gross increase of HUF 35,000 for 14,000. The problem that you said, Mr President, is not real, is that the wages for those with a health education and a job in health care would be different from those who work in the healthcare system. Here we can talk about 3300 employees, and from a surplus of HUF 2.1 billion, we have completed their salary to the health level since 2018. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Anyone in the social sphere, honourable Member, who made 108 thousand forints after a long career as a child supervisor with skills, now earns 224 thousand forints, who in 2012 earned 122 thousand forints as a family care provider with a college degree, now earns 240 thousand forints. Progress can be felt, but we will, of course, be working towards further growth. We regret that you have never supported these increases. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-18-8	Thank you very much. I would ask the Secretary of State to pay particular attention at other times to complying with his time frame. Thank you very much. Mr László Varga, from the MSZP Group, asked for a speech before the agenda entitled "For the benefit of workers." Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-06-18-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, It is not the first time that I have drawn attention to the intolerable situation here in Parliament, as one of the government's strategic partners, Suzuki, treats the masses of Hungarian workers here in Hungary, as it tramples on workers' and trade union rights. We saw a few weeks ago that Péter Szijjártó was not so disturbed by this, as he praised this particular company, your strategic partner, their engagement in Hungary at a Japanese investor lunch. We've heard of many of these scandalous cases in the past period, which are related to this company, we've heard that they fired an employee who would have organised a trade union in the company, according to press reports. It wasn't that long ago, a few weeks ago, they wouldn't let a union delegation in to meet their members at the company. For the record, both of these fundamental workers' rights are violated and outrageous, and yet you have not done anything about any of these matters. However, another shocking case occurred in Esztergom at the Suzuki factory. On the basis of a communication from an automotive trade union in the Vasas Trade Union Association, the news was published on an Internet portal just two days ago, which is quite shocking for all Hungarian workers. At midnight on Wednesday, the national chief of staff ordered a third-degree heat alarm, and apparently every company has obligations in connection with the enormous heat. Despite the enormous heat, this company, according to the Trade Union Association, has ignored the regulation on the temperature of the workplace, which states that the temperature of the rooms that host the work areas should be suitable for the human body throughout the working period, taking into account the nature of the work and the physical burden on the workers working there. The OSH Act also requires that rest periods of at least 5 minutes per hour, but not more than 10 minutes per hour, be interrupted if the indoor temperature in the workplace exceeds 24 degrees. In workplaces with a heat effect of more than 24 degrees, it is necessary to ensure that workers gradually become accustomed to heat, above 24 degrees according to the needs of workers, but at least every half hour a protective drink of 14 to 16 degrees of water or other non-alcoholic beverages must be provided. Compared to this, according to the union, there were jobs in the factory that exceeded the temperature of 33 degrees. Compliance with the obligations in this regard, I think, is not a question of money, but rather of attention, of humanity; this is what the union's announcement says. The water they provided had a bad taste, the required heat breaks could not be observed; at least they could have delivered the right quality water in bottles to workers on such a shocking day when it was so hot. It is obviously unacceptable and shocking that the requirements for temperature and OSH measures have not been complied with, nor have they been heard of, nor have they been ashed. So another shocking, scandalous event occurred. When such an article appears, it appeared two days ago, the question is where the government is. Where is Mihály Varga, where is Peter Szijjártó? This article was published two days ago, no one denied it, no one acted on the specific case, and you remain silent. However, this is not a coincidence, since you have embedded the exploitation of multinationals in Hungary by narrowing down the right to strike, practically abolishing it, transforming the labour code to the detriment of workers and adopting the slave law. You prepared the ground, and you put it on a billboard that if you come to Hungary, you must respect our laws. These multinationals do not even respect these reduced laws, which have been changed to the detriment of workers. Before 2010, it took established labour relations to obtain state aid from any company. I would be very curious about these relations, although we can see from the press about Suzuki, and in this connection I have also asked a written question about what state aid this company has received from you recently. That's enough! At last, answer these questions, stand on the workers' side, stand with the workers in their fight against the exploiters. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2019-06-18-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the government, the answer will be given by Secretary of State Sándor Bodó. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-06-18-11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Mr President, once again in his speech he drew a parallel between the amendment of the Labour Code in 2018 and the spring events at Suzuki's Esztergom factory. In this connection, I can tell you that the Suzuki was... [[Noise in the lines of MSZP and LMP.]] Are you interested in the answer, Congressman? Suzuki was the first company that did not want to take advantage of the possibility of increasing extraordinary working hours, and first said so. So the mood you've started on this subject is increasing now. And to say in concrete terms that water does not taste good, it is difficult to say here in the parliamentary relations system. [[István Szilárd Németh: The grapes are also sour!]] The development and elimination of trade unions is, by the way, an ongoing dynamic event, obviously you know that. At any given moment, the company's employees feel the urge to form a union. [[Deficit in the lines of LMP and MSZP.]] And sometimes, if, let's say, the goal they have been fighting for is met, and if it ceases to exist or does not exist, the passivity of trade union members may also be present. [[9.30]] Thus, the development or functioning of trade unions is clearly an internal matter of a company and an internal matter of its employees. Obviously, in our country, laws shape the environment that ensures that it works. In Hungary, therefore, the rules provide an absolute opportunity for workers to form a trade union in a natural way, this has a procedural order, and the Fundamental Law itself declares the functioning of trade unions and other interest organisations. In line with this, the Labour Code regulates guarantees of the right to organise within labour law. Employees are therefore entitled to form trade unions with the employer, so workers and employers have the right to use this option. The Labour Code clearly states that it is prohibited to terminate the employment of a worker because of membership of a trade union or some form of position in it. If this can happen, then there is a legal guarantee with which the victim of the injury or alleged injury may experience, and in this case he must obviously take this path. Honourable Congressman, In order to maintain working peace, the law therefore regulates the functioning of the trade union, the operation of the Works Council and the system of contacts. Obviously, the government cannot intervene or interfere with the system of these processes through specific measures. As the government is responsible for ensuring the legal guarantees that workers have the right to form a trade union in order to promote their interests and to freely enter the trade union they choose. In the event of any violation of rights, the legislation also includes the remedies that can be used. A few more thoughts about the strategic partnership you mentioned. The essence of the strategic partnership is that the agreements are, in fact, declarations of intent, which do not constitute a specific commitment from either party, so the agreements do not contain any clause which would confer any economic or other advantage on the large company that has signed the agreement. These companies are also subject to the same labour law rules as all other companies. In this strategic partnership, there is no doubt that Magyar Suzuki is included. The company's operation also contributes to increasing employment, increasing the economy, which is also a matter of fact. With regard to the heat alarm, it is true that the weather of the last few days causes unpleasant moments, hours, days at every workplace. Obviously, it's an increased test of strength for indoor workers. Extreme weather conditions occur year after year, and the competent bodies must also draw the attention of employers and workers. The report from Magyar Suzuki to the Ministry of Finance's OSH Department on 14 June clearly contains these complaints, they have been forwarded to the competent OSH authority for measures and the investigation is still ongoing. I hope that it will have a satisfactory result and, more importantly, it will provide information on full compliance with the OSH rules. If not, it shall include the necessary measures. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-18-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Tamás Mellar, from the Group on Dialogue, spoke before the agenda, with the title on current affairs. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-06-18-13	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Friends! Last week and yesterday, we were lucky enough to get through the general and committee debate on the draft law aimed at taking away the research institutes of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. [[Interjection: There was a detailed debate.]] a detailed discussion. A lot of thanks weren't included. Last week, according to old habits, the general debate started in the evening in order to reach into the night. Minister Palkovic has answered the questions raised for a very long time, but I would rather say that he spoke very long, because he did not actually answer those questions. For example, we did not get answers to such an important question as why the Ministry did not outline the operational model of the planned Eötvös Loránd Research Network and why it did not carry out the impact studies to determine why the new system would work more effectively than the current system. We also did not get an answer to the question of how putting research institutions under the Ministry would increase innovation and competitiveness, even though this would have been a Nobel Prize-winning issue, a Nobel Prize for Economics would be awarded if someone could answer this question with satisfaction, because there really was no causal link between the two things. We also did not get an answer as to why the government and the Ministry were opposed to the academic decision where the academic assembly, by more than 90 percent, expressed its acceptance of the principles for the operation of the research institute. The Minister cynically replied that this was just an opinion. Well, that reminds me of the anecdote you probably know when a motorist is on the highway listening to the radio. On the radio, they say, "I'm watching, I'm watching, I'm watching, I'm watching, I'm being watched, I'm getting a madman on the freeway. And then our guy thinks, asks, "One"? Well, they'll all come to you. The ministry and the academic minister are in a situation like this, and they don't realize the direction they're driving on the highway. And of course, we did not get an answer as to why this whole transformation was not unconstitutional, considering that the assets of the MTA were not state property, not public property, but the property of the MTA, because in 1949 this property was taken away by the Communists, and after the change of regime, in 1994, under Kosáry Domokos's presidency, it was given back to the Academy under the Act of Compensation, so it is not the property of the Academy, but the property of the Academy, so it cannot be taken away. The line could, of course, be continued. Yesterday, the Committee on Culture also discussed this matter and the amendments were also discussed. I was very prepared for this debate yesterday, and I thought that there would finally be substantive professional debates, because this is all being discussed in a very small community that has the best understanding of the subject. There was no need for me to prepare, however, because there was no debate. The pro-government committee members did not say a word, they did not say a single sentence about what we raised there, they listened, they listened, they voted and they voted. All opposition amendments were voted out without justification. They could have, because they had a convincing majority. Well, that is the case of democracy in Hungary today. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, according to history's lesson, the power that does not take into account minority ideas that are insensitive to minority opinions tends to end badly. God forbid I shouldn't be right. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-06-18-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés responds to the speaker's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-06-18-15	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, I do not know how many times we have talked about the MTA over the past period, and you have started by saying that you have not been answered a lot of things, your questions, your suggestions or the opposition side have not been answered by other Members. I'll disprove that. Mr President, you have received answers on a number of occasions in general, and you have also received answers to specific questions. For example, the last time the debate took place on the transformation of MTA research institutions, Minister, I do not remember exactly how many minutes he answered the questions or problems he had raised, but he answered around 40 minutes in which he also answered the questions that you raised here, but you did not listen, Congressman, for example, because he was not likely to listen because he felt bad in his skin when the Minister disproved your statements on many occasions. [[Bence of Turdai: He didn't deny it! He denied it!]] I'm not saying he accused you of lying, but it's a slip, directly or indirectly. [[9.40]] In fact, if I remember correctly, he even told you with a sentence or a thought story about the University of Pécs that if you want what happened in Pécs, there is a very big problem. We want what I have repeatedly stressed, and the Minister has repeatedly said in Parliament that research should be more effective, that innovation can serve society better and that it can serve the Hungarian economy better in the next time. That is why this law is in front of us and this law is being negotiated by Parliament. I would like to say a few thoughts now, repeating myself a little bit, to accept the intention of this transformation. So, on the one hand, we want more research and the results of research to be more useful in the Hungarian economy. You must also acknowledge, on the basis of the statistics of the past period, that this is not happening in Hungary at the moment as expected, and it can even be said that we have significantly stepped back in the past period in relation to the Member States of the European Union, for example, in relation to innovation and research and development. We want the billions invested in science and scientific research to be more useful. Among other things, this is demonstrated by the fact that we will spend significantly more money on innovation and research in relation to the transformation. For the past more than a decade, when the next budget is adopted, and therefore the 2020 budget is adopted, it is the first time that Parliament will vote significantly more money for R &amp; D and innovation if it does so than has been available so far. This means that you will receive 32 billion HUF more for R &amp; D and innovation activities. This is precisely because the Hungarian research, development and innovation is lagging behind, as I said, and we want to turn this around and make research networks and research institutes more interested. The question of wealth is, you can't nationalize what belongs to the state. So far, the state has financed the operation of research institutes with public funds. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] I would like to say that this will continue, of course, with the knowledge that these research institutes were returned to MTA in 2006, and now the state, the government, wants them to continue to be used and used for the purpose that led them to the MTA, to use these institutions for research and development; these institutions should carry out research, basic research and applied research in order to make better use of the tax forints for the Hungarian economy and Hungarian society in the next period. That is why I ask you to support this law, to accept it, because it is in our common interest that all innovations [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The Hungarian state should move forward in the field of research and development, and the Hungarian society should make better use of the knowledge bases that are available. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-18-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Varga-Damm Andrea from the Jobbik Group, entitled "30 years in the shadow of the so-called "Share of the Change of System," applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-06-18-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On Sunday, 30 years ago, Imre Nagy and his martyrs were buried again, and it is worth stopping for a moment, and this 30 years is a little bit, although it is difficult in five minutes, but it is somehow appreciated. Amazing symbol: On June 16, 1989, at the funeral of Imre Nagy and his fellow martyrs, an enthusiastic young man speaks, his picture appears before us, and on June 16, 2019, an aging, empty-eyed man with his partner places a flower on a neglected, dirty grave. The pictures of a very glorious funeral in front of the country-world thirty years ago, and the dirty, neglected tombs were secretly placed with a single flower. [[Interviews from Fidesz: Secretly?]] What has become of the strongest symbol today, the enthusiasm of thirty years ago? What did Viktor Orbán say on June 16, 1989? Our goals have not changed until today, we do not allow from 48, so we do not allow from 56 either. And what happened today? The Institute of 56 is subject to the same man as an institution that calls itself truth, which is in fact a forgery of history. Then he also said: "We respect the statesmen who were able to bring down the unconditional service of the Russian Empire and the dictatorship of the party. And what have we come to today? The same man, and even the KGB, who destroyed the lives of millions of people, has corrupted our country into Russia's pinch dog and has created a headquarters hidden behind the cover of a bank. [[Interventions from the ranks of the governing parties, including Lőrinc Nacsa: KáGéBéla! Dr. Bence Rétvári: KáGéBéla familiar? The president's ringing the bell.]] Despite the wishes and warnings of our allies. In fact, in 1956 Viktor Orbán said that the Hungarian Socialist Workers' Party had taken our future away from us from young people today. Therefore, in the sixth coffin not only a young man murdered, but also our next twenty or who knows how many years we have been there, said Viktor Orbán. That's right. In that coffin, who knows how many ten years we have, Viktor Orbán will ensure that that coffin is still the existential coffin of millions of our countrymen. We also do not understand that the party and state leaders who ordered us to be taught from the textbooks that forge the revolution are trying to reach out today to touch these coffins as a lucky talisman. And today, if we count, what do we see? Most of the comrades prior to the regime change, who maintain the system, enjoy the joys of life on his bosom, in jobs paid from various public funds. If we do not lose sight of the ideas of 56, we can choose a government that immediately negotiates the words that could be regarded as revolutionary. We thought that his words were of weight, since the information was still as misleading as it is today. In fact, as we learned long later, in April 88, Moscow committed to withdraw all its soldiers from Afghanistan in a few months, and in December 88, at the UN General Assembly in New York, Gorbachev undertook to reduce the Soviet forces stationed in Europe of the Soviet Union by about half a million; he withdraws his soldiers from the territory of the GDR, Czechoslovakia and Hungary. On the 25th of April, two months before the speech, the first Soviet unit, the 13th tank-guard division of Kiskunhalas, the Sárbugárd, 600 people and half a hundred T-64 cars started their journey. So what can we say? There was no big risk in that speech then. What the man, who had become empty-eyed, drunken with power, cried out boldly at that time was already a lie. And what can we say after thirty years? We can say that today, by means of his stooge, the then beautiful man became a multibillionaire out of public money, formalized the democratic institutional system, transformed the electoral system according to his own interests, the public administration's personal aspect was absolute loyalty to Fidesz, the public debt was never seen, three million people live in extreme poverty, 40 percent of young people imagine their lives abroad, these last thirty years, these thirty years that lied down, the perfect symbol of which was a flower placed on a dirty, neglected grave. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Zsolt Gréczy applauds.]]
u2019-06-18-18	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, replied to the speaker's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-06-18-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Allow me to thank you for your rather modest speech regarding yesterday's clowning, which is... [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] Allow me to say that I have listened to you, too, this is a question of upbringing for me, and I hope that it is also for you. As far as Russia is concerned, I'm staying away from peeping on anyone, but it wasn't you who sent a representative to Brussels who was spying on Russia, and after it turned out, [[János Bencsik, Jobbik, showing five with his hand: You haven't been able to prove it in five years!]] Did they leave him in his position? [[9.50]] And they failed to inform the public of exactly why this happened. [[To János Bencsik Jobbik:]] You show me five years, yeah, and they leave it in its place, that's right. But to touch on the subject, for us, 16 June is a celebration of free Hungary and national self-determination, but we also think [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea keeps interrupting.]] that, in addition to all the virtues of the change of regime, he left behind a number of debts. You yourself referred to existential issues, so allow me to do so, because the most important of such disorderly debt for a very long time was the question of work. In a few years, one and a half million Hungarians lost their jobs, and unfortunately, until 2010, there was a thin chance of getting these jobs back fully. In 2010, this government undertook to create a million new jobs in Hungary in 10 years, and in 2019 we have more than 800 thousand new jobs. But we also think that, by the way, we thought that the change of regime could not be complete without laying the new foundations. You can also remember, honourable Member, that in 1989 there was a constitution intended to be temporary, but which remained in force for decades, which is why one of the most important tasks was to adopt a new Fundamental Law, with the authority given by the Hungarian people. It's a national, Christian-based, proud Fundamental Law. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] And one of the most important innovations of this is that I bring this here because you also mentioned the question of livelihoods, by putting in a debt brake for the governments at hand. [[Interviews from the benches of Jobbik, including Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Hungarian soil... The president is ringing.]] This is also important because in 1990 the first freely elected parliament left behind a huge sovereign debt. [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] In addition, we also managed to increase the state's wealth. One of the main crimes of the decade following the change of regime is that they have also privateised strategic sectors for smoking, without which Hungarian self-determination cannot be complete. They sold most of our power plants, sold residential utility companies, most of the media, banks and retail chains. [[Zsolt Gréczy:...houses, mines...]] , mostly for foreigners and mostly below the price, but some companies have also received the Gyurcsány-Apró clan. In comparison, honourable Member, the Hungarian state has increased its assets by 70 percent by 2010-2017. And if you're going to make a living, let me mention another debt to the regime change. Unfortunately, the permanent restrictions survived socialism and were the main political instruments of the MSZP-SZDSZ governments. In practice, this meant keeping wages low and hurting families. Compared to this, since 2010, the word "supplier" has faded out of the dictionary, while net average income has increased by 77 percent, while the home creation and family support program is expanding. Of course, honourable Member, we do not think that enough is needed where we are, further steps and further work are needed. In this work, honourable Member, you too can help [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] but they don't, but instead they join forces with the successor party, join forces with Ferenc Gyurcsány, and of course the current SZDSZ [[Interviews from Jobbik benches, including Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Nana! The president's ringing the bell.]] With a multi-point zero version. That's what you do. They've done all this, and they're doing it for a few nominations, or I might as well say, for a number of sidecars in a junk derby. This shows the state of Jobbik, by the way. And I would like to point out one more thing: you were trying to make jokes here on KDNP yesterday. I would just like to say, let me tell you that, for example, Mr Rétvári, a representative of the KDNP, received eight times as much support in his constituencies last year as you did on 26 May. Eight times that much! [[Moors and interruptions from Jobbik's benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] So, honourable Member, the people have decided on the political pirouettes of Jobbik SZDSZ. They said what they thought about Jobbik's association with the socialists who, if they could, would have prevented the change of regime. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So, from a beautiful national party to a number of socialist sidecars, it's not a nice story. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-18-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr András Aradszki, Member of the KDNP Group, entitled Defence Developments for Hungary's Security, has applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-06-18-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, When we talk about the role of the Hungarian Defence Forces, it is worth going back to the last 20, but perhaps 30 years ago, to what kind of protection Hungary had before, say, the regime change. It was obvious that during this period the Hungarian People's Army, because at that time its name, reputation, perception was quite negative in public opinion, in public speaking, in the field of civilian life. The fundamental reason for this was that there was little money for defence, and that little money was used aimlessly and unorganized. Too long and untargeted mandatory military service was also synonymous with disorganization. After the change of regime, this situation changed somewhat with the formation of the Hungarian Defence Forces. It has changed, but it may not be in the right direction, because many times political governance has failed, or the more dilettant version of it has been implemented. A substantial change in the situation has occurred with NATO accession, when, through external relations factors, the fulfilment of national obligations has become accountable within the federal system and sufficient resources have been involved in this system, but at the same time in the Gyurcsány period, the reduction of resources in the field of defence has been characteristic. [[Gergely Arató: Hospital and school were more important...Bence Rétvári: Hospital and school were closed, these two... István Németh Szilárd: Honvéd Hospital in Kecskemét...]] Today, new factors in geopolitical and European political situations, migration and the war situation close to us have highlighted the need to develop technical and human resources for defence. Of course, it was also necessary for NATO leadership, in the correct way, to stand on its heels in the United States of leadership and to say that all NATO Member States must fulfil their obligation to devote 2% of GDP to defence and military development. I must add that Hungary has already made much progress in this regard, because it decided already in 2016 that it will achieve this goal by increasing the share of GDP by 0.1 per cent in the budget of the coming years, in order to use 2% of GDP for defence purposes. This direction is also set out in the budget law that is before us today and that is to be discussed in the coming days. As a result, the Hungarian Defence Office can manage from around 600 billion forints, which will also be able to develop forces. But I must also add that the social foundation of this has been achieved. It happened in such a way that, through the national consultation and the referendum, the Hungarian people expressed and expressed their strong commitment to see it as necessary and also made clear that it is an unavoidable thing for security, the most important political element of the Hungarian public. Security, which protects the territory of our country, protects the composition of our country's population; security that protects the lives and belongings of our citizens. The necessary development money will be available. Over the past decades, the remuneration for the human resources, i.e. human resources, of the Defence Forces, has increased significantly by 50 percent and has been mentioned. With a budget of more than 600 billion forints, it will also receive significant development of forces, the development of the air force, artillery and the military. Why do we have to deal with this and what is the relationship between this Christian Democrat? [[10.00]] Surely, where we were born, it is also part of God's plan. The two main basic communities are home and family. A good-natured man doesn't deny or betray these two. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] This is why we need strong and effective defence. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-18-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Szilárd Németh replied to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-06-18-23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, Yesterday, during the interpellations, we were able to account for the amount, the record amount, the record budget amount of Hungary's Government's support, and, if possible, after tomorrow's debate, the Hungarian Parliament's support for the Hungarian defence for the security of the Hungarian people. We set out three important directions yesterday, on which we can translate the 616 billion on a pro rata basis, because this is not the beginning or the end of something, but we are on the road, because the Programme for Defence and Defence of Zrínyi 2026, which began years ago, three years ago, and we are going on this road until 2026, because our goal is to create the most powerful and modern army in the region, and it is called the Hungarian Defence Office, as Mr. Mr President, Mr President, you mentioned that one of the most important tasks, although you did not say it, is border protection and not only to protect Hungary's borders, but also to protect the borders of all Europe by virtue of our Schengen obligations. Hungary has a very serious Schengen border area, and at that time, when we asked people to give their opinion on allowing the population movement that many people would like to organise and bring to Europe from the great pressure of waiting, people decided that this would not be good, that we should stop, that we should protect Hungary, that we should protect our country and that we should protect the Christian culture in Europe. The Hungarian Defence Forces fulfil this task, since the Hungarian Defence Forces have the most eminent task in the country's life. We're thinking of doing this in a federal system. It is not for nothing that people decided 20 years ago in a referendum to be a member of NATO, one of the most successful and largest military alliances. Of course, as Congressman pointed out, between 2002 and 2010, not only did they kill the defence capabilities in their entirety, but they did so with reference to NATO, saying that if anything else happens, there will be some security problem here, NATO will solve this, because we are its members. In contrast, we say that we need to develop our own defences, because that's what NATO requires. The NATO Alliance Treaty is precisely about putting the national army in a position where it is necessary to be able, together with NATO forces, to carry out defence tasks, whether in Europe or outside Europe, which will serve European security and competitiveness, to maintain European social and economic well-being. I would like to quote you from a report: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. At present, in Europe, it is a huge challenge to preserve peace in the Western Balkans and the potential for a migration crisis from the south. The Hungarian operational contribution confirms with concrete steps the foreign policy objective of our country to deal with crises where they arise. In accordance with this approach, at the moment there are 15 different operations and missions in which 841 members of the Hungarian Army are serving abroad; or further cooperation, NATO cooperation, the creation of the so-called multi-national divisional command. In order to continue the Hungarian special operational capability development, we will establish a regional special operational component command, which will be framed by our country and supplemented by partners in the region, such as Croatia, Slovakia, Slovenia and Austria. You can see that this will strengthen our country's NATO and regional position, as well as its ability to assert its interests, with another NATO organisational element. To sum up, it can be concluded that Article 21 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 provides that the provisions of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council are to be incorporated into the EEA Agreement. The Hungarian Defence Office is not only an active contributor to stability operations in the changing security policy environment of the century, but also acquires increasing military capabilities. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This 2020 security budget, which contains HUF 103 billion more than this year's [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] a total of 616 billion, the best message for the Hungarian soldiers on this trip. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-18-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Attila Tilki, from the Fidesz Group, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-06-18-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, My brothers and sisters, he has a Swimming Valley, and there will be, there are not two peoples against each other here. God forbid, reckless or ill-meaning action was overtaken by a group that could do anything. They whipped up your anger, that's what happened there. It hurts what happened, but we can't let our emotions get out of control, we can't generalize like everyone else is. With God's help, the matter will be resolved in some way, but we must preserve our human and Christian dignity and, as Széchenyi said, if they throw stones at us, we will build stairs from stones. . said József Csaba Pál, the bishop of Timisoara, in the Homilia of Rizsomlyo. As the father said, the opposition is not true for everyone, it is an eloquent proof that before the statue of Mátyás Cornel Vilcu, a professor from Cluj-Napoca, Hungarians and Romanians jointly organized a protest against the Romanian chauvinist attack on the Russian military cemetery. But what the Romanian minority in Hungary also issued, their parliamentary spokesperson wrote:. We strongly condemn the desecration of the memory of the heroic dead of the cemetery, representing the Romanian ethnicity in Hungary. We condemn all forms of hatred, violence, and extremism, and we are in solidarity with the victims of violence. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. However, we need to talk not only about reconciliation, but also about the continuing provocation, because we all saw what was said at the Romanian-Norway game in Oslo, where it is out with the Hungarians! It was chanted by extremist Romanian fans, referring, of course, to the events in Luzvölgy. Or last Saturday, the footage was released, where if we arrive in Kovasna county from Bákó County, the inscription on the Kovasna board, the Hungarian inscription, the Hungarian inscription, was painted with national colours by extremist Romanians. Or we cannot otherwise understand the political statement made by certain Constantin Codreanu, the MP of the People's Movement Party, who asks for the following, would like to establish an Orthodox chapel in the Uzvölgy. The Orthodox Church is already interesting in itself, especially with regard to the Orthodox Bishops of Kovasna and Harghita County and the Romanian Office for the Crying of War, asking for support for the establishment of an Orthodox Chapel. This is what he writes in his statement:, and the building of the chapel is necessary in order to commemorate the Romanian heroes who have fallen here in a worthy manner. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Today there are journalists, such as Sabina Fati, who is a Romanian journalist, who wrote an article, and I would like to quote this article:. Neither the President of the State nor the Prime Minister nor anyone from the top of the Romanian state leadership wanted to intervene in the cross conflict between Romanians and Hungarians. Even the leaders of the opposition didn't comment, afraid they wouldn't lose their polling bases. This was written before the elections to the European Parliament. In the article he will continue: with the financial support of the Ministry of Defence, several concrete crosses have been set up in the Harghita County Uzvölgy, which has been cared for by Hungarians since 17th, mostly Hungarian military cemeteries, lists nationalities, and then mentions that some Romanian soldiers have been buried here as well. [[10.10]] During the incident, the Orthodox Pope listed 149 names. 52 crosses have been created. According to the current Romanian official position, only 11 soldiers can be buried there, but this can't be verified either, the numbers we haven't yet accepted may be buried there. Then why did they build 52 concrete crosses, and why did they build an orthodox big cross in front of the graves of the Hungarians, in front of the tombs of the 10th Honvéd Regiment? It continues by punishing the Vice President of Covasna County, punishing the Harghita County President. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I would like to recommend the quote of Ferenc Kölcsey to our own attention as a last resort:. Each nation, which destroys or destroys its past memory, kills its own national life. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-06-18-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Menczer, State Secretary, responds to the speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-06-18-27	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I am pleased that we can talk again and again on this subject, this time before the agenda. I believe that the importance of the subject justifies talking about it from time to time here in the Hungarian Parliament. You're right, and I think I need a hot heart and a cold head when we're talking about the events in Luzvölgy and when we're looking for a solution. Indeed, I myself believe that it is not possible to identify with the entire Romanian nation the criminals who did what we saw in the footage, ransacked and attacked the Hungarians at the Russian military cemetery. Moreover, today there will be a vote of mistrust against the government in Romania, which complicates the situation which is not easy anyway. On our position, Mr House, honourable Member, we support the position of the RMDSZ. So we look forward to and demand the restoration of the original state of the graveyard, the start of real dialogue, and we do not support the handling of the Russian Ministry of Defence by the Russian military cemetery. We've seen the facts, the facts are known. Hungarian people were attacked, graves were violated, many were injured. Our colleagues there also met several injured Hungarians, so any kind of rebuttal, which denies personal injuries, and says that no matter how high a Romanian level it comes, that there has been no personal injury and that the official bodies have done well here, it is not true. Hungarians were injured. Otherwise, it is only thanks to the Hungarian community and Hungarian politicians on the ground that the conflict at the military cemetery, which has already been extremely serious, has continued to be seen in the recordings to this day. Unfortunately, the subsequent events are also unacceptable. The vice-president of the Kovasna county municipality, Róbert Grüman and the president of the Harghita county municipality, Csaba Borboly, were punished by the Romanian authorities for what happened there, i.e. because they brought peaceful, praying people who made a living chain. They're being punished, not the real culprits. Punishing peaceful people instead of real, aggressive sinners is an extremely dangerous and extremely wrong direction. Dear House, What we might be happy about, though quite carefully, is that at the end of this month, in the last days of June, there will be a meeting and meeting of Romanian and Hungarian experts in charge of the war tombs in Bucharest. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence have asked the Romanian party to do so several times. This is now possible, but we can only trust that this is not a time-consuming and not an alibi meeting, but that there really is reason on the table, and that the professionals can really move this situation towards the solution. However, it is also important to state what you referred to, and I referred to it when I began my speech that we were interested in good relations with Romania. I know this is difficult to accept after what we have seen, but we are interested in Central European cooperation and in the peaceful coexistence of Romanians and Hungarians. We need to go to the point where we can resolve this case with Hungarian interests in mind. If the Romanians, as you mentioned, say that there are 11 Romanian soldiers buried there, we do not know when they were buried, we do not have such paper, but if there is, we also support the position of DAHR. There is an empty area in front of the cemetery, next to the cemetery, where they can set up their memorial place, they can also commemorate peacefully, just leave this right to the Hungarians as well. Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, After all, I would also like to say that it is also gratifying that several of the parties, including the opposition benches, supported the Hungarians from abroad and supported the government in this situation. Of course, we are not surprised that the opposition's new leadership, the Democratic Coalition, Ferenc Gyurcsány's party, did not say a word when the Hungarians were attacked at the military cemetery in Uzvölgy. This is not surprising, as Ferenc Gyurcsány's party is not at all important to the Hungarians from abroad, and even bases a significant part of its policy on incitement to foreign Hungarians. I am only saying this because it will not hurt the other opposition parties to keep it in mind when the group starts again, that they want to join forces with such a party, which is a party and whose party leader is least important to Hungarians from abroad. There is obviously a cooperation, because there is this new menu, this Gyurcsány menu on the opposition side: the appetizer is MSZP, the main course is Jobbik, and the dessert is all the rest. During this time, the Hungarian government deals with Hungarians from abroad. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-06-18-28	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. It's 10:16. We will now continue to work with the decisions on the agenda. Please take your seats and check that your card has been properly placed in the voting machine. Dear Parliament, Following a series of comments, T/6193 on the publication of the Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on cooperation in the field of military aviation and air defence activities. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/6193. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 165 votes in favour, not without a vote and without abstention. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: The card is not readable.]] Zoltán Kovács's machine doesn't work. Please turn it on. Thank you very much. Following a series of comments, the publication of an investment protection agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Singapore, of the other part, is T/6344. Final vote of bill No 1. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács is signaling how his machine works.]] Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/6344. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 167 votes in favour, not without a vote and without abstention. Following a series of comments, T/6346 on the announcement of the Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Cape Verde on the promotion and mutual protection of investments. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament, therefore, to accept T/6346. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 147 votes, not votes, with 23 abstentions. [[10.20]] The T/6348 on the announcement of the Defense Cooperation Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the United States of America. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/6348. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 167 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. The next step is the T/5237 on simplifying individual administrative procedures. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/5237.5. T/5237/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/5237.5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 123 votes in favour, no votes against, with 48 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/5237/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 123 votes in favour, no votes against, with 49 abstentions. It follows that H/5486 on the declaration of the year of national cohesion in 2020. Decision on the proposal for a summary amendment to the decision and the final vote. The summary amendment of the Legislative Committee's proposal H/5486/7 summary report H/5486/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the Legislative Committee H/5486/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 166 votes to six, with one abstention. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/5486.9. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 166 votes in favour, 5 against and 1 abstention. A series of provisions on the legal level for the control of livestock farming are set out in T/6190. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/6190. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 137 votes in favour, no votes against and 36 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions. [[Noise. Several Members are leaving the Chamber. It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, A joint general debate on the amendment of certain tax laws and other related laws as a result of EU harmonisation obligations will be launched. Government referrals T/6349. and T/6351. can be accessed by numbers on the House's IT network for everyone. I declare that the proposals will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. I would like to inform you that during the general debate, the opening speech by the author, the speech by the lead speaker and the speech by the national representative will take place. Further speeches by Members will be possible in the course of the debate. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance, author of the bill. The time frame is 30 minutes. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-06-18-29	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, On 4 June 2019 the Government submitted to Parliament the T/6351 amending certain tax laws and other related laws. T/6349 and T/6349 amending certain tax laws and other related laws as a result of EU harmonisation obligations. Bills No. 1. Dear Parliament, The expansion of the Hungarian economy reached 5.3 percent in the first quarter. The government is committed to preserving the progress achieved so far and to keeping the Hungarian economy on track. We have taken and will continue to take a number of measures to achieve this goal. One of the most important elements of this is the economic protection action plan adopted by the government. The Action Plan aims to stimulate growth and reduce tax burdens, while also aiming to provide additional support in future areas where economic growth can be sustained as far as possible. The bill before you contains the tax measures announced in the economic protection action plan, such as the reduction of the small enterprise tax, the abolition of the tax advance, the reduction of the tax on tourism accommodation tax. It is also proposed that the development tax discount not only apply to developments above HUF 500 million, but also to the value of HUF 50 to 100 million for small entrepreneurs and medium-sized entrepreneurs. The bill also contains the rules for the personal income tax relief of mothers with four or more children included in the family protection action plan. [[10.30]] In addition to these rules, it includes a number of simplification proposals that reduce the administrative burden on taxpayers. Dear Parliament, The second bill, as shown by its title, mainly contains the necessary amendments to fulfil Hungary's EU obligations. Let us therefore consider the content of the amendments to each bill that the government requests the Parliament's decision. In personal income tax, the proposal initiates the introduction of a new tax base reduction in the implementation of the measure announced in the Family Protection Action Plan. Under the proposed legislation, mothers who have given birth or adopted at least four children and raised children in their own household for at least 12 years are exempt from personal income tax for the rest of their lives for their work income. But not only is wages a job income, but also, for example, commission fees, entrepreneurial compensation for self-employed people, or incomes of first-time farmers. Discountable income is also the baby care fee, the childcare fee, the sickness allowance or the unemployment benefit, which is also taxable income. The government proposes to introduce the discount from 1 January 2020. Honourable Members, The administrative burden on the social contribution tax of primary producers will also be reduced on the basis of the bill. Thus, taking into account the seasonality of agricultural production, an annual tax ruling period is set for the social contribution tax instead of the current quarterly. In addition to the annual reporting obligation, a quarterly tax advance shall be paid only by the insured farmer and the small farmer who opts for a higher amount of social security benefits after the amount of the minimum wage or the amount committed in the quarter concerned. The government also intends to promote the central offices of international sports organisations in Hungary by means of taxation. Therefore, the rules of the simplified public burden-sharing contribution will be amended from 2020 so that employees of these organisations working in Hungary can also opt for echo taxation, i.e. they can pay an echo of 15% for a share of their income above the minimum wage. At the same time, the amount corresponding to the minimum wage shall bear the public burden in accordance with the general rules. On the other hand, income from personal income tax paid to persons carrying out special international sporting events, classified events, and allowances from the international sports association in the framework of sports diplomacy are exempted. Furthermore, the amount of the health service contribution should be adjusted according to inflation, so the amount of the contribution will vary from HUF 7500 per month to HUF 7710 per day from HUF 250 to HUF 257 per day. The rate of the health service contribution paid by the State to those in the national risk community also varies to HUF 7710. With regard to general sales tax, the bill, in line with the economic protection action plan, includes a reduction of the VAT rate on accommodation services to 5%. By reducing the VAT rate for commercial accommodation services, our country will apply the second lowest rate for this service from 2020 onwards. A lower rate can only be observed in Luxembourg, with a tax rate of only 3 per cent. This relates to the introduction of a 4-percent tourism development contribution for the same service. The source of this public burden remains in the sector and is dedicated to tourism. The changes to the excise law should be highlighted by the change in tobacco products, according to which the rates of excise duty for cigarettes and smoking tobacco will gradually increase in three stages from 2020 until 1 January 2021 in order to achieve the EU tax minimum. Due to the failure to comply with the minimum tax, on 25 January 2019 the European Commission initiated infringement proceedings against Hungary with a view to enforcing a lump sum tax increase, but our country continues to insist on reaching the minimum tax in several steps. The tax administration will continue to be reduced in local taxation. On the basis of an already accepted amendment, from July 2019 the municipal tax authorities of the place of establishment of the business tax entities will receive from the State tax authority all the information that the NAV keeps at the time of registration of the taxable person. From 1 January 2020, this legal institution will continue to expand. On the one hand, the information provided by the taxable person's establishment to the municipal tax authority is also received if the address of the establishment has been notified by the taxable person to the State tax authority. On the other hand, not only the data provided at the time of registration, but also the changes in these data are transmitted by the State tax authority to the local tax authorities of the taxable person's place of establishment, establishment or establishment. The third element of the simplification is that the business tax entity can report to the NAV its representative in the business tax case at the municipal tax authority, and the state tax authority also transmits this information to the local government tax authorities concerned. These changes will make the management of business tax matters considerably simpler. From 1 July 2010 until 31 December 2022, the advertising tax will be temporarily zero per cent. The amendment will increase the competitiveness of the taxable persons concerned and we expect it to help to further expand the advertising market. Dear Parliament, With regard to the corporate tax law, the proposals for amendments simplify tax administration, encourage the willingness of companies to invest, and also make provisions for a new legal institution, which is particularly successful, on group corporate tax base, even more competitive. As part of the economic protection action plan, the mandatory tax advance, i.e. the obligation to upload in company tax, will be abolished from the 2019 tax year. In this context, it is worth mentioning that the same amendment will be made in the innovation contribution and in the income tax of energy suppliers. The government expects that the three measures together will significantly reduce the time spent on tax administration in businesses from 2019 onwards. It is important to stress that sport and film support will not be negatively affected by the change, as the upload will be voluntary on the basis of a tax decision, and in this context a tax recommendation can be used in the 2019 tax year. According to the bill, the investment threshold for small and medium-sized enterprises in the development tax relief will change several steps in the coming years. As a result of the amendment proposal, small businesses will be entitled to tax relief from 2022 onwards, and medium-sized enterprises will be entitled to tax relief from their investments worth HUF 100 million. The desire to invest can also be positively influenced by the amendment that eliminates the conditions for increasing the number of employees or wage costs in the context of the development tax discount. [[10.40]] As part of the economic protection action plan, the burden on small enterprises applying small corporate tax will be reduced by reducing the key to small enterprise tax from 13% to 12%, also from 1 January 2020. The tax reduction is expected to leave HUF 5 billion in the companies concerned. Furthermore, as part of the economic action plan, the eva will cease to exist as of 1 January 2020 and the simplified business tax, as trends show that enterprises in the target group prefer to opt for the new simplified forms of taxation. This step is also moving towards our goal of significantly reducing the number of tax races by the end of the cycle. Dear House, In the framework of the amendments to the proposed EU legislation on harmonisation of legislation on turnover tax, the conditions for trade in products in the European Union for businesses will be simplified next year by providing a uniform regulatory framework for different practices in the Member States in the case of a number of frequently occurring sales arrangements. In accordance with international practice, it will be possible for the taxable person to recover VAT on irrecoverable claims under certain conditions. Compliance with EU law has also made it necessary to amend the VAT rules on the organisation of travel. As they lead to a significant change in stakeholders, it is appropriate to extend the preparation period for the new rules by one year. Dear Parliament, The regulation on tax administration processes serves to reduce the administrative burden on taxpayers by allowing for subsequent modification of the Ákr. announcements if the modified data is wrongly provided. The amendment will be subject to a bonus and can only be made within a specified time limit. Creating this option was a long-standing demand for businesses. It is also included as a tax-friendly measure in relation to Ákr. in the proposal that the taxpayer may exempt himself from the penalty of a default fine by certifying that he acted in the way he would normally expect in order to avoid default. The amendment of the local tax law creates a procedure that makes it the easiest way to report to the European Commission data on the local industrialisation tax relief for sports enterprises. Honourable Members, The primary objective of the amendment to the Accounting Act is to adapt the accounting rules for projects with EU and domestic sources to practical needs and to further approximate domestic standards to accounting standards under international IFRSs. The proposed amendment brings revenue accounting and related costs and expenses accounting in line with actual performance, irrespective of invoicing or how they are to be accounted for, in respect of contracts and projects that relate to several business years. New accounting rules under the proposal will already be applicable when compiling the 2019 accounts. The purpose of the amendment to the audit law is to enforce the ultimate responsibility of the audit public oversight authority as widely as possible. To this end, the bill expands the powers of the public oversight authority in the context of the chamber's quality control procedures by linking the adoption of quality control questionnaires and the methodological manual to the approval of the public oversight authority. In addition, the bill extends the cases of non-disclosure of auditors and audit firms in the context of the supervisory activities of the Hungarian National Bank. Dear Parliament, The amendment of the law on certain rules for international administrative cooperation in the field of taxes and other public burdens establishes a framework for a new EU mechanism for tax dispute resolution, including arbitration, and includes rules of procedure for mutual consultation with non-EU countries. This amendment facilitates a more effective settlement of tax disputes between countries. In addition, the amendment of the law, by transposing the related EU directive, creates an automatic exchange of information between tax authorities on cross-border tax planning arrangements. This type of information exchange further broadens the range of information available to the tax authority and the fight against tax evasion more effectively. Dear House, As regards corporate tax, the proposal is intended to comply with the EU anti-tax avoidance directive. In view of this, the proposed amendments aim, on the one hand, to prevent double, non-taxation situations arising from different legislation in the Member States and, on the other hand, to tax certain incomes of businesses or activities leaving Hungary. In addition, the proposal extends the scope of capital operations to which transfer pricing rules should apply in the context of anti-tax avoidance measures. In the context of the Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive, amendments are also being made to the Small Business Tax to ensure that this tax does not meet international requirements. Ladies and gentlemen, The legislative proposals before you will help to preserve progress in recent years in line with the objectives of the Government's adopted action plan on the protection of families and the protection of the economy, and will help to increase economic growth beyond the EU's additional average, and I therefore ask you to support the proposals submitted. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-18-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We now have the keynote speeches in a 30-30-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Mr Erik Bánki, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-06-18-31	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As early as 2010, the Government committed itself to a tax-reducing economic policy whose commitment at that time was, in particular, risky. Remember, in 2010, the Orbán government inherited a bankrupt country, a bankrupt budget and an insolvent state from the Gyurcsány and then the Bajnai government. Nevertheless, we thought that an economic recovery programme could not be carried out in such a way as to avoid constantly reducing the tax burden on businesses, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the levies on wages and, on the third, perhaps most importantly, the level of personal income tax, which ensures a better living at a high level for all Hungarian citizens. At the time, this Hungarian economic policy, which was started by the government in 2010 and in 2011, was the first budget and tax package that we were able to adopt in this spirit, was called a unorthodox economic policy throughout Europe, all Hungarian opposition parties and at international level were attacked by liberals and socialists, including some representatives of the European Commission. It has now been proven that this Hungarian economic model, which was then launched by the government and which has consistently persisted over the past few years, has produced fruitage, so much so that today our main critics, the European Commission, the International Monetary Fund and other international institutions and organisations, have recognised the performance that has set the Hungarian economy on a sustainable economic growth path. The next step in this tax reduction process is also the 2020 tax package, in which the government is trying, quite rightly, to provide as many social groups as possible and businesses with a more favourable tax environment. [[10.50]] We are confident that this process has also been shown in figures in terms of tax reductions, as the Hungarian government has become the largest tax reduction in the European Union. In 2016, the tax burden on GDP decreased from 39.3 per cent to 38.4 per cent in 2017, and this decline trend has persisted over the past years, and, as I said, the tax laws of 2020 will further strengthen this process. The main features of the tax package submitted are predictability, which I think is of paramount importance to all economic operators, in addition to further reducing the tax burden. It is no coincidence that, thanks to the predictable fiscal and economic policies of recent years, Hungary has become one of Europe's most popular investment targets, and even one of the ten most sought-after investment destinations in the world, which I think we can all be proud of. In addition to predictability, we consider it very important to maintain economic growth, because there is nothing for a favourable tax environment, nothing for a tax reduction programme that the government is doing if it is not able to keep economic growth on a sustainable path. Over the last six years, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the growth of the Hungarian economy has been more than impressive. Mr Secretary of State mentioned in his expo that last quarter and this year's first quarter of economic growth exceeded 5 percent, which is an outstanding result and outstanding performance in the European Union as well. But if we look at the average of the last six years, then we can say that the Hungarian economic growth of the last six years has just doubled the growth average of the European Union, and this is undoubtedly important for the goal that we have decided to catch up with Western Europe in a tangible way by 2030, not only in terms of economic performance, but also in terms of Hungarian wages. The relationship between the two is perfectly clear and clear. The next important element of the tax package is investor-friendly attitudes. As I have just mentioned to you, Hungary is one of the ten most sought-after investment countries in the world, and we believe that this situation, this situation, must be maintained, so that next year's tax package is, quite rightly, extremely focused on investor-friendly attitudes and the introduction of further incentive schemes that will be able to further strengthen this process. All in all, I can therefore say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that this tax package can serve both to create a successful economic policy and a higher standard of living in 2020. As I have said to you, given these aspects, the economic policy that we are pursuing is completely different from the economic policy that marked the period before 2010. The Gyurcsány government, but also the Bajnai government, was characterized by the fact that what we reduced, they increased what we increased, they reduced. What is happening in the course of recent years? Average wages increase significantly year by year, average wages have increased by nearly 50 percent in Hungary over the last four years, and minimum wage and minimum wage have doubled. What happened during the Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments? They reduced wages because they took 13 months' wages from employees, took 13 months' pensions from pensioners, so they reduced wages. We reduce the level of taxes and taxes, the governments of Gyurcsány and Bajnai, and especially during the crisis, have increased the level of taxation, which, rather than remedying the crisis, has led the country into a deeper crisis. In 2009, 7 percent of GDP fell, which was one of the worst countries in the European Union. We therefore believe that this policy must not be changed, but we do not want to change it. We do not want the economic growth path on which Hungary started to suffer in any way. If we look at what measures are expected next year, then I have to say that the government is once again faithful to its earlier promises, as the economic protection action plan has recently been adopted. The implementation of the economic protection action plan will be fully implemented in all elements of next year's tax laws. We believe that economic policy measures that will help economic growth next year are perfectly aligned with the amendments and proposals contained in the tax law. Let us look in detail at what domestic businesses can expect in 2020 under the economic protection action plan. The key to the small company tax, as the Secretary of State indicated in his expo, is reduced by 1 percent, but in substance, from 13 to 12 percent from 1 January 2020. This means that with this measure, the government will leave about HUF 5 billion in domestic small businesses. The popularity of this new tax system is also shown by the fact that in 2016 there were only 6,500 subjects of this tax system, and this year 40,000 companies pay their taxes in this system. We believe that, thanks to reductions and simplifications, this figure will continue to increase by 40,000 in 2020. At the same time, the simplified business tax will be imposed by the government, quite rightly, as there is no need for it anymore, this new tax will perfectly trigger it, make it much simpler and set a much lower tax level. Therefore, as of 1 January 2020, the Eva will be removed from the system. Another very important measure is expected in 2020, which will help Hungarian farmers, Hungarian companies and companies, and this is that the deadline for charging tax will cease in December from this year, i.e. 2019. Thus, as each company will have to accept its closing balance sheet in May, the government will adapt its tax liability to May from now on and there will be no obligation to charge tax in December. This means that businesses can manage by approximately HUF 150-170 billion from December to May, and the budget clearly has to calculate that what was previously an advanced income will then be spent by May. But who has already seen the draft budget for next year sees that this has also been perfectly coordinated by the government with the current amendment of the tax laws. The development tax reduction, the investment threshold for the title of small and medium-sized enterprises, will be reduced in several stages, as a first step after 1 January 2020. The rate of advertising tax, also mentioned by the Secretary of State in his expozee, will be reduced to zero per cent between 1 July 2019 and 31 December 2020. We believe that this will also bring considerable relief from this year. The VAT rate for accommodation services will also be reduced, which is in the interest of tourism. Many times and in many places in recent years, the critical observation from the domestic players of tourism is that their competitiveness is impaired by the fact that their average tax burden is much higher than that of their European competitors. If you look at the average VAT rate currently set for our European competitors, you can see that it is somewhere between 8 and 15 percent, compared to this the VAT burden of Hungarian tourism was higher. Therefore, the government is very rightly proposing to change the VAT rate, which we support to the farthest. This will mean, ladies and gentlemen, that the VAT rate for accommodation and accommodation services will be reduced from 18% to 5%. I think this will cause a very significant increase in competitiveness in the tourism sector. If we take into account that over the past years the performance of tourism has increased exceedingly, the turnover of accommodation and accommodation services has increased above 10 per cent per year, we believe that this measure will further increase. Quite rightly, in parallel with this measure, the government provides for a 4 percent contribution to the development of tourism for those who work in this sector, and this will clearly be used to carry out effective and efficient marketing activities in Hungary, which will lead to higher demand in international markets than in the past, since we must not forget that further restructuring can and must be achieved in respect of foreign guests arriving in the tourism sector in order to ensure that guests with higher spending willingness arrive in Hungary, thereby increasing the level and quality of the sector's results. [[11.00]] I therefore think that this measure will also significantly help and strengthen the competitiveness of domestic businesses. The level of taxes on work is also decreasing. The Hungarian Government has made a unique agreement with employers and employees for six years, and I think that it is an outstanding success, and this is the result of a very long and thorough conciliation process, which has resulted in the government's declaratory commitment to reduce the level of labour-paying contributions every year over the six years. This will be reduced by 2 percentage points in 2020 from 19.5 per cent to 17.5 per cent, sorry, it will have a tangible effect as early as 1 July, so it will have a significant impact this year, and this year, in particular, it will remain more than HUF 144 billion in Hungary and this amount will increase to HUF 156 billion in 2020. I think that this is also a significant measure, which, by the way, serves and can sustain the competitiveness of the domestic economy. It will be very important, which does not directly, but indirectly affect the economic operators, but it will strengthen the capacity of the domestic population, especially the rural population, and this is the VAT refund that will allow those who build in small settlements to reclaim the general sales tax up to HUF 5 million after 1 January 2020. We expect this measure to increase the population retention power of the countryside, and it is once again attractive for young people to find their homes not only in big cities and small towns, but also in small settlements in the vicinity of large cities and small towns, and to grow their families there. Obviously, in parallel, we need to strengthen the process of creating jobs in order not only to be commuters but also to be locally employed. We consider it very important to create a personal income tax exemption for mothers with four or more children from 2020 to be a unique tax relief scheme in Europe, so that the family support system to which we are so proud will be further strengthened by such a step that from 1 January 2020... and from 2020 mothers with four or more children will not have to pay personal income tax at all. Another change in the financial sector is that the postal cheque payment will be free of charge up to HUF 20,000, and the HUF 6 000 fee cap will also be introduced, and the purchase of postal sovereign debt will also be free of charge. These changes will enter into force after the publication of the law, and we believe that they will also have a positive impact on the Hungarian market. In order to encourage the establishment of international sports organisations in Hungary, we adopted a law this year, in which representatives of the government and Fidesz-KDNP expressed their intention that Hungary and Budapest not only want to play a prominent role in organising outstanding international sporting events and sporting events, but also want to ensure that as many international, large sports organisations as possible choose Budapest as their seat. Accordingly, the Sports Act has been amended, and now in the Tax Act there is an amendment that gives rise to the possibility for national sports organisations to receive the benefits which are otherwise available in Hungary. This proposal allows employees of international sports organisations, like those of Hungarian sports organisations, to opt for taxation on the basis of a simplified public burden-sharing contribution. We believe that this is also a favourable tax option that can be competitive at international level and helps to achieve the goal, the intention of these otherwise prestigious international sports organisations to choose Hungary and Budapest as their headquarters. In addition, the International Sports Federation is exempted from paying echo to the paying agent, is exempt from payment of benefits under sports diplomacy, is exempt from tax and income paid or paid to persons carrying out tasks in connection with the organisation of an event designated as a flagship international sporting event by the Government decision and will be eligible to the extent specified in the Government Decision. I think it is very important to note that this is not a general one, but it is always a special government-based discount, because we do not want this opportunity to be available for each event, but we think that when placing a prestigious international event on Hungary, a competition may be possible where such a discount is needed in order for the organizer to choose Hungary as the venue. Ladies and Gentlemen, There are also a number of small things that deserve attention, such as group corporate tax base, since the provisions on the start of group membership will be amended on the basis of the proposal, so that newly formed companies can already start their corporate tax base as a group member. The condition for the same accounting currency of the group members and the obligation to declare equivalent to the tax return to the tax authority shall be deleted from next year. In addition, provisions relating to the minimum income or profit, the limitation of interest and the minimum tax on taxpayers under IFRSs are clarified. As part of next year's tax package, it is very important that the administrative burden on primary producers is further reduced. The obligation to pay a social contribution tax on farmers should be paid annually, instead of the current quarterly, in the personal income tax declaration, so here it will be one-off instead of a four-time declaration. In addition to an annual reporting obligation, a quarterly tax advance shall be paid only by the insured farmer and the small farmer who chooses a higher amount of benefits, after the sum of the sum committed to obtain the minimum wage or the higher amount of social security benefits in the fourth quarter of the year concerned. Therefore, our commitment to reduce the administrative burden in addition to the tax reduction will be achieved in the case of primary producers with this amendment. Ladies and Gentlemen, I think that the tax package that lies before you serves the interests of Hungary and the Hungarian people in all respects gives domestic businesses opportunities for competitiveness and growth that can maintain a sustainable growth path for the Hungarian economy that can grow above the average of the European Union and that is able to maintain a predictable and safe growth path despite international changes, thereby preserving the jobs that we have created over the past years, keeping the income growth of Hungarian people going, and thus increasing their standard of living after 2019 as well. I therefore ask you to support the tax package that lies before this House. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-18-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mrs Potocskané Anita Kőrösi. There you go. You have the floor.
u2019-06-18-33	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I remember that 15 years ago, when we were waiting for this summer tax package, we met rarely with 300-400-page documents, and I was happy to see that now we can meet those changes in a relatively short law, tax legislation does not change radically. Why am I saying this? Because yes, it is necessary to talk about the need to reduce the tax administration burden on companies, but it is not a question that the profession, accountants, tax advisors and auditors are always waiting for this summer tax package to see what changes will be made, and as we have seen in recent weeks, months, and we knew in advance that this tax package will be around the family protection action plan and the economic protection action plan, these changes will be reflected in the bill. The other bill, which serves the objectives of harmonisation, also contains changes that could be expected under EU legislation. [[11.10]] I'd like to start with the 6351 because I think these are the changes that most need to be discussed. Let's start with a change in personal income tax, a change in the legislation of personal income tax. As the Jobbik Group has repeatedly said, for example, my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z. Carpát, yes, we very much welcome the initiative of integrating the tax relief of mothers who have children into the Hungarian legal system, but of the fact that this is done in four or more families, we do not think that it will have the effect that the government wants to achieve. It would have been much better if the original ideas had been that mothers of families with three or more children were included in the legislation. However, I see that if this kind of benefit for four-child mothers is introduced into the law, then the institution of the family discount, which will be 880 thousand forints for four children, will remain in force; this can continue to be shared among the spouses. Thus, it can be realized that the mother does not pay taxes and can also benefit from a contribution allowance, a family contribution allowance, and even a husband or a spouse can receive this benefit. So it is indeed a very serious discount that lies before us now. I agree with the speech that it was necessary to launch the Eva, because it can be seen that while it was a very popular tax in the mid-2000s, it was indeed the most competitive tax, but this changed with the appearance of the kiva and the kata. And, yes, these evaders are expected to enter the kivába, or they may decide to continue their activities, changing the form of their business, or as catatonic entities. Speaking of which, yes, the explanatory statement also stated that the reduction from 13 per cent to 12 per cent was a change in the rate of the social contribution tax adopted this week. That tax rate dropped from 19.5 percent to 17.5 percent, right? This is also justified in the way in which we know that the kiva also triggers the payment of the social contribution tax. And then allow me to take a small detour on the social contribution tax, because in 2012, when this legislation was adopted, there was a very serious critical comment in the profession. What happened? Social contributions have been replaced by social contributions tax. The hardest thing about this is that the difference between contributions and taxes has reached very few places, perhaps the government has not spoken of this for a reason. In the case of a contribution, compensation is expected, while in the case of a tax, this compensation is excluded. What does that mean? As long as this was paid in the form of a contribution by the Hungarian worker, he knew that this would come back in the social security system. However, as of 2013, this is in the form of a tax, which means that the government can spend it on virtually anything. You don't have an obligation to turn this back into this system. This is a very serious change, and yes, I think that if it remains in the form of a tax, and this is clearly the objective of the government, because it is already dealt with by a separate law, not only as part of a law, but also as a few paragraphs, so this change will cause deep wounds to others later, especially when it will no longer be the person who maintains the pension system. With regard to VAT: it is almost unbelievable that this change has occurred in one page at most. However, in recent years the profession has not been used to this and neither have we, and the main change is to reduce the VAT on commercial accommodation services declared in the Economic Protection Action Plan from 18% to 5%. There have been a number of speeches about these pros and cons, but I do see that this will be useful for the whole tourism sector, and we hope that not only will the aim be achieved for companies to invest in their own investments and for the development of their own tourist attractions, but will also be used to improve wages. This is also extremely important, because I believe that the tourism sector, especially during the summer period, is apparently in a labour shortage on the shore of Lake Balaton, and it is indeed necessary that these commercial accommodation service providers turn back this VAT reduction surplus to settle wages and provide additional quality services. This is also linked to the amendment of another legislation, this is the contribution to the development of tourism, which is also changing according to this legislation, i.e. the VAT reduction. In the past, this 4 per cent burden had to be paid for restaurant services, and since there had already been a VAT reduction there, it will now be necessary to pay this 4-percent tourism development contribution by reducing the VAT rate of the commercial accommodation service. So overall, if we add VAT and this, it will be a 9 percent burden against the previous 18 percent burden. However, it is welcome that it has not happened that VAT... this intermediate key, let's say, would have introduced such a 9 percent, since this 4-percent tourism development contribution can be used in a targeted way for tourism development purposes, so we hope that this 4 percent will be particularly good here. There is also a large group that is also welcome, and this is the introduction of a tax advance obligation in several tax categories. However, when I think back, it has happened, indeed, on several occasions, that companies have failed to upload the corporate tax, business tax, innovation contribution properly until 20 December, but that on 31 May the figures proved otherwise, and that the 20 percent fine had arrived because of the failure to determine this upload obligation, so I definitely value this as a very positive change and amendment. It is not only that the accounting industry chews off its ten nails from 20 December to 31 May, but that companies, companies, can prepare well in time for the planned payment of the corporate tax advance, business tax advance and innovation contribution, i.e. the quarterly or monthly liability that applies to them. Speaking of corporate tax, I would like to mention another positive change there. It appears that development tax relief over the years... is currently possible for small and medium-sized enterprises to make investments in excess of 500 million, under very serious wage costs and labour costs conditions, and this is being carried out. Thus, the condition of staffing and labour costs is completely terminated and the investment threshold for small businesses is virtually decimated from 20 to 22 as from 500 million to 2022, according to the current amendment proposal, this development tax relief is already available for 50 million investments. Quite rightly, I also believe that small and medium-sized enterprises should be separated. The difference between the services sector and the size of the company is that the 500 million forints have been treated in one piece so far, and now in different ways on the basis of the amending proposal. Thus, small enterprises will be subject to a smaller investment limit than medium-sized enterprises. [[11.20]] I'm looking at my notes; I'd like to mention a few more things. One is related to the ecclesiastical, the limit of which was drastically raised just a few months ago, which we also protested against in football. We know how this eco-taxation works, the budget can reduce significant revenues, and the government raised the Ekho border to hundreds of millions of forints. And now he's bringing in the employees of the international sports association and everyone who wants to be involved in this tax. I am very saddened to find that although the echo law provides opportunities not only for athletes but also for actors and other professional groups, they do not touch it very much. I think that it would also be worthwhile to support athletes to such an extent and thus introduce these echosing reduced burdens, and it would also be worth considering them. It's still a sport, but it's in the other law. Proposal 6349 for harmonisation obligations in the EU touches on the Tao. By financing the operational loss of sports property can also be achieved through visual team sports support, which is 50 percent in the text currently in force, which is increased to 80 percent. They saw that while these stadiums are constantly being built, the maintenance problems persist, see Szombathely, there we know what will happen, it will happen... [[Dr. László György Lu-kács intervenes.]] Yes, the audience is also low, and these stadiums are also oversized. You have seen that the municipalities can no longer be burdened with this. This 80-percent operating loss, yes, must indeed be approved by all sorts of organizations to accept it in this way and be a support decision to it, but this is quite harsh. The other part is the change in the same paragraph, that the amount will be increased from HUF 300 million to HUF 600 million per period of support. It's pretty amazing. Sorry for the expression, it is part of the infrastructure investment of the reckless visual team sport support that, for operating costs, taxpayers' money could now be spent on other things, much more important things, once again wandering back and forth to the organizations against which we are protesting, with little success. These stadiums, these infrastructure investments will continue to stand there in five, ten and twenty years' time, and you will see that sooner or later, they will change the legislation in vain, so that they can now provide visual team sports support to 80% of the operating losses, they will simply lie on the ground, and it will become more and more difficult to maintain them. So, overall, it appears from this tax package that it is indeed based on the previously announced economic and family protection action plan, that their changes are reflected, that most of them are eligible, and that there is a need to be clarified and amended. I trust that, on the basis of what has been said, these amendments will be made, and although this amendment is in the bill of harmonisation, I respectfully ask that they do not do so, because this will not do the right thing. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-18-34	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr János Harghitai. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-06-18-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. It is not my duty to declare the speech of opposition speakers, but I would be rude if I did not return to the speech of Anita Kőrösi for at least one sentence. What we have heard here is quite unusual in this genre, that an opposition representative is clearly speaking from within, so he understands what he is talking about; it is not unusual, so I do not want to classify opposition representatives in this way, but it simply speaks to them in a realistic manner, and does not attack what is unnecessary to attack and critical comments where he sees criticism. At this tone, at this opposition speech, I say that we were not used to this in this House. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and the pro-government representatives.]] It was a round of applause for the opposition speaker, and I just recognized what I heard. The congresswoman also said that she was not surprised by the provisions of the tax law, because the family protection action plan and the economic protection action plan are reflected in this draft tax law as political documents. I add to this idea that, of course, this is not surprising, because the government has been consistent for ten years, I say, when it formulates economic policy or tax policy and sets them into law. In 2010, when we took over the country's governance, it was obvious to us that, with the economic policy and the tax policy that the previous government was pursuing, which bankrupted the country, of course, the basis for reference is always that there was a global economic crisis, and that has put the country in a difficult position, but we add that we are the only country or one of the few countries that was swept away by this economic crisis, and yet this was embedded in the then Hungarian economic policy, so that we had to break up, it was quite obvious. We have consistently represented in the beginning and represent the fact that we have reduced wage taxes, now we have a personal income tax system that is competitive at European Union level, perhaps using the third most favourable personal income tax rate in the European Union. In corporate tax, we became the most competitive. With regard to VAT, we always get the criticism that we have a very high VAT rate, 27 percent. That is true, but I always add that, and here I refer to the State Audit Office's material, that the average tax burden on VAT in 2020 is 21,3%, and that is 0.2 percent less than in 2019. So we consistently hold the view that we are burdening the reduction of wage-like taxes and rather consumption. I think it is important in this time horizon that we have been able to implement a consistent economic policy, that we have been able to agree with workers' organisations for six years to increase wages and, accordingly, to help employers to pay these higher wages, minimum wages, minimum wage, labour minimum wage and everything else, accordingly, if this happens and has happened, the state will also reduce their burden. It is also consistent with the government's view that, in addition to reducing taxes, it simplifies taxes and makes them more transparent. I want to talk about these two areas in more detail. I'll start with the logic and thinking of tax simplification. I am also in an easy position because the Secretary of State, Izer Norbert, who is now in Parliament, has recently appeared in the Hungarian nation or where an article has presented this thinking perfectly, and I cannot do that to you. The Secretary of State talks about the fact that at the end of 2018, there were 60 public burdens on those affected, and we want to reduce this by one third in one cycle. He mentioned that there had already been a 75 percent special tax on individual incomes, that the special tax on credit institutions, the cultural tax, the accident tax had been included in the insurance tax, and that the health contribution had been included in the social contribution tax. [[11.30]] In 2020, and this already leads to this draft law, which we are discussing now, we will reduce by four taxes. The pension contribution, which is 10 per cent, is the health contribution in kind, which is 4 per cent, the monetary health contribution, which is 3 per cent, and the labour market contribution, which is 1.5 per cent, is merged into a tax burden. So this is a very significant simplification; it is not four accounts that businesses have to transfer to, but one account, and this is obviously a significant relief for an undertaking. The fourth, mentioned by the Secretary of State, and obviously thanks you back in the law, is the introduction of a simplified entrepreneurial tax, the Eva. As a matter of fact, he brings it up, and here he provides data in his interview that in 2006 there were 99 thousand more taxpayers reaching for the evac or applying the eva, since then this number has been reduced to 19 thousand. It is apparent that this tax has become uncompetitive; it has become uncompetitive because the government has in the meantime offered more favourable tax conditions to entrepreneurs. Those who are out of the evac can choose the entrepreneurial tax, the kata or the small company tax, the kiva, and the regulations are such that they can join it at any time, and from the next few months, entrepreneurs will be able to tax these taxes. In the context of simplification, which we individuals have known and enjoyed since 2017, the tax office has been preparing our personal income tax returns since 17 and more people are making use of it, obviously this is a great relief for individuals and taxpayers. In the case of companies, the same effort is being made. From 2021, most corporate tax returns will be prepared by the IRS. This practice has already started once a month with the preparation of draft excise tax returns, and companies are already meeting with this. So these movements, which represent a more transparent tax policy in the tax system, are simplifications, are less tax, which is obviously easier for companies and for all taxpayers. In the draft tax that we have just submitted, we are in favour of simplifications, as I have already said, also consistently thinking about reducing taxes. Obviously, we can do this because the economic policy that the government has been pursuing for a long time is indisputably effective. The Minister of State Tállai referred to the growth rates in the first quarter in his expo, and the economy increased by 5.3 percent. Even if we cannot maintain this very beautiful number in a European or global economy environment in which we have to calculate the growth reduction, but obviously we want to preserve the results that the Hungarian economic policy has produced; that is what the economic action plan has formulated, and the measures of this action plan are in the form of tax reductions in this draft law. Let me mention the most important things and fix the figures that this tax reduction will cause the government and the budget to lose, but what is budget failure is a revenue surplus for taxpayers, because they do not pay to the state, but manage these amounts. Speaking of which, I also mention the reduction of the Kiva's tax rate from 13 to 12 percent, which means a budget expenditure of HUF 5 billion. I told you about the abolition of the Eva. Reduction of the threshold for development tax reductions in a three-year stage. In 2020, this means minus 1.5 billion to the budget, minus 6 billion in 22 and minus 10 billion in 23. Both my fellow Members and the Secretary of State talked about reducing the VAT rate for commercial accommodations, and the transfer is being made to a reduced rate of 5%. Although the 4 percent contribution to tourism development is extended, the combined item of the two still represents a budget deficit of 22-24 billion to the state register. The key of the advertising tax is temporarily classified as zero percent, which means a loss of minus HUF 17.2 billion. The most enjoyable change is our family policy action plan, as a result of our consultation with people. The benefits of mothers who have four children will be free of personal income tax for the rest of their lives. The lead speaker of Jobbik also mentioned it yesterday: of course, it would be better to do so for the three-year-olds, which the budget has not yet been able to undertake, but I think it is still a great achievement that Hungarian economic policy is already able to do so, and we will probably build on it in the long term. So what Mrs Kőrösi has brought up is not a despicable idea, and that is where we are now, and that is what we have been able to do. 1 billion HUF extra revenue to say one of these items will mean to the budget that the private trust funds that will be set up or created will obviously also be taxed, and there will also be some kind of budget revenue. The financial transaction tax, introduced in a crisis situation as a legacy of socialist governance when we had to generate tax revenues [[Attila Mesterházy intervenes.]] Unorthodoxly, it worked effectively, and a reduction is expected here. By HUF 20,000, the cheque payment will be free of charge, and we will introduce a maximum of HUF 6,000, which will mean a loss of HUF 5 billion to the budget. These were perhaps the most exciting items. Again, what is losing the budget is saving individuals and businesses. Because of this consistent economic policy, the State Audit Office of Hungary can say, and here I quote from the documents of the State Audit Office that, in addition to tax reductions and simplifications, tax revenues will increase in the 2020 budget, with HUF 1366 billion. So this is a 13.7 percent increase. From growth, businesses will achieve 17.1 percent more, consumption-related taxes will increase by 14 percent, and the overall increase in public contributions by 11 percent. So we can generate additional budget revenue by reducing taxes. A few years ago, when the government came to this thinking, economic experts indicated from all directions how impossible this was; the economic policy of the Orbán government has shown for years that this is possible. The rate of tax at an affordable rate will not be cheated by entrepreneurs, thus increasing the performance of the economy and the increasing annual GDP is clearly generating additional tax revenues for the budget. So I think that this consistency, this thinking that has been accompanying the government's thinking for many years, can be seen in this draft tax policy law, which I wanted to briefly present here in the form of tax reductions and simplifications. I strongly recommend to my fellow Members that I do not have to do this on the government side, because it is natural, but I also recommend on the opposition side the thinking that you have heard from Anita Kőrösi here, consider what are the tax laws [[Attila Mesterházy intervenes.]] the moments that you can support. Obviously, I know that in the final vote, they're going to press "no" in parliamentary mathematics. [[Interventions from the opposition, including Attila Mesterházy: Not sure! After such good speeches, we'll think about it.]] It's next. Attila Mesterházy here with his intervention confirms this [[Attila Mesterházy: Absolutely!]] We understand that, but we also appreciate it when we hear realistic analyses from you. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[11.40]]
u2019-06-18-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Csaba Tóth. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-06-18-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The tax package submitted by the Government for 2020 is not considered by the experts or the market to be as significant as that presented by Minister for Finance Varga at the time of the presentation of the economic protection action plan. In fact, the tax package announced as a large-scale tax reduction has barely reduced taxes. The reduction of the social contribution tax by 2 percentage points will take away almost all of the release, which employers and especially multinationals will be able to take advantage of, while the burden of 99 percent of workers will not be reduced. However, the right steps include a slight amendment of the small company tax, from 13 to 12 percent. This year, the budget expects HUF 50 billion in revenue from this tax, so its reduction by 1 percentage point means just a few billion HUF release. The four - child mother's sja-free is about 50,000 people in a circle. The problem with the obvious eligible step is that mothers with three children do not receive this exemption despite prior promises and even clear support from the results of the responses to the national consultation. For this reason, the government remained in debt. Accommodation services, i.e. the VAT reduction of hotels, appear to be significant at first sight, but at the same time the 4 percent burden of the tourism development contribution will be introduced for this sector. In fact, the VAT rate is changed to 9 percent instead of 5 percent. Although the government expects the tax reduction to be passed on to the guests due to competition in the market, this seems unlikely. It's enough to think about reducing the VAT on catering. The sector has swallowed the total tax reduction, but it has not been possible to prevent price increases. It can only be hoped that hotels, even if they do not lower their prices, will at least use the money saved to raise wages. It's an interesting step to cut the advertising tax rate to zero percent. As we all know, this was the tax that the government openly and specifically introduced for the purpose of redeploying the media market. So it's no coincidence that in the first year, a single taxpayer paid 80 percent of the total revenue. The European Commission has already called for this burden to stop on several occasions. In view of this, our faction supports the suspension of this market-distorting tax. In addition to tax reductions, however, we can also see some tax increases. The monthly and daily amount of healthcare contributions will also increase next year. What is likely to affect many people is a significant increase in excise duty on tobacco products. With the increase this year, the price of a pack of cigarettes exceeded 1,500 forints. According to the government's plans, it will gradually increase in the coming years, slowly approaching the 2000 HUF box price. Although reducing smoking is an eligible direction, it would be appropriate not only to try to stop consumption by raising taxes, because in this form it only appears as a penalty tax. In conclusion, the MSZP Group supports the tax reduction measures of the bill, the suspension of the application of advertising tax, the reduction of taxes on small businesses. At the same time, it would have been right to reduce the burden on workers as well as employers, because Hungarian workers will remain one of the most taxed groups in the European Union in 2020. Thank you for your attention. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-06-18-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr László Varju. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-06-18-39	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr President, I cannot comply with the request of Congressman Harghitai... You can expect consistent behaviour in my view that I would like to criticise the draft laws that you have tabled, in part, in line with the opposition's opportunity and, in part, your task. Only because it is the result of your cooperation that a natural thing, such as the Committee on Budgets, which deals with the Budget Act, the revenue side as an important law on tax revenues and tax amendments, was not intended to be discussed by either the government, the Speaker of the House or by the majority in favour of the Government. I believe that there will be a practice on your part that, if this should not be discussed in committee, you should not be surprised that the objections which could form the basis for the adoption of amendments cannot be prevented. Thus, they cannot prevent you from taking away a third of what you count in this sense by 27 percent of pensioners with 80,000 forints, and, contrary to that, you are proposing to make it even cheaper, even better with a 9 percent corporate tax, even less what they have to pay. Well, that's what I don't think is acceptable. Your concept hasn't changed in years. Yes, as we have heard from the chairman of the Economic Commission, you want to tax consumption, and consumption is the worst hit on the poor, on the people, as I said, pensioners who do not live with 80,000 forints or less. They're actually at a disadvantage. This is the first and general item, and everything that appears in your system as a reduction should be your problem of what it is enough for. There is no substantive amendment, and therefore there is no, I think that there is something to support in this respect. In addition, if the budget law is yet to be shown for a moment, they keep everyone in complete uncertainty, because the otherwise significantly increasing... while you here, Congressman Mesterházy, will surely tell us what perfection you are witnessing here again, especially on the part of the Economic Commission, in its use of the word, that everything is sure and good, everything will decrease and everyone will be better, and you expect hundreds of billions of forints higher tax revenue compared to that. Last year it was HUF 18 751 billion, this year it is HUF 19 580 billion, and next year it is expected tax revenue of HUF 21 425 billion, from the people I mentioned earlier. Of course, we can look at what is happening in the entrepreneurial sphere, we can look at what is happening in the retail sector, but it is clear that they will otherwise be sabotaged, and the largest tool of this is the general sales tax, which is the highest in Europe. [[István Szilárd Németh: Oh, you're talking nonsense!]] There is no reference to the average of this, by the way. Yes, it is higher in the richest countries, but Hungary is not one of the richest countries. Therefore, when the price of the products needed for raising children is also held in the category where people are placed in the position of buying a stroller, they also look at where they will buy it, but not in Hungary, because they need to move a little bit, and the price of this product is much cheaper there. So, I believe that increased revenues in this way are contrary to what you claim. That, of course, doesn't mean they can't fly pink clouds and show them how beautiful they are. Then, of course, this additional revenue is certainly needed, because of what the European Union's use of resources would pay, which should be financed from the state budget. See the Elios case, and we could go on with the outstanding cases, because that's what tax revenues are really for, because in health care, they're trying to spend their money in a declining way in education. [[11.50]] So, this concept that you represent is safe to say that it is not acceptable from this point of view, and that is why you should not expect support in detail, even if you bring the best athletes here, and I understand that they should be favoured, and they will be happy accordingly. What I still miss very much from this presentation is that the competitiveness programmes that you have produced over the past few years, I would rather say that the Hungarian National Bank and the Ministry of Finance have done one, the consequences of that... is now a question of what is in place and which should be taken into account, and secondly, how the consequences of that are reflected here. It's worth following up on, too. In the last thought, I would also like to draw attention to the contradiction that, once mentioned so much, and it will certainly be a pleasure if tourism and we stay at the former thought want to increase its competitiveness, they will increase, I hope, by reducing VAT, and at the same time introduce another tax, which is virtually not 5%, but they forget to say that, because everyone here has referred to a reduction of 5%, but forgot to say that they will add a 4-percent contribution to tourism development, which they will otherwise have to pay. So, overall, the pink clouds proposed in favour of harmonisation are less tolerated. Since there is no substantial change in the concept that the few who are most dear to you are supported by this tax law, but the many people who can be most affected by it, they themselves cannot protest at the very least because of their small possibilities, except that I am in their interest to say that the procedure for the 27 per cent tax-tapping of the 80 thousand HUF pension is wrong. You will continue to do so, and I hope that you will be punished not only by listening to me here, but also by disavowing your votes from you, continuing the good traditions of 2019. [[Dr. János Harghitai: True, it was only 53 percent.]] I trust that, and then you will realize that it is time for you to change, especially in the interests of the people. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-18-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mr Csárdi Antal. Feel free to put the microphone on, then adjust the time accordingly. Yes, please, this is where the Member's speech begins. Here you go.
u2019-06-18-41	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Parliament, We need to talk about the future of the country in connection with the Tax Law. The budget sets out the big directions, and it is natural, yet telling, that what we pay special attention to year after year is primarily tax laws. This records the alpha and omega of everything, how much we take from, how much we give to, what we encourage and what we try to hinder. I think that the opposition here, based on its many years of experience, will have little say in defining these directions. I think that's unfortunate. So there's nothing we can do but say, as compensation, through the tax law, what kind of social and economic environment we green people would like to see desirable. In short and succinctly, we want a fair, sustainable, people-centred, green and innovative economy. The tax system after 2010 pushed Hungary towards an extremely unfair society, with all its consequences. I believe that the numbers are very good, but I think that there is an immensely large playground in the statistics, that it doesn't or doesn't very rarely show any small slices of reality. I think that the single-key tax, complemented by the government policy supporting multinationals at all levels, created the rich few and the millions of poor Hungarian societies. Today it is easier for a multinational company every year, while for a Hungarian SME it is harder every year. The richest upper middle class is getting more and more help, while the rest of society, this 80-90 percent, can only hope that next year may not be more difficult. There are social groups that have been waiting for years or even decades for the state to finally help them get along, but they must be disappointed every year. The family allowance has lost a significant part of its value, the fate of single-parent families is poverty, minimal pensions have remained unchanged for years, the remuneration of civil servants also falls short of the work they are doing, even though I think that if, somewhere in Parliament, in this House, the work of civil servants should be appreciated; not that it reduces the responsibility we feel for our elderly relatives or the other losers of the budget. It is no wonder that hundreds of thousands of Hungarians are seeking their prosperity abroad, and this serious injustice will not be better for the future. Dear fellow Members, I think that it is not necessary to do such a terrible job if you go out on the street, even in your own constituency, then there is no way that you will not see that a social gap has developed in this country for years, decades, which does help migration, and instead of trying to bridge this social divide, you are interested in reducing economic differences, as the current budget shows, in further increasing these. It is particularly painful how much the Hungarian government does not care about the world's green light, which was still a matter of choice a few years ago, but in a few years it will be forced. The negative effects of climate change are already felt by us, but the government's economic policy and its tax system, instead of dealing with it, make the situation even worse. That is what we have said, that we are talking about the budget of living the future, and let me explain this in a few sentences. Instead of taxing wasteful consumption, pollution, environmental damage, support for adaptation investments, the Hungarian government supports polluting large companies and polluting industrial investments in Hungary and protects them on the international stage. However, the green economy could be a huge opportunity for our country. Crisis-resistant, future-investing businesses, I think I could help this nation a lot, but you support outdated companies in the 1970s, and I think that this is a serious problem. The government's tax policy does not reflect the tasks to be solved, it does not respond to the problems, and the central element of your tax policy is that it favours the rich, whether they are individuals or large companies, in the world where the exploitation of the earth's scarce resources and the destruction of climate change are primarily the responsibility of multinational companies, and this is the wrong direction. Despite this, the government continues on the path of self-destruction, which means reducing capital taxes. This is a downward competition that a nation state cannot win, because the multinationals compete with each other, and the contribution of these multinationals to the common, to the maintenance of public services, will be reduced, which people will have to make up for through taxes on labour income, and in Hungary, in particular through VAT. [[12.00]] Today, a multi-9 percent of his income is taxed, and even next year, the wages of a simple worker will be reduced by 45 percent. That's a five-fold difference. It's yelling! So you are trying to represent in this budget that large companies participate in a smaller part in the financing of public tasks, and you are still more concerned with the financing of these public burdens by the taxpayers and working people. On the other hand, LMP considers that the burden of work should be progressively reduced, which would be compensated by higher capital taxes and environmental use, by taxing wasteful consumption. This would make the distribution of burdens in Hungary much fairer. With regard to these tax laws, I think that many of the points in the bill before us reflect this wrong path that you have chosen: you are trying to lighten the burden of the multinationals and the rich, and I think that, on the other hand, it should be on the burden of the working people, because there is room for relief. Small businesses that are guaranteed to stay here should also make a substantial relief in the event of a crisis. I think it's very nice that if they reduce various micro-taxes by 2-3 percent, and it sounds very good, it is necessary, and as a small entrepreneur, I can say that taxes are merged, but let's not expect miracles from that. As long as this government represents that, in practice, multinationals are hardly involved in financing public tasks while in Europe our country is registered as a tax haven, we do not think that your tax system is fair. Yes, I think that it is in the interest of the multinationals to change the fact that, from 1 January 2020 onwards, the employment and labour costs conditions for the notified investments will cease to exist, so there is no need to create jobs for public money, nothing is expected, just serving multinational companies. I think it's another talkative element of your budget, and I think it's just another wrong direction. Typical changes include tax relief for employees of sports organisations. After the previous toaster change, which reduced taxes on athletes with hundreds of millions of incomes, it now also increases the income of people who smell sports at close range, provided that their salary is high enough. I would very much like to ask the Secretary of State or anyone who can answer this question: why should they have a lesser share in the burden of public transport, the burden of public transport? Why do we think they should be more endowed than, say, a skilled worker in any factory? In addition to supporting multis, the obvious winner of tax changes is the Fidesz Moonyard, which can be seen from the VAT reduction. Although the government recognised the need for a differentiated reduction in world record VAT, it failed to achieve it in the right direction or in the right way. 'Cause what's happening? After 90 percent of Hungarian tourism has been occupied by investors close to Fidesz, you will reduce the VAT on the accommodation. Which means what? It means... [[István Szilárd Németh: People are on a cheaper holiday! The president's gonna ring the bell.]] No, no! [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Mr. Secretary. The thing is, that's not what's happening. But I think we can do an experiment, I'm open to it. The thing is, it's been a long weekend, let's see how much we paid for the three days, two nights long weekends in early 2019, and see if at the beginning of the summer of 2020, when we will be hit with a 5% VAT instead of 18, so instead of 18, we'll have to pay 5% VAT for the same cost, whether anyone will pay less for the long weekend. I dare you to bet, Mr. Secretary, that these fees will not be reduced. On the other hand, and speaking of which, the reduction in VAT on basic food is not reflected in your tax policy. The segment of food that everyone should get from the poorest to the richest is cheap. [[Erik Bánki: Milk, meat, eggs! The president's ringing the bell.]] Oh, yeah... and you don't think basic food is part of vegetables, fruit, bean coffee? With all due respect, what you're saying and yelling, I can do this genre, so it doesn't bother me. [[A statement from the opposition.]] Sorry, don't take him in this direction. So what you're yelling is false, false and misleading, it's that simple. Because basic foods are a relatively broad product range, a product that satisfies our right to a healthy diet and our needs. On the other hand, the VAT reduction of the accommodation will not appear in this round. I think that, in general and overall, I can say three things, or practically one thing, that your tax system, as we have been getting used to in your administration, continues to be a loser of average wages or earners. This layer includes 70 percent of the working Hungarian people, the victims of the single-key tax, those who are hit by the world champion VAT, and they are the ones who often cannot make a living on their monthly income, even though they work three shifts on weekends. But they are also the losers of small businesses in Hungary, because the IRS strikes with extreme cruelty every little mistake in vain, my fellow Member. I think that if the Hungarian tax authority were only half as strict with the multinationals, we would not be here. And the victim of the Orbán system... [[Happy István: The LMP!]]
u2019-06-18-42	Congressman!
u2019-06-18-43	So the Orbán system is practically the victim of the whole nature, the surrounding environment and sustainable energy and resource management. Technically, we find that solar panels are subject to taxes, while batteries are hardly subject to taxes. Neither the low product charges are in our interests, and I think that the non-existent CO2 tax is also a very serious deficiency of your tax system. I think that your tax system is about living up to the future, and as such, I think that we will not be able to support it. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-18-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the Dialogue Group is Mr Sándor Burány. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-06-18-45	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me to respond at the beginning to some comments, all the more so, because it seems that the favorite sport of the governing parties is to rewrite history over and over again. I thought that was just outside the walls of Parliament, but now we have seen that this is the case within the walls of Parliament, in the Chamber, because they remember the initial phase of their governance very differently from the comments made by the pro-government representatives as it was. If we listened attentively to them and believed what they said, then we might believe that after 2010, the government started brutal tax cuts here, an unprecedented recovery in the economy, and an unprecedented reduction in the number of tax races. But the exact reverse of that was true. [[12.10]] For the sake of historical fidelity: After 2010, you did not reduce taxes, but raised taxes, primarily raising taxes on low incomes, with your first action. A personal income tax system was introduced that, when introduced, taxpayers, 80% of workers, did not represent a substantial tax reduction or even a substantial tax increase for most of them. The fact that this was so proves that at the time it was one of Fidesz's favourite sports to create a payroll team under the leadership of Antal Rogán, who was not interested in the bond business at the time, because they saw precisely that it was only through the wage increase imposed on employers that the tax increase that your representatives voted for in this Chamber could be weighted. And they might think that they have reduced the types of taxes, well, they are wrong, because after 2010, a bunch of new taxes were introduced, and compared to everything else, Hungarian taxpayers had to bear several types of taxes as a reminder: transaction fees, chips taxes, interest taxes and associates, to mention only one or two, so much so that the tax return, the size of the beer gravy promised before 2010, was swollen several sheets. [[Németh Szilárd István: How? I don't! It's a text message!]] And if we thought that there was only economic growth in the country after 2010, then I would like to remind you that, while the whole of Europe has come out of the crisis, your economic policy has brought Hungary into recession in 2012. You may not like to remember this, but it's still a fact. They are coming back from these tax increases now, and this recession has turned into economic growth, and they are now trying to make order in the tax races you have increased, and I have to say that in this tax law they are partly successful, because the tax laws that have been tabled do contain tax reductions and indeed contain steps towards a simpler tax system. The problem is, ladies and gentlemen, that the taxes on those whose taxes were raised after 2010 have not been reduced now, in this bill. On this, the proposed law, such a tax reduction, to reduce the tax on workers to whom it was raised in 2010, does not contain anything. I would like to address two kinds of taxes, all the more so, because they could be forward-looking, but there are some problems with them. Let's start with the VAT cuts. We all know that after 2010, you have raised the VAT to such a level that it has become a peak tax in Europe, and you are now trying to come back from it in such a way that, while not reducing the rate of general sales tax, you do so for certain services and products, in line with opposition proposals, as almost all opposition groups have previously called for a reduction in VAT on basic foods. However, we have to face the lesson that, contrary to the previous yellings, there are some products and services that you have reduced your VAT in vain, in the market, in shops, and at the price, it is not noticeable at all. I would just remind you that the VAT on pigmeat, although indeed decreased, has recently been published by the Hungarian Central Statistical Office, is nearly 10 percent more expensive than it was last year. Therefore, there is still a risk that the reduction of VAT on certain products or services will not appear at all in the VAT of the given service or product, and such a reduction in the tax and VAT rates of the accommodations, which, although it does not actually reduce the burden to 5 per cent but to 9 per cent, is still a significant reduction. The question is that the recipients of this service will feel anything, or they will walk like pork, that one day they will be happy to read that the price of the hotel VAT is falling, and they will conclude that they will then be on a cheaper holiday, and then when they go on holiday next year, they will be saddened and shocked to confirm that this was not the case, but that the price of the hotels even increased if necessary, because the market laws worked just like this. So what the ruling majority has done is supposed to be nothing more than that the profits of the property owners will increase, but it is not certain that the price of the accommodation will decrease at all. We welcome the reduction of taxes on some of the families. This is indeed a welcome step, and this should be welcomed even if the tax reduction that you are proposing for mothers with four children now represents only a few percent of the taxpayers. If a few tens of thousands of mothers lose their taxes because of this, they should also be happy. To be honest, joy would be complete if millions of taxpayers could detect tax reductions, not just a few percent of taxpayers. I also have to tell you that the direction you follow in the family support system is distorted and false. It is not from the devil at all, and we would support a family support system that combines individual tax incentives with raising family allowances. But that's not what you're doing. The family allowance has not been increased by a single forint since they were in government, but the tax benefits for families have actually been extended, only this has increased a previously unfair income difference in the country. The situation has now emerged that there are very rich families whose daily problems are, let's say, to buy a villa in Buda for 400 million or 800 million, as we have just read in today's news, whose tax relief may be hundreds of thousands of forints, and this tax relief alone is much greater than the total income of an average family in my constituency, Kőbány or Kispesten. It can't be fair to have a family support system in which I emphasize only the tax relief of the richest families, not the income, but the tax relief is higher than that of an average family in Budapest, a zone where people predominantly live in panels, not in a fork of hundreds of millions. This support system, this tax system, is bad, whether I look at businesses or look at workers, is bad. Despite all tax reductions, this tax system has created and continues to operate a system in which the largest companies enjoy the most tax, while the burden on small businesses is either not reduced or slightly reduced, in which the richest families receive the greatest tax relief, while the tax relief of low-income families is not substantially reduced. On one side there is an incredibly rich thin layer, and on the other side is the majority of workers, where the question is not what fork to buy, but the question is that from the family's total income, discounts here or there, we can pay the rent. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen. This is therefore a tax reduction, the elements of which are truly eligible, but it reflects a truth and social policy approach that has resulted in the whole country being split up and will increase this division in the future. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-06-18-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to Mr Imre Ritter, a German national representative, who will present the first sentences of his speech in his mother tongue and then translate it into Hungarian. Here you go, Mr. Speaker. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-18-47	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Im Namen des Parlamentarischen Ausschusses für Nationalitäten in Ungarn möchte ich Sie als Ausschuss-Vorsitzender und Repräsentant des Ausschusses herzlich begrüßen. Über den unter der Kennzahl T/6351. eingerechten Gesetzesänderungsvorschlag hat sich unser Ausschuss am 13. Juni 2019 geäußert. [[12.20]] Mr President, Dear House, On behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, as Chairman of the Committee and rapporteur for the Commission's opinion, I welcome you with respect. T/6351. On 13 June 2019 our committee put on the agenda the bill to amend certain tax laws and other related laws, initiated the detailed discussion of the bill and, as a related committee, established a common position on the House Rule 36. As defined in paragraph 5 of this Article. While our committee has not yet found a section directly affecting nationalities in the examination of this bill as a whole, all members of our committee and myself, as the chairman of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, are essential for our committee to join all draft laws which, either through referrals or amendments to be tabled during parliamentary proceedings, may affect the rights and interests of indigenous nationalities in Hungary. This is what we consider to be a priority in the legislative proposals to be submitted annually to amend individual tax laws and other related laws. As a typical example, I would like to mention that T/2931 was discussed by the Hungarian Parliament just six months ago in October-November 2018. the draft law relating to the obligations of the EU and amending certain laws on the subject of tax administration. Although this bill also did not contain parts of the issue of nationality at first reading, on the initiative of the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary, the House Committee has previously declared it a nationality agenda. Following a more detailed study of the bill, I reached CXVII of 1995 on personal income tax. Section 4 of Annex 1, which regulates tax-free benefits for each activity, of which point 12.1 (c), inter alia, the Klebelsberg Scholarship paid. It was then that the possibility of recommending the introduction of the tax and contribution exemption for the pre-prepared teaching scholarship. It followed the thought and added point (d) of point 4.12.1 of the SAY Act on tax exemption, which states that it is exempt from the grant granted on the basis of a tender in view of participation in the education of nationality educators. This successful amendment meant that some 45 percent less budget support is needed to pay the same net scholarships, and that there is a great deal of unnecessary work and additional costs to be saved, as there is no need to do a separate accounting for each scholarship per month, not to inform all scholarships separately about the accounting process, not to make tax and contribution returns to NAV every month, not to refer tax and contribution obligations to NAV every month, not to carry out NAV audits and take risks of this and so on, but simply to pay net scholarships every month. This amendment made it possible for us to launch the much less work-related scholarship system retroactively as early as 1 September 2018, so that it was possible for the National Council of Germans of Hungary to carry out this work as an administrator with the involvement of the other six concerned national minority self-governments. As of 1 September 2018, the National Education Teachers' Student Scholarship Programme started with the first-year children's educators, with 84 participants. This year, from 1 September 2019, we will be able to extend the scholarship system to all three degrees of national education, as well as to the first year of teaching, teaching, teaching and teaching. After the favourable assessment of our national minority budget needs in 2020, we hope that from 1 September 2020 to all three years of national education, as well as the first year of scholarship, plus mentors and all six years of education, which will be more than a thousand. If we had not joined last October the bill on the amendment of certain tax laws and other related laws, it would not have been declared a nationality item in advance, then we would not have had the opportunity to present this amendment, and I can say with great certainty that we would not have been able to start the minority educator scholarship programme. And if we are already at the time of the amendment of the law, let me also say that in October last year, when the amendment of the scope of the exemption of the Szja law was made, the meeting of the Hungarian minority committee was announced for Paks, together with a visit to the Paks nuclear power plant, so that we would not have been able to technically resolve that the amendment on the tax exemption of the scholarship was submitted by the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities. That is why we asked for the Ministry of Finance's help, and I would now like to publicly thank the Deputy Secretary of State Izer Norbert, whom we had consulted in person several times within days, and his colleagues in the Ministry for responding to our request, for their help, and for our amendment proposal they finally submitted to the meeting of the Legislative Committee. I thank you for your help on behalf of all today's students and, in particular, future national educators. I also said then, I have to say now, that ensuring national education, education, autonomy in education, the necessary increase in the number of education courses, the improvement of the quality of training - so as a tool for the scholarship for national education students, the most important and fundamental issue of the mother tongue, ethnicity culture and survival of indigenous ethnic minorities in Hungary. I will talk about this with regard to the Public Education Act and the Central Budget Law 2020 in the coming days. Mr President, Dear Parliament, After this brief detour and reflection, I would like to inform you in summary that T/6351. The Committee on Nationalities in Hungary is not expected to draft an amendment to the bill submitted, supports the proposed bill and proposes it to the Parliament. Finally, allow me a few more personal but important sentences. In the last four years, as a parliamentary advocate, I have only had the opportunity to express the opinion of our committee as the rapporteur on a case-by-case basis for the opinion of the committee on the issues directly relating to nationalities on the agendas that have been declared a pre-nationality item. After the election of last year, I can comment on any section of any item on the agenda and express my opinion and my comments as an independent Member of the Parliament. Needless to say, as one of the founding members of the Tax Advisor Club, as a tax expert and an auditor with a budget additional rating for 30 years, I have a great deal of follow-up to the various amendments to the tax law, and I am tempted to comment as a representative and even express my professional opinion on these issues in detail. [[12.30]] However, in recent years, we have made very serious efforts by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary to reach Parliament's consensus on issues of nationality, and we have succeeded in achieving that, in matters of nationality, there is an unwritten custom with all parliamentary factions and independent Members, that the previous and present Parliaments have always accepted the issues of nationality agreed with compromise, without political debate. I do not wish to risk this consensus to the slightest extent so that, with my professional opinion in my speech, I may be involved in a political debate or slipping into a situation which would jeopardise the unwritten customary right so far in matters of nationality. Therefore, I will not comment as a tempting representative, but of course, as a tax expert and auditor, I will accompany your comments and opinions with maximum interest. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihren Aufmerksamkeit!
u2019-06-18-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The general debate will be adjourned, continued and closed as the last item on the agenda of today's sitting. The general discussion of the proposal for a decision on the number of posts to be held at the Hungarian Defence Office is now taking place until closure. The government referral is H/6454. Number 2 is available on the House's IT network. I now give the floor to Szilárd Németh, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-06-18-49	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The law on defence states:. Defence is a national matter. Hungary builds on its own strength in maintaining and developing its national and federal defence capabilities: on the resources of its national economy, on the preparedness and determination of the Hungarian Defence Forces, on the involvement of law enforcement and other bodies, on the patriotic commitment and sacrifice of its citizens for the protection of their homeland, and on the cooperation and assistance of the Allied States and Armed Forces. The purpose of the present presentation is to propose to the Parliament a proposal that we can establish the number of posts that can be scheduled for the defence. In accordance with the current provisions of the Defence Act, it was necessary to review the adopted Parliamentary Decision of 2018 and to adopt a proposal under the submission. The proposal submitted contains the re-regulation of the positions of the defence in line with the decisions at government and wallet level by maintaining the 37 650 status adopted in the Parliamentary Decision of 2018. In the spirit of the above, the adoption of the proposal by the Parliament creates the achievement of the longer-term development objectives of the defence and defence and force development programme Zrínyi 2026, the necessary number of staff, as well as the extension of the capabilities of the defence based on non-peace and territorial principles, also makes it necessary to ensure organizational mobility. Dear fellow Members, We have to say that in 2010 the country had a total of 17 reserve members, from 2002 to 2010 the number of 45,000 authorised was below 29 thousand. The low point of the decline trend was achieved during socialist governance, in 2007, when the number of regular numbers did not even reach 23,500 who were allowed in the decision. Socialist-liberal governments knowingly dismantled military capabilities, knowingly split the number of soldiers, and knowingly destroyed the Hungarian Defence Forces, endangering the security of Hungarians and the independence of our country. On the other hand, the Government of Hungary is committed and will do everything in its power to support the task of our soldiers. In carrying out their duties, the Hungarian soldiers have demonstrated their courage, preparedness and commitment to their country on several occasions. At the heart of the program of defense and military development, the military development aims to establish a military career, to establish the status of soldiers and to ensure predictability, and to improve the conditions of service. The figures in the parliamentary resolution therefore show what we intend to achieve by 2026. In addition to the conservation and recruitment measures, the military technical development of defence in all areas has, of course, begun. Modernization means not only procurement of assets, but also ensuring that soldiers are constantly prepared to serve our country and protect the safety of Hungarian people and the independence of the country. New types of challenges have also emerged in a significantly changed security environment in recent years, such as hybrid warfare, which exploits the weaknesses of state defence legislation and the constraints adapted to the former security environment. Recently, the number of illegal border offenders has increased noticeably, so the government has decided to return our soldiers to serve at the borders of our country on 1 June, and the military should once again take part in border surveillance with a greater number and full capacity. The number of manoeuvring soldiers in three shifts is 650, the logistics tasks are performed by about 200 honvéds, and the support forces are 150 on the border, and once again a quota of the same size is ready in barracks to perform these border protection tasks within 24 hours. So we can say that the border is safe, the police and soldiers are doing everything in their power to comply with the Schengen legislation, while guaranteeing the safety of the Hungarian people. It should be pointed out that the parliamentary decision initiated concerns the determination of the maximum number of posts to be held in the defence organisation. Until 31 December 2018, the National Assembly established the detailed number of defence officers, including the volunteers, under the Defence Act. This public-law fund is changing from this year onwards, and now the flexible response to security challenges is guaranteed by the two-step system, which is also included in this proposal, by maintaining constitutional guarantees. The National Assembly therefore determines the number of posts that can be regularised in the defence, while the government decides on the number of posts that may be uploaded during a given period in the management of the operation of the defence. The available framework may be uploaded, but not necessarily charged. For the sake of greater clarity to my fellow Members, this means that, as a democratic principle, the Parliament determines the ceiling for the number of defences, but leaves the establishment of the actual necessary number in the discretion of the government, at the same time in the responsibility of the government. The maximum number of posts that can be regularised by the Hungarian Defence Office does not include the number of statuses of the Hungarian Defence Office, the number of posts of military personnel seconded from the staff of the Hungarian Defence Office to the Ministry of Defence and to the organisations belonging to the Minister's direct subordinate, as well as the number of voluntary reserve posts of up to 20,000 in special legal order, organised in military boards. Since the date of entry into force of the previous decision, due to legislative changes and decisions at the level of government and wallets, it has become necessary to re-establish the number of posts that can be regularised in the field of defence. The number of posts of the military will therefore be determined by a government decision with the number of posts to be filled. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I ask you to ensure your support in determining both the technical and defence numbers of the Hungarian Defence Office, which is leading in defending the country and ensuring the security of the Hungarian people. [[12.40]] With an authorised staff of 37 500 people, with a 2-percent GDP budget to 2024 which is expected by NATO, by continuing to increase the budget money spent on the security of the country, we will achieve with the programme of defence and force development in Zrínyi 2026, so that the Hungarian Defence Office will become the most modern and powerful military force in the region, thus ensuring the security, competitiveness, European freedom and prosperity of our Christian culture. Please support the bill here. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-18-50	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Here are the keynote speeches. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr György Hubay. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-06-18-51	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Allow me to give you a brief summary of the H/6454 on the number of posts that can be regularised at the Hungarian Defence Office. The substance of the proposal for a decision and the position of the Fidesz fraction. From the brief presentation of the Ministry of Defence, we learn that the aim of the bill is CXIII of 2011 on defence and the Hungarian Defence Forces and on measures that can be implemented in the special legal order. The amendment of the relevant point of Law No 17 of 1 January 2019 in force as from 1 January 2019. In addition, to establish the number of posts that may be held for defence, including the number of volunteers, concerning the powers of the Parliament. As one of the precedents of the decision proposal, it is important to note that, as a result of the amendment of the Defence Act, as of 1 January 2019, unlike the previous legislation, the Defence Act was amended by Article 19 of the Defence Act. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) (b), the National Assembly determines the number of posts that may be regularised by the defence, including the voluntary reserveers, but on the number of posts which may be uploaded during a given period, the National Defence Act 21. Paragraph 2 (2) (e) requires the Government to make a decision. In accordance with the provisions of the Defence Act in force, it has become necessary to revise the Parliamentary Resolution 25/2018 and to adopt a proposal according to its submission. The proposal before us includes the re-regulation by the Government of the Hungarian Defence Forces of 37 650 statuses adopted in the 25/2018 Parliamentary Resolution. If the proposal is adopted, the necessary framework for achieving the longer-term development objectives of the programme of defence and force development will be established. Furthermore, the expansion of the capabilities of the defence, based on time or territorial principles, other than peace, makes it necessary to ensure organisational space. It is important to point out that the proposal only applies to the number of posts that can be booked to the maximum level in the defence organisation. If part of the resolution proposal is taken into account, it can be seen that in point 1 the number of public care statuses not previously included in the Hungarian Defence Agency's central healthcare organisation will be accounted for as a reduction in the status of organisations excluded from the defence organisation, as well as the number of statuses providing residential care, which do not fall within the detailed breakdown of the Hungarian Defence Office. Overall, the change in the number of positions to be settled in the Hungarian Defence Office did not change the maximum number of persons with detailed breakdown according to the 25/2018 parliamentary decision. In point 2 of the resolution proposal, we can see that the maximum number of positions that can be regularised by the defence does not include the number of the Hungarian Defence Office's status as a reserve member, the number of posts of military personnel seconded from the staff of the Hungarian Defence Office to the Ministry of Defence and to the organisations of the Minister's direct subordinate status, as well as the number of posts of up to 20,000 volunteers in the military reserve tables relating to the special legal order. Point 3 of the proposal repeals Parliamentary Resolution 25/2018. In view of the positive objectives set out in the proposal for a decision, I do not wish to further detail their need, so I ask my fellow Members to support the proposal for a decision. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-18-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker for the Jobbik Group is Mrs Andrea Varga-Damm, who will make her speech here on the stand. We'll wait for Congresswoman to wake up. Thank you very much. Congresswoman, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2019-06-18-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Minister for Defence presented a resolution proposal to this House which was not necessary at all. I very much feel that these proposals have been put here recently to have cutting pictures and to have the Ministry of Defence in Parliament, or in some way to say that they are doing something. But, of course, I will explain my position as to why I think so. First and foremost, we must start with 25/2018. Parliamentary resolution, which was preceded by a debate, and we have already stated in this debate that we are very pleased that the number of frames is now 37 650, but in the span of about twenty years, there will be no chance that the Hungarian Defence Forces will rise to this number in some way. Even if, since then, the Parliament has made simple employees who work as secretaries in any system of defence, they must be classified as defence employees in order to at least approximate the number of people they can never achieve in life. I wish to stress that there is no political player in Hungary whose aim is not to protect our country, and since we are members of NATO, it is quite clear that in this organization, not only is our protection guaranteed in the event of any hostile interference, but we must also be part of the defence task system that is required of us in this organization and what we have undertaken. When you look at the title of Resolution 25/2018, it says there's a detailed breakdown of the number. The point of this was that, in addition to determining the number of posts, certain types of posts were included in a table and the specific size of the posts was set out in this Decision. The current proposal says that the decision will be repealed and will do nothing but keep the number of Hungarian defences at 37 650 in this new parliamentary decision. The only problem is that you forgot to tell me that this means that from now on the Hungarian Parliament has nothing to do with the number of people, and it has nothing to do with how many people can apply to different types of posts within the framework number. I would very much ask my fellow members of the Government to do so, if they are in such a supportive position to at least ask the Minister of Defence at his personal hearing this afternoon, I hope that if the parliamentary decision still had to include a detailed breakdown of the number in October, then why is this not in this resolution. In that case, you want to express that the representatives of the Hungarian Parliament, regardless of the party or opposition, will no longer have anything to do with the development of the frame numbers of the various positions within the 37 650 population? You forgot to answer that in your expo. The next factor, which I think we should talk about, is that this proposal refers to the justification for the 2018 CXIV. a law, which, as I said earlier, has, in fact, declared the use of ordinary civilians to be a defence employee. [[12.50]] There was no doubt for us, by the way, that this was for no other reason than to increase the number of people. But then we would like to ask you, given that you are not included in the explanatory memorandum or in the expoze, that the 2018 CXIV. In June 2019, the Parliamentary resolution has to be changed compared to 31 October 2018 and it has to be changed so that the detailed breakdown can be avoided, and since the number of numbers remains unchanged, we should again have to deal with this in this House by wasting money and time. Of course, I'm not surprised that Secretary of State doesn't sit between the lines and listen to what questions we're asking, but as in the expo...
u2019-06-18-54	Excuse me, Congresswoman, for a moment. [[To István Németh Szilárd, who is not in the place of the State Secretary:]] Mr. Secretary. Mr. Secretary. I'll ask you to take your seat, because they're talking to you. Thank you very much. [[István Szilárd Németh as he takes his place as Secretary of State: I listened! Dr. Laszlo Varga: Hahaha! Applause from the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP.]] Go on, Congresswoman.
u2019-06-18-55	Thank you very much. After the Minister of State has instructed us as the opposition that he is already trying to eliminate our misunderstandings in advance, I would like to say that there is nothing misunderstanding for us, it is simply that term technicians are not being applied precisely. It is a matter of putting together various legislative proposals, which, of course, for the good of the government, are presented here to the House, and it is voted on by the infinite goodwill and patience of the pro-government representatives, because it does not harm in the end. But let me ask you one thing, and if you're talking about how strong a country we are and how serious NATO is, then let's just say that we at least preserve its seriousness in defence legislation. It can be expected that when a bill justifies a change in a law and its rules justify that a new parliamentary decision should now be given, it would be expected, for example, to indicate in this justification which section of that law has brought new changes which would require a separate determination of the same framework number, since the 2018 CXIV. There is no such obligation in law. So the Minister of Defence himself came up with this idea that there is such a new obligation to set a number, referring to that place of law, but there was no provision in that which would justify changing the content of the original Parliamentary proposal and then a decision. [[István Szilárd Németh: Oh, my God, I shouldn't have sat back here!]] I would like to continue to talk about the fact that both the expoze and the explanatory statement have presented in part this programme of defence and force development in Zrínyi 2026, and we are beginning to talk about this as Columbo's wife, whom we never see. For what is presented as Zrínyi 2026, someone once read it, even if it is a layman, then at least he asks: it's okay, we're happy about it, but how are we going to do that? There are principles written in it, only and only principles. With principles, nothing can be done yet. In order to implement the principles, a system of instruments is needed. What means will I use? How do I do it, Mr. Secretary, according to your lecture, a modern army? Do I make a modern army by ordering completely outdated techniques that will be delivered in six years when they are already ten years outdated? Is this the development of forces? Is that the device system? No, please. Zrínyi 2026 is a wish concert, which unfortunately has no content, has not been filled in with a device system, a defence strategy, targets, positioning. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Targets?]] Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, don't laugh, the target is where I would like to go with an upgrade. I'm sure it's very difficult to understand, but I'm sure you'll be able to study for the next three years. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] So the target is where I want to go with an upgrade. [[Interview from the benches of Fidesz: Aim!]] No, target! You know? Target! We're not just using the target to kill someone, we're using it to figure out where we want to get to. So I'll keep going. The point is that 2026 is a very soundy phrase now, but it doesn't have any content. The content, whenever requested during the last year's legislative negotiations, is still not available, and the minimum expectation of a development of forces is to simulate certain situations, starting with operational plans, in order to develop the tool system of the development of forces. Today, it is about as if we were collecting the building material, buying the building material for a house we hadn't even started designing yet. So we have no idea what we're buying tools for, no idea what we're giving contributions to. In view of the fact that there is no change in the number of employees, even if the 2018 CXIV. In any way, a law introduced rules whereby the number of persons was changed, but the number of persons did not change, i.e. they did not increase or intend to reduce in any way, thereby making this Parliamentary proposal unnecessary. I'd like to respond with a few more words to the lectures made by the Secretary of State in the Expoze. I would like to say that we will not be able to fill the 37 650 population in life, unfortunately, because in Hungarian society it is still a good goal, so to say, to go to a training course, and they will receive money for it, so this is a very important thing, they will receive money, food and a castle, and they will acquire a skill, but they will not stay here for most of it after the training. That's the biggest problem. For example, this is what I would like to hear from the Minister and Minister of State in Parliament's walls, with what motivation they could use to ensure that the budget... if it costs money to train young people or candidates, then how can we possibly keep them, so that there will be more than just a party at the end. And it is not possible to go beyond that, even if Mr Secretary of State has given his speech with self-gratification as to how they are trying to motivate young people, for example, to go to military high school, given that from one year to the next, the number of candidates has decreased by 60 percent. So I'm sorry, we're constantly hearing about defense and patriotic education here, and they're putting forward different proposals to deal with the defense, and let's see what a fantastic job the Ministry of Defense is doing. I'd rather ask you quietly, there in the house and, by the way, with positive, truly motivating messages to society, how can you make what you're talking about a reality. I must say that, since the referral of this Parliamentary proposal was unjustified, and even this Parliamentary resolution proposal narrows down the content of the parliamentary decision voted on 31 October 2018, i.e. excludes and withdraws the definition of detailed breakdown from the competence of Members of Parliament, I will in no way suggest that my group vote for this. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-18-56	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-06-18-57	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for the details of the expozee and the points of the resolution proposal before us, which I would not repeat. I was shocked to hear from my better fellow Member that Varga-Damm Andrea climbs the pulpit, and then words like... [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: People don't climb...]] He'll use words... He's upstairs. Excuse me. The Hungarian uses such words... [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: It's okay, it's okay.]]
u2019-06-18-58	I think that this climbing up was unworthy. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: You climb...]]
u2019-06-18-59	He uses words in connection with the Hungarian Defence, such as frivolous, tangled, cluttered, unwarranted. This is a dangerous area, Congresswoman, and I think that once in his fifteen-minute speeches he could not speak of soldiers in the voice of respect, he once did not thank them for their service. The ministry they share in, for example, guarding our borders, and what they do there, that service. He couldn't comment on the defense bill in the tone of respect once. I think it's obviously a shame. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Only you speak in the voice of respect! It's terrible, and this KDNP, this Christian Democrat!]] The fact that you claim that we are talking about a number of people or a number that we will never achieve, well, it's very simple that we can't count on you or Jobbik for this job. I mean, you told me that it could never be achieved, it's a completely unrealistic goal. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: We're not enough for 37,000.]] You just got off the phone with me. [[The president's ringing the bell. Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: She talks to me all the time, of course I react!]] [[13.00]] So you're going to tell me that we're never going to achieve this framework because we can't count on you in this work. He also explains that there is no specifics in the., Zrínyi 2026, when, even from the time of replacement, through the voluntary reserve system, through the defence camps, the specific development of forces, training-machines, helicopters, reconnaissance airplanes, bus production, there are a lot of specifics in the development of the Zrínyi 2026, which should have been read to you about what is in it. What is most shocking is that Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm worked in the Ministry of Defence in 2010, so she could see exactly what the destruction of the Balliberal Government had achieved in terms of defence between 2002 and 2010, because in 2010 she saw the state of the Hungarian Defence Service in the Ministry, she saw that between 2002 and 2010, Balliberal governments bled out this military, dramatically reduced the number of defences, and tried to eliminate the honour of the defence, while completely exposing the country to foreign interests. Ferenc Gyurcsány's governance can not only be triggered by the amazing debt of the country or the closure of hospitals and schools, but also by the conscious reduction of the Hungarian Defence Forces and the conscious weakening of the country's defence capabilities. This is a historical sin committed by Ferenc Gyurcsány and his socialist principle friends, which may not have been felt in our daily lives at the time. But think about what would have happened if Hungary had been affected by the migration crisis in such a self-armed, bled and severely weakened state; think, fellow Members, how the Hungarian Defence Office could have responded then. Mr. Secretary of State has also mentioned that it is a talkable number that in 2010 the reserve soldier was 17 in the army. Now we're talking over 8,000. It is very important and Hungary's strength is shown that by 2024 we will have reached the level of defence funding required by NATO, i.e. we will spend 2% or more of GDP for this purpose. One more piece of data. In 2002, the army consisted of 45 thousand, whose number was reduced to a low point during the eight-year socialist amok run, and in 23 950 the socialist politicians maximized this number. That's why the raise was very important. Last December the National Assembly decided; now the National Assembly can confirm the framework number on this 37 650, which is already 13 600 more than the 2010 framework number. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] And obviously the government and Parliament made the right choice when we decided in 2015 that our soldiers would receive a 50 percent higher salary. I think that this was also felt in the April 2018 election when the Hungarian people said that security is the first for them, and they consider it important to have a strong army for Hungary, so that our soldiers can survive in disaster situations, in a migration crisis or in any security situation. I think that what we are talking about here is that in the voice of respect and thanks, we must speak to the Hungarian Defence Staff and their soldiers in order to show our appreciation. We are working to achieve a program of military development that can make the Hungarian Army the strongest army in the region. We're working to keep the military's reputation growing. In the meantime, opposition politicians in Brussels, for example, want to transfer the rights of border protection to others, even though the Hungarian soldiers, together with the Hungarian police, are perfectly fit for this task, as they have proved that on land the border can also be protected from the migration invasion. We know that, and that is precisely why the Fidesz-KDNP faction supports this proposal, that the Hungarian Defence Office is one of the most important safeguards for the security of Hungarian people and the sovereignty of the country. We must also say that Hungarian soldiers are also honoured and respected abroad, with international recognition. In any mission our soldiers participate in, they are always spoken of at the highest level of respect and recognition. We obviously support this government's defence policy. This is the career model, the wage increase, the development of forces together, the emphasis on young people, the focus on defence camps, patriotic education and reinforcements is a welcome direction, which should continue in the coming years. That is why we have achieved in these nine years that today the balance of defence is positive, not negative, as under socialist governments, so obviously this bill or proposal for a resolution will be supported by our faction. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-06-18-60	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. I salute my fellow Members. I give the floor to Mr László Varga, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2019-06-18-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I've been looking for the genre of this whole debate that's going on here, and I've been thinking about it a lot. But first of all, let me refuse, obviously I do not have to protect Andrea Varga-Damm, but I think that what my fellow Member Nacsa said about her here is completely unworthy. I think, as an opposition representative, Andrea Varga-Damm went up there, went up to the pulpit and formulated her thoughts on what you put on the table here. I don't think you've been more specific about the proposal than you have. Obviously, who is following this debate from mediation, is likely to find it difficult to determine what might be in this concrete proposal, because there has been little talk about it here by some pro-government speakers. The fact is that it may be possible in a general debate to talk about the situation of the Hungarian Defence Forces in general, but it is obvious from the previous speeches that we are talking more about such a more political proposal for the media, the Fidesz media empire. Probably in public TV and hundreds of other media you will be able to meet these success stories, but obviously the presentation contains more narrow and dry questions. My fellow Member Nacsa said that they thank me for the proposal for a resolution that I understand. I suppose they also thanked the 18th Autumn, which contains very different regulations, different logic, more powers than Parliament. It wasn't that long ago, let's say, six months ago, it was accepted. At the time, there was not an extremely innovative proposal that is now on the table. What I can tell you is that, of course, I can say, on behalf of the group, that the work of the soldiers, the defences, are deeply respected, that they are doing a very sacrificeful work for all of us, often in difficult circumstances and in difficult existential circumstances. Sometimes conditions are basically lacking, which is why they deserve more from the government, that is our conviction. But some of the sentences are also about the presentation because I think there is a fundamental problem here with this proposal, which is why this proposal cannot be supported. The fact that the number of statuses that can be regularised in the military, this 37 650 people, has already been established by this particular October parliamentary resolution, has already been said by everyone. This Decision does not lay down anything else. However, previous decisions also included a set of data showing the authorised size of the stock groups. In other words, the previous parliamentary resolutions left several rights here with the Members of Parliament, leaving more rights with the Parliament. Today, this proposal leaves only the total number of regular statuses at the National Assembly. The rest will be determined by a government decision, as Mr Secretary of State has said. The first thing you could say is that it's obviously technical, it doesn't matter that much. But they did change their minds compared to last fall. In addition to saying that this is a flexible response, this is obviously an opportunity for you to put your propaganda on the table here. However, I would like to say that it is not possible to agree with this reduction in the parliamentary authority. Obviously, even in relation to the number of individual groups of personnel, officers, petty officers and crews, a series of data was already included in this resolution, I think, that is why it is now being taken into the government's jurisdiction, and it is planned to establish this with a government decision because there is a possible shift in this ratio, which may, where appropriate, involve conflicts, and obviously, in relation to a government decision, this can be done in greater secrecy, more secretly from the public, or more quickly to deal with conflicts. [[13.10]] Could the question be why, by the way, the number of individual groups will change, to officers, to petty officers, or to reduce significantly? That is what I think we should be talking about, and this is what I think the Secretary of State should justify, on the specific agenda, why this is necessary at all, because this flexibility sounds good, it only has been governed for nine years, and so far it has not occurred to them that it would be more effective to deal with this issue, and I think they have now come to the conclusion that I say that a similar proposal for a resolution was discussed by Parliament six months ago, and they did not think so at that time. So once again, I would like to say that, especially because of this situation, our group and myself cannot support this proposal. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Lajos Korózs applauds.]]
u2019-06-18-62	Thank you very much, Congressman Varga. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. If you wish to speak on behalf of the authors, István Németh Szilárd, State Secretary, I give you the floor. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-06-18-63	Thank you very much. We've got this resolution ahead of us, a few sentences. I told him in the expo, two pro-government politicians told me what it was all about. Technically, the explanation is at least three times as much as the text itself, and in this it is quite clear that there are all the questions asked that we have heard here in the rivalry of the two parties who achieved 6 percent results. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] So I understand, I fully understand frustration on both sides, but I think [[Dr. László Varga intervenes.]] that the issue of Hungarian defence, the number of Hungarian defences, is worth much more than being the victim of a party contestant. I started by quoting from the law which determines what the Parliament's task is to determine the number of seats, so, if possible, when determining the ceiling, and since then, according to the legislative change, what the government is supposed to do to allow this ceiling, which we would like to achieve by 2026, to be temporarily filled. This, I think, must be clear to everyone who has sat here in Parliament and adopted this law, and we have all sat here, and we have all adopted this law, so we do not need to look for an explanation. And I think that in itself is a beautiful moment when the better-looking Congresswoman, Andrea Varga-Damm, who lived through the years 2002-2010, who saw how deceitful and planned the entire Hungarian Defence Forces have been tossed out, with the entire military capabilities being halved, now at a rising number of people who are responsible for all of this. She comes with Agnes Vadai on weekends [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] At the end of the year, here in Parliament, there are two people doing the show, and Ferenc Gyurcsány has made an alliance for the next period, but obviously they have to explain it themselves. Once again, I would like to draw everyone's attention to those who have just vowed that they will not vote in favour of this, so this proposal for a resolution, the essence of which is the definition of a ceiling of 37 650 people, the security of Hungary, the sovereignty of Hungary, the establishment of the frame of the Hungarian defence and military development, so that they do not do so. Don't tell me this national case, you don't want to make this a party politics thing. So once again, I would ask everyone, not only the pro-government representatives, but also those sitting in opposition benches, to consider whether or not to vote in favour of this parliamentary resolution. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-18-64	Thank you very much, Szilárd Németh State Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, Following a line between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Slovak Republic at the common state border of the two countries, Drégelypalánk and Ipolyhídvég a general debate on the draft law on the publication of an agreement on the construction of the road Ipoly Bridge and related facilities between municipalities until closure. The government referral is T/6450. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr László Mosóczi, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-06-18-65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Hungarian-Slovakian bilateral transport relations have developed rapidly in recent years. As a result of this process, at the end of May this year in Révkomárom, the ministers of the two countries concluded an agreement between Drégelypalánk and Ipolyhídvég on the construction of a road bridge and related facilities on the Ipoly river. The purpose of the bill currently on the agenda is to incorporate the agreement signed with the Slovak party into the Hungarian legal order. Pursuant to the Act on Procedures for International Contracts, it is necessary to publish the Agreement at a legal level. In the planned crossing point there was a bridge, similar to many other points of the Ipoly Valley, as indicated by the name of the village of Hídvég. In this area almost every village had its own bridge, where farmers could pass through their land on the other shore. A stone bridge was built between Drégelypalánk and Ipolyhídvég settlements in the place of the medieval wooden bridge in the early 19th century, which was destroyed during the Second World War. Since the interoperability of borders in the Hungarian-Czechoslovak border region has largely ceased, the bridge has not been rebuilt in the second half of the last century, local relations have been interrupted. In the framework of the contract we have just negotiated, the Hungarian and Slovak parties have agreed that the relationship will be rebuilt at the site of the old bridge. On the basis of the agreement, the Hungarian and Slovak parties will jointly bear the investment costs associated with the construction of the bridge as a joint facility on an equal footing. The selection of the contractor carrying out the construction of the joint bridge is carried out by the body responsible in Hungary, according to the provisions of the public procurement law in force in Hungary. The construction and renovation of buildings and roads connected to the bridge is carried out by both parties on their own side. The construction costs of the bridge and related facilities are planned to be covered by the European Union Interreg programme. Dear Parliament, In recent years, Hungary and Slovakia have concluded a series of contracts such as this, which will gradually build infrastructure links between regions separated from each other for many decades. These projects of local importance are primarily for the benefit of border communities and improve the quality of life of those living there. Only in the last year has four crossings been jointly decided on the border rivers. The transport connections will also be improved by large-scale investments such as the construction of the new Duna Bridge in Komárom, the full-fledged motorway link between Budapest and Bratislava next year by expanding the M15 motorway into a motorway. By 2021, the motorway connection between the Hungarian capital and Košice will be completed by handing over the final phase of the M30. By discussing and adopting the current bill, Parliament can assist in creating another valuable joint project. I would ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the proposed bill and to support the publication of the agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Slovak Republic on the common state border, Drégelypalánk and Ipolyhídvég in Slovak Ipel'ské Predmostie settlements on the road Ipoly bridge and related facilities. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-18-66	Thank you, Secretary of State Mosóczi. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Fenyvesi, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. [[13.20]]
u2019-06-18-67	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The building of the bridge linking Drégelypalánk and Ipolyhídvég was already launched in 2011 for a civilian initiative to collect signatures. However, the Ipoly bridges linking the disconnected areas and the motherland have a far-reaching history. They exist or do not exist Hungary XX. He testifies to the fate of a century-old vexed. As known, 47 bridges once connected the two shores of Ipoly, but in the '50s, this number dropped dramatically. Until recently, there have been four bridges serving the people living along Ipoly. Between 1938-1945 the environment of the bridge in question became part of Hungary again, according to the first Vienna decision. The bridge between Drégélypálánk and Ipolyhídvég was blown up in World War II has not been rebuilt until now. The Hungarian-Slovak border section of about 660 km is one of Europe's longest border sections. Renewal of the transport links that have been interrupted in the last century is hampered by the fact that the Danube and Ipoly separate the two countries over a distance of nearly 250 kilometres. The agreement on the reconstruction of the bridge linking Drégelypalánk with Ipolyhídvég is the fourth Hungarian-Slovak contract in one year, which was born to build border bridges. Thanks to the new road bridge, more efficient transport will be ensured in the region, mainly for residents who drive by car between their workplace and their place of residence and can boost tourism in the given settlements with a simpler approach. The road bridge will be used by passenger and truck cars not exceeding 3.5 tonnes. A bridge is always in the interests of the affected regions and residents. Please support the adoption of the international treaty. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-06-18-68	Thank you, Congressman Fenyvesi. I now give the floor to Mr János Bencsik, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2019-06-18-69	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Perhaps it is a little symbolic that, as Trianon approaches his 100th anniversary, we must now discuss such a matter together. It is known to all of us that the peace dictatorship of 100 years ago was deliberately created by the winning powers in such a way that Hungary's natural borders, railway nodes, and major traffic nodes would be cut off from them in the new truncated country, and the new truncated home would be poorer as far as possible, with as few decisive rail and road nodes as possible. As has been said here in the presentation, it is a symbolic matter and an area that has been connected by a bridge for centuries; even in the Middle Ages there was a bridge, and even the people who lived here belonged to a parish, so a region that was divided by the artificial state border with the Trianon peace dictatorship and later in the Paris peace treaty closing World War II, which created a region for centuries. As was said in the presentation, the retreating German troops blew up this bridge during World War II. Since then there has been no direct connection, so the Hungarians living here in Drégelypalánk had to travel more than 10 kilometers if they wanted to cross the border. So now both the Slovak and Hungarian states are paying off their old debt by building this bridge. What was not mentioned in the presentation, however, is that in the spring of 2017 there was already a conference in the end of Ipolyhíd, where the Hungarian and Slovak authorities consistently stated that it was a national strategy and a national economic priority, since the two bridges would not only serve the best possible and more flexible supply of labour flows, the freest possible flow of labour, but also the strengthening of cultural and social relations between the two cities. It's been two years since this announcement. We do not know what kind of background negotiations, discussions have taken place in the last two years, and what is even more disturbing is that we do not know when this announcement will result, or if, in this regard, my fellow Members of Parliament or of the Government can say something concrete about when this bridge will become a reality, when it will be built, or when it will be planned to be handed over, we would thank you. In addition to the importance of roads, we need to talk about the importance of railways in this current law. For the current budget plan for 2020, I have tabled an amendment aimed at facilitating rail interoperability between Hungary and neighbouring countries as well as roads. We believe that if we are to see economic links boosted, we must also improve rail traffic, rail interoperability, in addition to road traffic. We should also point out that, although, as said between Hungary and Slovakia, there has been a rather intensive dialogue in recent years regarding the opening of new bridges, unfortunately, in the case of Southern Hungary and Transcarpathia, the picture is not quite as rosy. In South and Transcarpathia, new border crossings should be opened in several places. In Transcarpathia, for example, without the need for completeness between Nagypalad and Kispalad, or as my fellow Member Csaba Gyüre recently indicated in a speech to Parliament, there is a long-standing demand between Salóka and Tiszaszentmárton for residents to be a direct border crossing, but also for the crossing between Hetyen-Tisakerecsen. In addition, we should take into account the fact that the border crossings that have already been built are operated in such a way that they can truly fulfil the goal that they must fulfil as a border crossing. I am thinking here that, for example, the border crossing between the Tiszasziget and Gyala in the South is an old request of the people there to have a 24-hour, 24-hour pass, and an old debt to the two countries that the conditions for this are not met. But I could also mention here in relation to Ukraine-Hungary the Tap-Zahony border crossings or the Asztély-Beregsurány border crossings. Those who regularly travel or commute in these regions know that there are not uncommon lines of 6-8 or even 10 hours, and this makes it completely impossible for residents travelling either for work or for private or tourist purposes. I think, and I just wanted to draw your attention to the fact that it's not enough to build border crossings, new roads or new bridges. It is also necessary to ensure that these completed border crossings and new border crossing nodes are operated to the satisfaction of the border residents of both countries. In summary, I can say that I think that it is in our common interest to ensure in the Carpathian Basin that relations between fragmented Hungarian communities are as easy and as simple as possible, and that we will therefore support this proposal from Jobbik. Although it does not belong more closely to the proposal we are discussing here, I have to mention, for a few words, that when the Hungarian-Slovak relationship and bilateral relations are put in order, the Hungarian government is always an example of the gas pipelines under preparation, the transfer of new bridges and roads, when it wants to demonstrate how good the Hungarian-Slovak relationship is. Unfortunately, however, ladies and gentlemen, there is no progress between the two countries in far more serious and more serious matters. In fact, not only is there no progress, but there is a concrete recovery. It is enough to refer here to the Beneš Decrees, which identify the Hungarians in the Highlands as a collective criminal nation and as a people; to the Beneš Decree, with which Slovakia was able to become a full member of the European Union in Hungary, and which has since then been unilaterally indicated by the Slovak party that they do not consider it necessary to revise or repeal it. However, it could be mentioned that the case of citizenship, which explicitly prohibits dual citizenship. Zsolt Semjén, Deputy Prime Minister, said that the Hungarians from the Highlands should come over in secret, under the law, and take up citizenship here in Hungary, and we will not give them up. [[13.30]] I think that these cases are as far away as possible from what would make it possible to say that the relationship between the two countries is forward-looking and good. But here is the still unsolved language law, the news about the closure of Hungarian schools in the Highlands, or the restriction of the singing of the Hungarian anthem in the last period. I think, fellow Members, that it makes sense to build bridges or to build bridges in the first place if we are confident that we can connect these regions, which are currently inhabited by Hungarians, on both sides of the border. But if there are no Hungarian people, there will be no Hungarian language, culture, heritage, people with Hungarian identity on the other side of the border, if their existence is simply made impossible by the neighbouring countries and they are absorbed by violent assimilation, then the construction of these bridges can serve only economic purposes. That is why I would like to ask you and ask the Government to take on important national policy and national strategy issues, which, where appropriate, involve conflict, which, where appropriate, involve a stronger representation of national affairs, and to put these matters on the agenda, both in bilateral relations and in the Hungarian-Slovak Joint Committee meetings and in all areas of diplomacy. For this, Jobbik representatives, as they have done in the last nine years, will provide all the help they will need in the coming years. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-18-70	Thank you, Congressman Benchik. I now give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2019-06-18-71	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond in a few sentences to the sentences spoken by my better fellow Member. We agree on a lot of things, for example, that it is important that in the future the countryside, the Hungarian countryside, Hungarian schools, parishes, communities, kindergartens should be loud with Hungarian words as well. I believe that in the last nine years, the government has launched a number of programmes aimed at this precisely, so that in the future the Hungarians in the Highlands will continue to maintain their identity, but they will be able to live and prosper from the mother country, including the kindergarten building programme, church subsidies, the economic development programme or several cross-border initiatives aimed at them, and will help us to interpret the Carpathian Basin area as a single national space, not to mention symbolic decisions. I may have found the truth halfway, because I think the truth is part of the fact that there has been a great deal of progress and progress in Slovak-Hungarian relations over the past period, but there are still questions, issues to be settled and open questions, and we agree on that. But for example, our cooperation in the Visegrád Group, or when Slovakia first offered to help us stop illegal migration or in a number of cases in which we were able to act together, all of them indicate improved links. This is not a closed process, there is still room for improvement, and the Member is right to say that there are some issues that still need to be put on the agenda in the future, not only because they have been on the agenda for the past twenty or thirty years, but because it is important that we resolve them. In our view, the Hungarian national community in Slovakia is a resource between the two countries, and it also represents a resource in Slovakia, and this fact does not weaken, but strengthens our alliance. We therefore support the fact that as many border crossings open at the Hungarian-Slovak border, as many road and rail bridges connect the two countries. Since 2010, under the government of Fidesz-KDNP, eight new border crossing points have been opened at the Hungarian-Slovak border, which proves that we are committed to interoperability of borders, strengthening Hungarian-Slovak relations and strengthening cross-border Hungarian-Hungarian relations. Obviously, we believe that the Carpathian Basin is not just a geographical unit, a mere set of individuals living in different countries, but a living community that must be rebuilt by XX. After the destruction of the century. The only way Central Europe can be strong again is by filling our country with content, connecting our countries with bridges, railways and motorways. It is important to note that Hungary is also an attractive tourist destination, and more and more tourists are arriving from the northern direction, Slovakia and Poland, which proves that new connections are needed for tourism, both for tourists and for the tourism service sector. This obviously also improves our regional relations system and our commitment to the V4 Alliance, which is the most successful and strongest alliance in Europe today. Nor is it a last resort that, with this investment, the county of Nógrád is also given a major development and development opportunity, and the region can also benefit from the cross-border economic development potential. We know that Hungary's longest border section is the northern, 677 kilometres on the Hungarian-Slovak border section, where 33 border crossing points currently exist. In 2014, a very high level agreement was reached between the two governments to increase the number of border crossings. Thus, with the entry into force of the current agreement before us, the construction of the fourth Ipoly Bridge will also be possible, and in the coming years a new road bridge in Komárom and the motorway link in Rajka will be handed over, as well as two railway connections that were previously terminated will be restarted. There is also a ferry connection. We consider transport relations between the two countries to be important and desirable in the interests of national policy, national strategy, economic, regional cooperation in Central Europe and tourism, perhaps also in this order, as I have said, so it is clearly in the first place in national policy and national strategy. Therefore, the KDNP fraction supports the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-18-72	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. I now give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2019-06-18-73	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, With a very short sentence, I can arrange a part of my contribution, as the Hungarian Socialist Party's faction supports the presentation. We are doing this because there is indeed a growing demand for the development of infrastructure in the border region, so any initiative that serves this purpose is a saving initiative, including the expansion of the number of crossings, or any other such infrastructure development. What I would like to say on this point is also a little inspired by what the speakers before me have said, perhaps there are questions. Orbán said a few years ago that he actually promised that sensitive matters would now be on the agenda with Slovakia. We see that these sensitive matters are still not on the agenda and clarified in relation to Slovakia. I understand the strategy that I only remember the beauty, that this is a rather pragmatic approach from the position of government, and in many cases this could be welcomed if it were not for you who constantly criticized the former socialist governments for the fact that the former foreign ministers or even the prime ministers sought a pragmatic relationship with Slovakia. I remember that when Bajnai Gordon met Prime Minister Fico, what Fidesz demanded, what subjects should be put on the agenda, what conflicts should be resolved at a meeting like this. Now it seems that every time we speak on such bilateral issues, the problems are actually left out of these questions, and as I have just said, only the nice ones would be remembered by the Fidesz and KDNP Members. Therefore, let me say some of the problems, Lőrinc Nacsa said that I had written myself to make the area loud with Hungarian words. For example, this would require, let us say, that the education law should not be rewritten in such a way that it would be unfavourable for the Hungarian minority, or that Hungarian teachers should not be banned in the course of further training, or that it should not be a problem during the course of Csallo that education in state language can be ordered on a compulsory basis under the adopted law if any Slovak needs arise. These are all logical decisions on the side of a Slovak national parliament, but it certainly puts the Hungarian minority and the situation of education in difficult circumstances. [[13.40]] The same question would be the issue of dual citizenship, for example, since since the entry into force of this law, since 2010, since the regulation banning double citizenship, 2831 citizens have been deprived of Slovak citizenship. Most of this is Czech citizenship, almost 700, but now I wouldn't care about anyone else because of the admission of Hungarian citizenship 114 Hungarian citizens have been deprived of their Slovak citizenship. There was a promise on your part earlier that they would try to resolve this issue in relation to Slovakia and even in relation to Ukraine, but I would now remain in favour of negotiations with the Slovak party; so in Hungarian, what has happened in the past period, that this issue has not even been put on the agenda at all or resolved in some form. Once again, 114 Hungarian citizens have lost their Slovak citizenship because of this rule. Then I'd like to mention a symbolic case to ask smaller and bigger questions. With the patronage of Prime Minister Pellegrini, in addition to the protest of the Hungarian community, in the presence of representatives of the party of the extremist Kotleba, the statue of the Slovak national builder Štúr was inaugurated in Párkány on 12 May, and this statue was placed on the Danube bank of the city inhabited by 71 percent of Hungarians despite the fact that the local body of representatives did not agree to establish it. I think there's still a little diplomatic task here that deserves attention from the point of view of the problems. But I could also mention the meeting of the Hungarian-Slovak minority committee in Bratislava on 20 February. We are also pleased to be convened, because this has not always been the case in the past period, that this Joint Committee has met regularly, but, for example, I do not know, my fellow Members know for sure that the MKP has not been invited by the Slovak side to these negotiations, saying that it is not a parliamentary party, and they are not interested in the MKP, and that as a member of the Hungarian delegation, the MKP has been able to participate in the meeting and work of this Slovak Joint Committee, which, I think, also does not confirm that there is no problem that should not be solved in this relation. Just as it is a huge problem that may have been referred to by my fellow Member Nacsa, the number of Hungarians in Slovakia. Although you said that we consider the Hungarian minority living there as a resource, in some respects this statement is correct, but it is certainly a warning sign that the number of Hungarians in Slovakia is decreasing alarmingly, so it has started to lose weight in recent years and assimilation has accelerated significantly. In 2001, I would just like to quote exactly, 521 thousand people declared themselves Hungarian; in 2011, which was still almost eight years ago, there were only 458 thousand people left. And here, as a result of the decline, experts indicate the acceleration of assimilation, emigration and a drastic decline in childbearing as a trigger. I think these are questions we need to talk about. It would also be worth talking about here, within the framework of Parliament, whether it deserves an independent item on the agenda, how the Hungarian government of the Carpathian Basin can best serve the Hungarian government. Examples show that it does not always depend on the amount of money, and it is only that it succeeds in helping to thrive in the homeland in some form, but it often also matters what form, efficiency, method and how we spend the increased funds across the border. I'm sure it's very important to build a hockey academy or a football field, by the way. This may contribute a little less to the prosperity of the homeland than, where appropriate, to education, economic relations, and many other things. So, overall, I am obliged to mention this at this item on the agenda because such a more comprehensive item on the agenda on this issue has not yet appeared on the House's table. I hope this will happen later, and then we can talk a little bit about these sources and these really a little bit more serious issues, one of which, of course, is infrastructure development, but the other, what the Hungarian government would require from the Hungarian taxpayer to treat Hungarians as a resource. Nevertheless, I would like to finish this presentation as I started, with the support of the MSZP faction, of course. Mr President, thank you very much for this opportunity.
u2019-06-18-74	Thank you very much, Congressman Mesterházy. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No further comments were received. The general debate is closed. I now give you the floor, if you wish, to the author, Secretary of State László Mosóczi.
u2019-06-18-75	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I was happy to listen to the comments, because who builds a bridge, builds a future, and we can provide the Hungarians with such bridges. I am just confirming the comments of the Members that we are not only building bridges on the Hungarian-Slovak border, not only on the Danube and Ipoly, but also on motorways, the M15, the M30, and, as has been mentioned, the development of railway links along the border is also on the agenda. We plan to restart passenger traffic on a number of railway lines where we are currently taking a break or negotiating with Slovakia on the restoration of the railway line between Drégelypalánk-Polyság. This way the Budapest-Zólyom direct rail connection can be created. Thank you again for your comments, and I hope that I will be able to ask Parliament's decision on many other similar projects. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-18-76	Thank you, Secretary of State Mosóczi. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. A general debate on the bill amending certain laws relating to Hungarian citizenship will follow until closure. The government referral is T/6455. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Tuzson, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the item on the agenda.
u2019-06-18-77	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The bill before us will amend certain rules on the acquisition of citizenship. We are talking about legislation, both by our Fundamental Law and by the 1993 LV. a question governed by law, and which is quite stable regulation in Hungarian case law. We have few laws that we rarely change. This also shows that the regulation of citizenship is a stable regulation on a good basis. However, when we amend these rules, there are usually rather comprehensive and large changes. This was the case in 2011 when simplified localization helped to bring together the nation, the Hungarian nation, through citizenship. We are talking about a very important issue, because there are still those who doubt the good nature of this regulation and who believe that this is the fundamental thing to unite the nation and I think that it is not appropriate for all Hungarians. They are the ones who argued on 5 December 2004 that extending Hungarian citizenship is a mistake and that Hungarian citizenship should not be extended. They erected a wall between Hungarian and Hungarian, erected a wall, and they are the ones who support immigration almost the most vehemently in Europe in the future, in the current period. The current regulation is in line with one of the basic objectives of the government, on the one hand, the commitment, which means the unification of the Hungarian nation and the protection of the rights of the Hungarian people, and that the Hungarian people must be guaranteed, regardless of where they live, the benefits of reducing the administration. We have just discussed a bill on a reduction in administration. This proposal also leads to a reduction in administration in certain cases when a person wants to receive his Hungarian citizenship either through naturalisation or re-introduction. [[13.50]] The naturalised and re-established Hungarian citizen will be entitled to receive an ID card on his own initiative, together with all his or her other personal documents after the oath and pledge, so that this right also means that every Hungarian citizen can have an ID card. And if he resides in Hungary, then this rule was already a regulation. So this practice is extended to Hungarian citizens living abroad. One-stop shop will also be possible for Hungarian citizens, so all those who acquire Hungarian citizenship with simplified localization and can submit their application for change of name, their application for registration of addresses or their application for other official certificates by means of a one-stop shop. They can therefore also receive permanent IDs in this form. These amendments act in the direction of rationalisation in Hungarian legislation, and they also serve to give a positive picture of Hungary, the functioning of the Hungarian state, and the Hungarian administration through naturalisation or simplified naturalisation. A very important change, which was also a practical problem with the IDs, was that, in accordance with previous practice, the facial image was not taken electronically, but had to be attached to the various documents on paper basis in these cases. This is obviously not sustainable at this age, and instead of paper documents, the current proposal contains the need to switch to an electronic photograph, which will improve quality on the one hand and simplify on the other. The amendments will, of course, increase security and the effectiveness of control, because in the event that this photograph is taken at the time of the application, it is possible that when the oath is taken by the new Hungarian citizen or the vow is made, his identity can be fully verified, since the photo will be there before the mayor or the head of the foreign representation, and if he is unable to identify the person about the identity of the person or if he has doubts about the identity of the persons, this will immediately constitute an obstacle to the acquisition of citizenship. This is a significant thing, because it is very important that we succeed in preventing a person from acquiring Hungarian citizenship by deceiving the authorities. After all, in the event that a person acquires Hungarian citizenship, the institution of appeal is only a withdrawal of citizenship, and this is a much longer procedure, which takes quite a long time, and until then, of course, he can exercise the rights which belong to a Hungarian citizen, even though this person has obtained this citizenship in a fraudulent way. These were the main elements of the amendment, but there are other elements that also lead to the amendment of the fundamental law. These are generally technical amendments, but they help to apply the law and have been included in the current legislation on the basis of practical experience. These include, for example, clarification of residence arrangements. Such a provision is also the regulation on the language skills of persons with limited capacity, which was not previously necessary to justify, therefore, the verification of language skills, in order to obtain Hungarian citizenship. This rule, i.e. proof of language skills, is also introduced in the regulation of persons with limited capacity. On the one hand, there are practical, practical reasons for this, since although the application is also submitted by the legal representative to them, a personal hearing should also be held in these cases against the person with a limited capacity to act. At the same time, this contributes to and contributes to the need to take the oath in Hungarian, and the person with limited capacity must take the oath in person. The other change, which also serves to strengthen trust in the institution of nationality and citizenship, is to amend the deadline for withdrawal, which was previously set for 10 years. At the same time, if a person acquires citizenship fraudulently, it is justified to strengthen public confidence in the same way that we increase this deadline and increase this deadline to 20 years instead of ten years, which means that 20 years are available to the President of the Republic to withdraw the Hungarian citizenship of a person who has fraudulently, inadequately obtained Hungarian citizenship, to withdraw his Hungarian citizenship in this form. For anyone who has acquired citizenship through misleading behaviour is justified by a long time-limit for the application of this sanction. Such a regulation also increases confidence in Hungarian citizenship and the institution of citizenship, and also increases the moral weight of Hungarian citizenship, and the value we call Hungarian citizenship. We would like to strengthen this further with this bill, and to ensure that the regulation of Hungarian citizenship is as complete, comprehensive and detailed as possible. Thank you very much for listening, and I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the law. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-18-78	Thank you, Secretary of State Tuzson Bence. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr István Vitányi, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2019-06-18-79	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Thanks to the adoption of the Double Citizenship Act, more than one million of our fellow nations have been given to acquire Hungarian citizenship through naturalization. According to the adopted law, citizenship is granted through a simplified, facilitated, accelerated, preferential procedure for persons who were Hungarian citizens or who were presumed to have come from the former Hungary and who speak Hungarian at a certain level. The untenable situation existed earlier, for example, that a fellow countryman living in Norway who had obtained asylum before the change of regime entered the Hungarian embassy after the change of regime and received the Hungarian passport quickly upon request, while our fellow nations, who never left their homeland, still became citizens of another state, could not obtain Hungarian citizenship. As a result of Trianon, one third of the nation has been placed under foreign jurisdiction. The Trianon wound was cured by a bill of dual citizenship. It was our duty to make the necessary legal provisions for simplified naturalization, as many Hungarians suffered and made significant sacrifices in order to remain Hungarian in full opposition, remember the Hungarian word, preserve our common culture. Unfortunately, there are also political companies in Hungary, as well as in the Parliament, which instigated Hungarian against Hungarians and betrayed our fellow nations for cheap political gain. Ladies and gentlemen, Thanks to the change of government in 2010, the policy of national interests has taken over the policy of individual individuals. This is how the legislation containing simplified naturalisation was created in the spirit of national cohesion, which also serves as a remedy for our fellow countrymen who suffered spiritual Trianon in 2004. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal before us is also largely linked to the establishment of naturalisation. On the basis of the draft, the permanent identity card is issued on its own initiative in the case of Hungarian citizens who acquire Hungarian citizenship with simplified localization. I find it a very good initiative, as it also gives citizens a driver's license in simplified naturalisation, such as those who have received naturalisation. [[14.00]] It is also important to mention the change that the so-called one-stop shop has been extended, thanks to which the examination of the application for citizenship, the authorisation of any change in name, the entry of data in the personal data and address register, the issuing of an official certificate certifying the identity and address, as well as the issuing of a permanent identity card in addition to the domestic registration of the events of birth abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, abuses have occurred, so people who were not entitled to citizenship have also been granted citizenship. In the future, in order to minimise the risk of this, the fingerprints stored on the document in the procedure for issuing the new identity or travel document under the draft will be compared with the fingerprints recorded in the request for the issue of the new document, in order to verify the identity of the applicant. [[György Szilágyi will be replaced by Dr. László György Lukács in the notary seat.]] From a guarantee point of view, it is important to highlight the last sentence of the relevant paragraph, which states that, I quote, the determining authority can manage the fingerprint until the cross-check is completed, thereby ensuring that the data is used only for the purpose. Ladies and gentlemen, The Secretary of State spoke in detail about the details of the bill, and I do not wish to repeat them. The proposal before us contains solutions that serve the interests of citizens, the more active action against abuses, and the resolution of legal interpretation and enforcement issues that have arisen in practice. In view of what has been said, the Fidesz Group supports the proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. János Bencsik, Jobbik, applaud.]]
u2019-06-18-80	Thank you, Congressman Vitányi. I give the floor to Mr János Bencsik, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2019-06-18-81	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to point out at the outset that Jobbik has been a supporter, even a pusher and a catalyst for the fact that from 2011 our blood torn away, the Hungarians from abroad, have also received full citizenship. We think that the Hungarian government repaid a very old debt when it eliminated that unworthy situation, and it is very sad that it took us more than two decades to wait for our Hungarian countrymen, who have lived in Hungarian with their families and all their ancestors for centuries in their homeland, to obtain Hungarian citizenship with great luck during a long, humiliating process. We all know and remember the cases where the waiting, the administrative burden of many years, the examination of Hungarian historical knowledge and the completion of questionnaires were the only way to reach Hungarian citizenship; the fact that this ceased in 2010 is, I think, a very great achievement, and you have every right to suggest that there are opposition parties or politicians in the Hungarian Parliament who are not wholeheartedly behind this issue today. But let me draw your attention, dear MPs, to the fact that you have not been clear and enthusiastic supporters of this either from the outset. János Martonyi's words from 2009 are still ringing in my ears, isn't it? He was your Minister of Foreign Affairs, who, even in 2009, talked about dual citizenship in the European Union as an unrealizable construct, and then he gave me an example of the fact that the farthest way to go here is the discount law that the first Fidesz government created around the turn of the millennium. Fortunately, this position of Fidesz changed between 2009 and 2010, and I venture to say that partly because in 2010 you felt that what you said was not enough, and by the way, the fact that we were able to vote on the law in such a large proportion is, I think, in any case, one of the most beautiful pages in the history of Hungarian politics. But here and then, on the concrete proposal, the amendment of the law before us is about how, on the one hand, we tighten up or better monitor the acquisition of this and, on the other hand, how we can make it easier with the one-stop shop. We welcome these for our part, but I would like to ask you, honourable members of the Government, why it took eight years to wait for this. So you were aware in 2011 that the acquisition of Hungarian citizenship was a system of fraud and abuse, and it is not what my fellow Member Vitányi said that some people and tens of thousands of people here have gained Hungarian citizenship for a few hundred or a few thousand euros, and this great public institution, the reunification of the nation by public law, has been undermined by this whole case, and it has also been undermined by the fact that you have been idly watching it for eight years, as various Russian, Ukrainian, Serbian and who knows what mob groups, based on this background, first announced, and later openly, by online advertisements, that after the payment of x thousand euros, without the slightest knowledge of language knowledge, such simplicity can be gained Hungarian citizenship. Well, how was that, fellow Members? ? Someone should give us an account of how we got here. Dozens of articles, studies, investigative articles have proven systematic, systemic and continuous abuse. The fact that you refer to Mr János Áder as President of the Republic in this bill, in the explanatory statement, to the fact that he has deprived 177 Hungarian citizens who have acquired Hungarian citizenship by preferential means, I think that is the recognition of this, but it is only the tip of the iceberg. Here 177 people were not fraudulently awarded Hungarian citizenship, but at least tens of thousands, if not hundreds of thousands. And the fact that you are increasing the withdrawal of Hungarian citizenship from ten years to twenty years is also in our eyes to admit that you are aware that to date tens of thousands or even hundreds of thousands of potential people who have nothing to do with Hungary may own Hungarian citizenship, who have never been a member of this nation, never want to be a member of this nation, never speak the language, just take advantage of this loophole, because if ten years are over in 2021, then we would not be able to withdraw Hungarian citizenship from these people later. By the way, I would like to note here that exactly how many localised citizens there are, we do not know, because there are more than one million sworn Hungarian citizens who have been admitted, we know that this is a 2018 data, but exactly how much we have not found any data on it. The government website is last updated in 2016 and the latest data that are included in it are data for 2013. So I would suggest that you look into this and update this data. [[Attila Gelencsér is replaced by Attila Móring József in the notary seat.]] By the way, it is also worth recalling how this mafia worked. However, the recipe was relatively simple: it was simply necessary to forge paper from a never-old Hungarian uprising, and then bribe the mayor of a small town or village in Hungary, who, after putting a few hundred or a few thousand euros in his pocket, issued a certificate that the applicant spoke Hungarian perfectly, and then began to produce these applications by tens of thousands. This went on until 2013, when they came to their senses, and from 1 March 2013 you introduced that you could no longer issue such certificates and carry out such administration throughout the country, which was brought down to the level of the district offices, and from then on you could only initiate this in the government windows. But that doesn't mean that these abuses have stopped, they've only become much more expensive, so what we have achieved is that now those who wanted to gain Hungarian citizenship from Inner Ukraine or Russia didn't have to do anything but reach deeper into their pockets. I quote a case in 2016: for example, in 2016 in Kisvárdán 197 people were sued for the preparation of false documents, so this clearly indicates that although this was somewhat tightened up in 2013, the entire procedure remained the hotbed of counterfeiting. I do not think that I need to describe in particular why it is worth obtaining Hungarian citizenship: both the Hungarian pension and the access to healthcare services in Hungary and, above all, the EU passport. Yes, my fellow pro-government Members, especially in countries outside the European Union, such as Serbia, Ukraine and Russia, an EU passport and the visa waiver that goes with it, are one of the extra reasons why it is worth reaching into the pockets of a lot of people and paying this amount. This is partly nuanced by the fact that you have ensured through settlement bonds that even if someone is not involved in Hungary, you can move quite calmly within the European Union with all the national security risks involved. But regardless, this road is still open, so the two run in parallel. [[14.10]] I would like to quote to you the words of former Minister János Lázár, who acknowledged in March 2017 that a specific mob network was built. I quote the words of the former Minister, which is the answer to a written question, by the way: "The government is indeed aware that certain criminal circles have engaged in commercial abuse of naturalisation documents. Well, what if it's not a confession, my fellow members of the government? ! That's what you've been trying to deny everywhere. Shortly thereafter, Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén called the news of abuses a lie, and in an interview he said that as a result of a rigorous audit, 32,000 applications were rejected, especially from Ukraine, and 55 cases pending criminal proceedings were considered to be a small number, and argued that the system was more too strict, so it would ease the rules with regard to language skills. I think that this shows more clearly than ever that there are not only individual cases, and we are not only looking for knots on the crap, but we are pointing out that there is a systemic abuse here that undermines the whole case and the moral plus that I think we may have heard from the author. I have now listed cases in the past, cases in 2016 and 17, but the fact that this is still the case proves a case in April 2018, which we can read on the Index News Portal. This proves that the Dark Web still sells Hungarian citizenship. So anyone who has 15,000 euros goes up to the online marketplace called Dream Market, bitcoin, cryptovaluate or dollar, pays in euro an amount equivalent to $15,000, and already has Hungarian citizenship. So to sum up, I think that we will support, for our part, every tightening up and clarification that will lead us to stop and stop people from getting Hungarian citizenship who have nothing to do with this country, this nation. But we do not consider this to be sufficient or effective to actually detect them by mass. We think that you lack the real intention to do this, or that you lack the real courage, or, if necessary, from the offshore business of settlement bonds, that you may risk having financial interests in maintaining this very poorly functioning mob network. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-06-18-82	Thank you, Congressman Benchik. I now give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2019-06-18-83	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, However, it is outrageous to hear such a speech from Jobbik, which is constantly accusing us of all sorts of conspiracy theories. [[János Bencsik, Jobbik: Come on!]] He said the old sentences, and he said the same old sentences. At the time, Mr. Congressman worked as a press reporter at Jobbik, but I'm sure he ran to get his phone to tell Gábor Vona that he might have more important things to do than to come in and vote on dual citizenship, because he didn't succeed, did he? You claimed that you were the reason we filed the Double Citizenship Act. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: That's right!]] This was also promised before the election, and it was a historical justice that was our first decision in 2010, after the Balliberal-Socialist amok run ended, the majority of the Fidesz-KDNP government and the constitutional majority thought this was the most important task, a symbolic step, to bring this into Parliament for the first time. But Gábor Vona, your former party president and three-time Prime Minister's candidate didn't think it was that important. to take part in this vote. But obviously you also called your President of Szolnok as a press reporter when he called Hungarians across the border a crowd that could be bought with a handful of glass beads, and called dual citizenship this glass pearl. You're saying here that it's an important and good institution, so you're obviously running to your President of Szolnok, that maybe you shouldn't write it on social media. Or perhaps you, as a press reporter, drew Tamás Sneider's attention to the fact that at the Hungarian Permanent Conference, you should not say that the Hungarian government should not support Hungarians across the border, because, for example, they live much better in Upper Hungary and Romania than we do, so we should not support them. He wanted to help them from one point of view: Jobbik wants to help the autonomy efforts of Hungarians across the border, because then the Hungarian government will not have to spend any more money on Hungarians across the border. So it was also considered as a financial transaction or a business matter by your current party president. Obviously, these are the cases when you ran over and told them, whether you told Gábor Vona, Tamás Sneider or the President of Szolnok, that Jobbik is somehow trying to sell itself as a national party, so don't say such things. No, you didn't do that, you didn't distance yourself from them, you didn't speak, you didn't post in social media, you didn't post that attitude that was outrageous or that way of talking about Hungarians across the border. On the other hand, the majority of the Fidesz-KDNP in Parliament has been working on it since 2010, and is doing everything in its power to create the Hungarian unity in the Carpathian Basin, the unification of the nation, and that is confirmed and maintained. This is why economic development programmes have been launched in many places, in southern areas, in the Highlands or in the Fields. This is why the preschool development programme in the Carpathian Basin, which is the largest kindergarten development programme ever, was launched. Therefore, we are spending more than ten times the amount of money on national policy subsidies across the border, as we did before, or what was in the 2010 budget. That is why we have multiplied the support of churches across the border, the support of Hungarian churches or the additional support for the clergy. That's why we're helping you with the scholarship program. That's why we started it without limit. In order to enable students and Hungarian students from across borders to connect, Hungarian students to cross-border Hungarians, so that Hungarian students from across borders can reach Hungary, so that these contacts can be established. That is why we have restarted or revived the Hungarian Permanent Conference. Mr. Congressman, you have joined a line that is very, very dangerous, because, obviously, from what Jobbik has said so far, you should stand up for Hungarians across the border much harder or harder, because obviously you do not want to belong to the group that betrayed Hungarians across the border, denied Hungarians from across the border and turned Hungarians against Hungarians in 2004. This has already been mentioned by my fellow Member, Vitányi, that it is worth talking about the shameful referendum and the campaign of hatred that preceded it, when the campaign team led by Gyurcsány hoped for some political benefit from it with its politics of 23 million Romanians and of translating Hungarian against Hungarians. And the saddest thing is that this has not been stopped since then, the last time today, when the Parliament declared the year 2020 by overwhelming majority as the year of national cohesion, the Gyucsány pro-members unfortunately said no. We are not surprised because this is the attitude, this is the nation-treasoning attitude that has already been committed on several occasions, but obviously we are not surprised that this is still the case here. Since 2004, this attitude has been what we can and can see from the Gyurcsány Party. Obviously, you do not share what we think the Hungarian nation is united and inseparable. They do not share the idea that all Hungarians are responsible for all Hungarians, they do not share the fact that Hungarians across the border need our support. In recent years, the situation in Transcarpathia has really shown how much it is necessary for the Hungarians in Transcarpathia to have political leadership in the motherland, but even the whole country behind it, because they have had an anti-Hungarian and minority rights policy in Ukraine, which we do not yet know how it will end, but which we obviously had to act against by all means, and in this we could count on the parliamentary parties with one exception, this must be added for the sake of the truth. [[14.20]] I think, in relation to this proposal, that I should also go a little further after the introduction, that we consider it very important that the issue of a permanent identity card is also carried out ex officio in the case of citizens who acquire Hungarian citizenship with simple naturalisation, who may not reside in Hungary, who live abroad or reside there. This is an important debt that we can now repay here. It is important to increase efficiency and control. The suppression and elimination of abuses is contrary to what the Member here says, as even the withdrawal of a large number of refusals and of a smaller number of citizenships already acquired shows that the system is effective before nationality is otherwise judged or issued, since the refusal in the order of tens of thousands shows that the system filters out the elements that you have already mentioned in time. I think it's a welcome move. It is also a welcome step to increase control and action against all kinds of abuse and its effectiveness. Congressman, you don't have to fall for every Internet ad if you find such an ad somewhere in the dark web pages. There are also ads that if you click anywhere, you won a cell phone, but it's not true. Just because someone advertises this about you, and someone's being pulled down with money we've heard of such things, the police need to act here, doesn't mean that these people can't acquire Hungarian citizenship, they can't acquire Hungarian citizenship. Posting such an advertisement on the Internet does not make it a public-law citizenship. I think that the most important thing here is that the national unification took place in 2010, since then we have a million 50 thousand old-new and new citizens of our nation. It is very important that we take responsibility for them, too, and it is very important that we take responsibility from Hungary for everyone who lives beyond our borders, whether in the Carpathian Basin or further away, because we have a responsibility to them. We will therefore support any proposal that makes their situation easier, helps or reduces bureaucracy, just as we will support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-18-84	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. I give the floor to MEP László Varga, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2019-06-18-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary, if this were not such a serious issue, I could start by saying good morning, because over nine years ago the law that amended the Hungarian citizenship law was adopted here in Parliament. By the way, 98 percent of the Members of Parliament have accepted this, correctly. This has obviously enabled this type of simplified procedure for the admission of Hungarian citizenship to countless of our fellow nations, many of us. This was followed by the political process that you set as a political goal, at least Zsolt Semjén spoke about this many times: by 2014 half a million such citizenships were granted. If I looked at the news correctly, it was September 8, 2018, when news was that the number of Hungarian citizens increased by one million, so in about eight years the new law was applied. In national policy, this is an understandable, correct thing, although this kind of forced march has also contributed to the fact that, by the way, the risks to which the MSZP has drawn attention from the outset, but also from a number of opposition politicians, have not been given sufficient attention. Obviously, this kind of storm has not allowed proper security features to be placed in the system, and I have to say to you that although the MSZP mentioned specific cases of the South of Transylvania, Transylvania, Transcarpathia, several times we have drawn attention to them by several of our politicians, you have not actually launched an investigation. Let me tell you two specific cases. On 16 October 2013, Mr Vilmos Szabó replied to the question of MSZP representative Zsolt Semjén, the following literal quote from his reply:, I can assure you that in the context of simplified localization, there is every legal guarantee to eliminate lawlessness. Semjén Zsolt, October 16, 2013 By the way, Attila Mesterházy is also in the room, obviously referring to his own written question, but let me do it, because he has submitted several written questions on this subject. One of them was answered by János Lázár, which described shortly later, in the autumn of 2014 - the government is indeed aware that certain criminal circles have been engaged in commercial abuse of naturalization documents, and investigations show that in several cases these actions have occurred with the intervention of the administrators. This is therefore autumn 2014. After Zsolt Semjén's reply about a year ago, at least János Lázár acknowledged that this type of lawlessness had occurred, but the President of the Republic withdrew Hungarian citizenship from 177 until May 2019. This in light of the fact that, according to the Ministry of Interior, in September 14, 256 cases were prosecuted involving 1032 persons involved, a total of 2519 persons were prosecuted and 450 administrative proceedings were conducted until July 16. In summary, it seems that the opposition has called from the very first moment, so the MSZP is also aware that there are security risks here, that criminal circles will abuse this situation. Compared to the real abuse, the President of the Republic withdrew a fraction of Hungarian citizenship, and the Hungarian citizenship affected by it was withdrawn by the President of the Republic. They will then come here nine years after the adoption of the original legislation by saying that it is indeed necessary to tighten it up here. Progress, simplification, security such words have been said by the Secretary of State, with which you can obviously agree, of course, the safer such a procedure is, the better, the easier it is for those involved to use it, the better. I just don't understand what happened for nine years, and I've been thinking about what happened now or what happened after the end of May. Did the People's Party ask you to bring this in now? Why didn't you bring him in years earlier? I am only saying this because the Western European press has also been subjected to the many abuses that have taken place in connection with the admission of Hungarian citizenship in this way. Obviously, in this context, the EU has repeatedly indicated to the Hungarian government that there is a need for tightening up. But, of course, it can be said that a forward-looking change from ten to twenty years in relation to the withdrawal of citizenship is a positive change, but I must say that the requirement for identification conditions is also a positive change. If I understand correctly what the Secretary of State has said, from now on, you can be sure that that person is taking the oath. I think that if this has not been the case before, then it raises very serious questions about the whole procedure. So to sum up: in May 2010, there was a serious consensus on that concrete proposal, the risks and the suspicions of abuse were still raised and continued to arise over the last nine years, but they did not put this presentation on the table. Either they had an interest in these abuses over the last nine years, or something has happened in the last few weeks, which led them to decide to bring this proposal in now. Answer these questions, Mr Secretary of State, preferably even in the debate, because there are obviously many who can depend on your further opinion on the proposal. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2019-06-18-86	Thank you very much, Congressman Varga. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I now give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP. [[14.30]]
u2019-06-18-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My fellow Member has raised a number of questions before me, but indeed, given the importance of the subject, and the fact that I have been dealing with this issue for a relatively long time, because here I have looked at the parliamentary website, since 2013, I would say to Mr Nacsa 37, I have asked 37 written questions on this matter, the last one on 5 February 2019. All 37 questions dealt with the abuse of the Hungarian dual citizenship institution, that the government should do something about it. Indeed, different answers have been received. Usually it was to get the hell out of here, the congressman asks silly questions, there's no such problem. If there is no such problem, why bring in this amendment? Then why are they talking about how the solution to this is finally here? My fellow Member Nacsa said that the system would filter it out in time. Well, if the system's gonna filter it out in time, then what's the point of this proposal? The Ministry of Interior has given me the answer that they can only verify the authenticity of the documents given as far as possible. If the system filters this out in time, they will not look at it as far as possible, but they will be able to check everyone properly. Of course, this statement is not true, the system cannot filter out these anomalies in time. Indeed, this is dangerous, not only because of EU security and Schengen border surveillance and the threat to terrorism and migrants, but also because of what my good-looking fellow Member said, that this was a symbolic gesture towards Hungarians across the border, which really has a pathos, indeed has a symbolism that also expresses belonging to the nation. And it's not good for criminal circles to use it for financial gain. Moreover, it is not Hungarian criminal circles, because at least we would be talking about our Hungarian brothers, but Serbian, Ukrainian and other criminal circles are taking advantage of this loophole or these opportunities, I would add, with help from Hungarian administrators, officials and mayors. The President of the Republic has withdrawn his citizenship from 177 people in recent years. I was told by the Ministry of Interior that more than 2,500 cases were initiated until 2016 and not until 19:00. So this means that there is no thank-you relationship between revoked citizenship and the real set of problems that lie on our table. [[Dr. István Vitányi intervenes.]] I understand that. Press a button, Mr Vitányi, I will listen to you because I am interested in your opinion. If he yells at me, I can't answer him, it's because I can't hear exactly what he's saying. So the point is, it is certainly important that this issue be addressed by the Parliament. I understand that Lőrinc Nacsa does not want to listen to previous quotes, because these earlier quotes are unpleasant to you, as there are quotes, which are unpleasant to us, so make no mistake. But it is true that János Martonyi and Fidesz did not want to introduce dual citizenship for our Hungarian brothers across the border. But I could also bring you from Zsolt Németh, just because of the time, I don't make many quotes about the fact that you've always talked about the fact that this question is not relevant. It was not said that it would not be like this, but that during the first Orbán government, these politicians and their government officials across the border dealt with the issues raised by Hungarian organisations across the border that this issue was not relevant now. [[János Bencsik, Jobbik: 2009.]] Then suddenly this issue became relevant, and in this, I must say, although my fellow Member Bencsik was modest, because he answered my written question, János Lázár, which he answered, but the point is that that is where Jobbik has the truth, that you have indeed started to deal with this after 2010 with their political pressure. It wasn't that you promised me that. They have not promised anything on this issue; they have avoided this issue embarrassingly, precisely because it can raise and raise a number of problems and problems in foreign policy. Nevertheless, it is true that there has been a political pressure to bring this bill into Parliament, and a very fair 98 percent support decision has indeed been made on this basis. Let me just get you one more question. There was a very important argument for you on this whole citizenship issue, and that was getting a vote. Zsolt Semjén constantly announced victory reports, where he promised five hundred thousand new citizens, and then he promised the Prime Minister a million new citizens, and always proudly indicated that we had checked the new corner numbers as a production conference. It is quite clear that you have used this to actually obtain votes from across the border. I think this can be at least as problematic if we are talking about pathos and symbolism as, in the case at hand, the activity of certain criminal circles in terms of abuses, since this is once again demeaning this issue in the field, while I believe that this is a much more symbolic, nobler question than merely a question of how we can get cross-border voters and thus extend support in Hungary's elections. I would add that I think that our position is much more honest and fairer, because one thing is certain: the Hungarian Socialist Party cannot expect too many votes from beyond the border. So in Hungarian, we supported this initiative at the time in 2010, despite the fact that we knew precisely that this kind of political advantage to us in this sense would certainly not and will not last for a long time. Nevertheless, I say that this was indeed the right decision at the time, and it is no accident that I, as a faction leader, fought for my faction to support this initiative. This was a success, as the MSZP fraction supported this initiative at the time. What my fellow Member László Varga said was that it was possible to see in advance that this kind of construction would raise problems, and not only did opposition representatives talk about the abuse of this opportunity by various criminal circles, but, for example, by the Consul General of Vojvodina, I believe that Pannon TV has, if I remember correctly, given an interview in which he said that Serbian criminal circles are really using this opportunity and are using this opportunity. In your time, your appointed Consul General spoke about this. However, in 2013 concrete cases were mentioned in the South, Transylvania and Transcarpathia, that such abuses were indeed happening, and that Hungarian citizenship was sold for money. Yes, I found it, the Hungarian Consul General said this on Pannon TV, and he talked about the fact that a separate industry was created in Serbia. That is why we say that this solution has come a little late, but it is better late than never, and perhaps there was a point in all the questions that the government was finally making. I would also like to add that this is not a 100% solution, Mr Secretary of State, because you cannot rule out those crimes when this kind of fraud happens with the help of the administrator. So, in Hungarian, we should go further in this respect, because in some respects this is a good step in the right direction, but certainly we should take even more courageous steps to eliminate the possibility of fraud in full or at least in close proximity to it. That is why I am going to propose again to our group to support this initiative, to accept the government proposal in Parliament, even if we think that more should be done in order to filter out these frauds, so that there really is no shadow on the part of criminal circles on this institution, on this symbolic, national system of institutions. After all, it was probably the intention of all the legislators to make this a symbolic, positive and an initiative that could only be talked about in Parliament with a pátos or rather with recognition, rather than being repeatedly mentioned in connection with various crimes. Thank you, Mr President, for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]] [[14.40]]
u2019-06-18-88	Thank you, Congressman Mesterházy. Dear Parliament, The next speaker is Mr Barna Pál Sigismund Fidesz.
u2019-06-18-89	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I feel that, very briefly, we must respond to the unfounded statements and lies that have been made here. First, listening to my fellow Member, János Bencsik, I didn't really know that the DK faction spoke to us, and then I watched twice that he gave a keynote speech on behalf of the Jobbik faction. There were several factual errors in his performance. Secretary of State János Martonyi did not say in 2009 that citizenship was not justified, but much earlier. If we look at the development of the law, the first important station was I don't know that Jobbik existed when the status law regulated the fate of Hungarians across the border. There were still a lot of attacks from abroad and, unfortunately, domestic legislation, but at that time we took an important step forward. At the time, there was no development of European law, let us say, or development of EU law, to allow for dual citizenship. The Hungarian government fought a great deal at that time with the Venice Commission and with their internal opponents to accept this special status, the Hungarian ID, which at that time meant a boundless happiness for many Hungarians across hundreds of thousands of borders, as hundreds of thousands of people took advantage of this opportunity, so the Hungarians across the border confirmed that this struggle had meaning. Later, as it became possible, we will bring 2004 here in practice, and I would also return to 2002 with regard to the Socialist Group, but let us bring 2004 here, when citizenship was included in the Hungarian public address, also thanks to the ungodly activities of the left, and it was followed in 2010 by the Fidesz-KDNP government, and one of the first steps was the citizenship law, not specifically the pressure of the Jobbik faction, I think. As my fellow Member Nacsa said, he was one of the first provisions of the Orbán Government, especially because he had promised this earlier, and this promise was made, and we generally and always keep our promises, as opposed to those of the left-wing parties. He also talked about systemic fraud, thousands of thousands of hundreds of thousands, hundreds of thousands of abuse, so there were allegations that I tried to take notes on what this meant, because he used to talk about hundreds of thousands, and then he talked about hundreds of thousands of abuse. I urge my fellow Member, Mr Benchik, to report and report if he is aware of such abuses. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: We did.]] Indeed, there were a few hundred cases in which citizenship was withdrawn, there were a few thousand cases where there were complaints, but there were over one million cases that complied with the law, and the Hungarian citizenship was legally acquired by applicants in compliance with the rules. So let's not start suggesting and smearing things again that it's all a big abuse. This is an insult to Hungarians across the border, the hundreds of thousands of people who have legally exercised the right of citizenship. The few hundred cases in which there has been abuse, the few thousand charges that will be made clear whether there has been abuse or not, cannot tell us that the whole system as it is is is wrong. The system is good, there are frauds, there are bad people, there are villains, they must be struck with the means of law. Some cases have been investigated by the Hungarian police, the Hungarian law enforcement agencies, who have also caught the perpetrators, have been solved, but the system in itself is working well, and the huge success of the Hungarian administration is the citizenship law. Otherwise, the laws of citizenship of several EU countries are similar to ours, so the Hungarian citizenship law is not simpler or more complicated, it contains the same guarantees as the other European States, the citizenship law of EU States, where dual citizenship is permitted, but is permitted in many countries. So I wouldn't cancel our legislation in that sense. So I urge you, if you know of abuses, to report them, and if you do not know such cases, to be modest, and please do not say that there have been hundreds of thousands of abuses in the legislation. The allampolgarsag.gov.hu page was an information page, which was of particular importance on 1 January 2011 when the legislation came into force. Any information you need from an applicant is now available at foreign representations' website, foreign representations, if you want to live with citizenship. Therefore, this information can be obtained without further delay on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs's website or on the websites of foreign representations for citizens, especially for diaspora in several languages, i.e., where appropriate in English, Spanish, Italian, French, German, making it easier to understand that if one of our compatriots wants to use this opportunity and cannot read Hungarian properly, they can read it in the language of the country, the host country. My fellow Members László Varga and Mesterházy also spoke of such systemic abuse. I would also like to say to them that we should stay on the ground of reality and not paint nightmares in the sky, try not to derail the system, or visit as we did 23 million Romanians on the status law, as we have done once. So let's say that the law has passed an excellent test, that hundreds of thousands of Hungarians across borders have legally used this opportunity, and there have been some abuses, and they must be hit with rigor of the law. This amendment, in turn, does not require any modification of some of the technical details that we have in front of us to say that systemic abuse is the reason for this legislation, and that is why this amendment is necessary. Then to link it with terrorism and other dangers, I think again that it is a very bad message for Hungarians across the border, so I would stay on the ground that this is a great success for the Hungarian administration. It was a very big thing that there was consensus, with the exception of some extremist DK representatives, everyone voted in favour of the citizenship law, so there was consensus in this Hungarian public life. As a senior consul, I have always said and said proudly that I feel that the entire mother country is behind me when I was working in Miercurea Ciuc, because there is consensus behind the legislation, and it is important that this consensus remains. After all, this is a Hungarian national issue, in the parliament of other countries, when there is such a debate, everyone is generally united, the representatives of all parties praise the law, and they are pleased that there is such an opportunity that the nation can grow and grow. Unfortunately, in Hungary, many parties are always trying to capitalize on political capital by instigating Hungarians to each other. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: You at most.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-18-90	Thank you very much, Congressman Zsigmond Barna Pál. I now give the floor to Congressman János Bencsik, Jobbik.
u2019-06-18-91	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, How shall I put it, then, in the last sentence of Congressman Pál Zsigmond Barna: the DK traditions of Hungarians' instigation against Hungarians, my honourable fellow Member, you continue to betray the Hungarian opposition on a continuous basis, and regardless of what the case is, through your media, which is pouring out the counterfeiting of news, you are trying to beat into the minds of foreign Hungarians that Fidesz is the national party alone, and all the other opposition parties are traitors to their country, and they are pro-immigration... [[Defiance in the pro-government ranks.]] You're laughing at what ridiculous claims these are. With these ridiculous news, try to wash the heads of Hungarian public service media and citizens reading all the media that you have an influence on. This is one of the most repulsive, infuriating examples of Hungarian opposition to Hungarians, and you have been doing this for years. It doesn't bother you what damage it does, what wounds it causes in the Hungarian-Hungarian context, but their souls are on it. For political purposes, one hundred thousand, one hundred thousand, two hundred thousand votes may be enough, but before history, you will have to account for your conscience that you understand the one or two mandates of turning Hungarian against Hungarians on the darkest Gyurcsány traditions. [[Dr. Sigismund Brown Paul intervenes.]] I can't go past Nacha Lőrinc's statement. Congressman, you were engaged in the continued abuse of Jobbik in your speech, but you still did not deny any particular abuse. He didn't deny either of them. I don't know, like you're familiar with Roman Nashirov's name or any of your names. Roman Nassirov was the head of the Ukrainian customs office, he fell on corruption charges in 2017, and the entire Ukrainian press was covered by the sensational news that he had the Hungarian passport in his pocket as well as the Ukrainian. No one knows how he got it, and it's not a case like this. The fact that you're looking at these shows that you're either just not aware of the facts, that there's less chance of that, or that you're just not willing to face reality. [[14.50]] I ask you very much that, when we refer to abuse, you do not try to take us away from the fact that we were, and will be, basically supporters of the institution of dual citizenship. What you are constantly doing is that if we use any criticism of any of the laws, they try to draw on the entire opposition, Jobbik, in any case, that we are not a national party, they question our national commitment, and when they can't do anything about the arguments and the specifics, then there will be the ringing and what Congressman Nacsa said that we have joined the left. Do you know, Congressman, who stood by the left? You, when the Lisbon Treaty was voted unread in this House, together with the Socialists before 2010, when you voted hand in hand with the Socialists about Romania's membership of the EU in 2005, so that Romania could become a member of the European Union without having to vote for any conditions, not even ensuring the minimum collective rights of Hungarian minorities. If there is something unacceptable, then this is it, fellow Members. I ask you very much not to point fingers at us, and don't spin, because if anyone has passed this exam and failed this exam, when they had to crash against national interest with the governor's left, it was you. I cannot ignore the incident that occurred in 2010 and which is constantly being brought up when Gábor Vona, President and Group Leader did not come to the vote because of an administrative error. You are trying to do this shamelessly and unscrupulously in your cross-border press, which has been successfully purchased by Szerencségy Zrt. to show that Jobbik did not support this. They know perfectly well that Jobbik supported the law from the beginning, and we even urged it ourselves. But if we have so much to ask each other where its other representatives, party leaders and group leaders are at the time of the important votes, I would like to ask you where Viktor Orbán was this morning. Where were you today when we voted here in this House at 10 a.m. to make 2020 the year of national cohesion? According to his Facebook page, he met with Ethiopian church leaders. Shall we now enter into such a demagogic competition with each other that Viktor Orbán was at that time more important to Ethiopian church leaders than national union? [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] What? Congressman, press the button and give me your opinion on this. This poor debate, which you keep bringing up about the vote in 2010, every time you bring it up, I will repeat that. And you can't even refer to the fact that it was important for Viktor Orbán to defend the Christian Europe, because, for example, when Pope Francis had a historical visit a few weeks ago in Csíksomlyo, do you know where the Prime Minister was? He was in Madrid watching the BL finals. While the historical papal visit took place, which the Hungarians had been waiting for for for decades, and which had greater significance than itself, the Hungarian Prime Minister, with one of the oligarch's private jets, no longer knows which one, but I'm sure you can look into the football match at the BL final. Instead of questioning each other's national commitment, I would like to ask you to try to have some kind of professional debate on the ground of truth. By the way, tomorrow I will have the answer to my written question about why the Prime Minister's Bla match in Madrid was more important than the visit to the Pope of Szíksomlyo, we will find out. Finally, because Mr Nacsa referred to the speech by Mr Zoltán Sotyori-Lázár, our former President of Szolnok. The difference, Congressman, is that Zoltán Sotyori-Lazar, after this reckless statement, do you know what he did? He stood in front of the press, held a press conference, and apologized. He did what was painfully lacking in today's politics, that if a politician misworded or unwittingly hurts others, he would stand up in front of the cameras, say that I made a mistake, apologize, it wasn't nice what I said. On the other hand, you are raising these charges. To date, no account has been given of why, for example, in 1990 they left the Trianon Memorial in the walls of this House. So you can take these cases out, but then, I think the least you can do is count them out with your own conscience, give them an answer, apologize. They apologize for the withdrawal in 1990, apologize for Romania's unconditional vote in the EU in 2005, apologize for the vote of the Lisbon Treaty, and then, if ashes were spilled on their heads, then we can start to lecture each other on national commitment. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-18-92	Thank you, Congressman Benchik. I give the floor to Mr. Csaba Gyure.
u2019-06-18-93	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Here we heard that this law was very good, which was introduced, and basically only after missing it, there were problems in one or two hundred cases, and how glorious it was that only 177 cases of this nationality had to be withdrawn. Indeed, it is a fact, and it is included in the explanatory statement of the bill, that it has been done in 177 cases so far, and you believe that it is not a mass, and it is insignificant. The only problem here is that this is what came to the surface, as my fellow Member János Bencsik said, not just the tip of the iceberg, but a very, very tiny fraction of the tip of the iceberg. Because it has not yet been said in today's debate why so many citizens who receive their Hungarian citizenship come here, but they have nothing to do with Hungary, they have no Hungarian ancestors, they do not want to live permanently in this country, and they actually come to this country for a certain profit. These people are those who do not know Hungarian, because they have no ties to this country, they have only material interests in order for them to come here. When we look at the number of people logged into one apartment, one house, one property a few weeks before the election, we will get strange numbers in the northeastern border areas of Hungary. And here I am talking primarily about Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, especially the Bereg, where the population is changing year after year, growing and falling, and there is a time when, in a year or two, the population is increasing almost three times more than twice. For example, in the case of Kispalad, where in 2013 there were 605 inhabitants of Kispalad, and in 2017 there were 1347 inhabitants. You could say that this is obviously the non-plus ultra of Fidesz family protection policy, that things are going so well in Kispalad, but unfortunately that is not true, but it is true that foreign citizens are being deployed here who receive Hungarian citizenship to come to vote, and they must draw X. Who? Obviously for the current governing parties; and that it is not a hundred, and it is not two hundred, and it is not a thousand, but ten thousand. We requested the data from the local authorities, and we have seen that in a series there are 100 people, 150 people, 200 people, 250 people registered in a single apartment. There are 170 people on 66 square meters, all of whom are called Ukrainians, so it has nothing to do with it, it cannot even be discovered that there is a Hungarian origin of the names, all of them are Ukrainians, and there are 20-30-40 such real estates in each settlement, where there are more than 100 registered persons. When the neighbors talk to them or the mailman talks to them, it turns out they can't talk to them. When you come to Hungary to take a pension once a month because this is also a very important aspect, which you also look at with closed eyes, that thousands or even tens of thousands of people will take up the pension in Hungary and not get as much as the pensioners in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, for whom the average pension is 80-90 thousand, possibly 100 thousand forints, but the multiples, doubles and triples of this, and when these pensions are taken up by these people, they certainly bring with them an interpreter to talk to the postman so that they can take over these pensions. And these people have a permanent registered address, they have a Hungarian passport, they have Hungarian citizenship, they just have nothing to do with Hungary, they just don't know a word in Hungarian, they don't want to learn it, and as the neighbors say, they don't see such movement, that hundreds, 200 people come to this property every day, no one comes here. No one comes, at most, when the pension is taken, they come here, and otherwise they don't speak Hungarian. I find this shocking that you are still writing in the justification of this law that, in 177 cases, citizenship has already been revoked. Not in 177 cases, but in thousands of cases. And obviously, it's also a very important thing that this law has a lot of positive implications. It was indeed necessary at the time to give citizenship to our Hungarian brothers across the border, yes, I think that all Hungarians with common sense agreed with this, and I do believe that this was done at Jobbik's pressure at the time. [[15.00]] What they were before was shared positions within the Fidesen. One thing is certain: there was a party here in 2010, which was always consistently united, and that was the Jobbik Hungary Movement. We have always stated that citizenship must be granted. I remember the referendum on 5 December 2004, when the World Federation of Hungarians brought the posters, the leaflets. And where did they bring him? It was brought only to the then MIÉP or to other national radicals, because they said that unfortunately we cannot trust Fidesz, they will not be sure, wholeheartedly support this referendum. Perhaps if they had supported it, the referendum would have been successful, but unfortunately it was not successful then, and this is precisely one of Hungary's stains of shame. But from here on out, Jobbik has stood up for this completely consistently since its founding. It was you who didn't want to give the Hungarians the right to vote, for example, beyond the border, only when they saw political gain in it, when they saw that Hungarians across the border would vote for you on the basis of surveys, of course, with a little support for the local media, that Fidesz is the only party that had to blow this everywhere, all the other traitors of the country, in order to have support behind you. This is obviously the way they obtained the majority of the Hungarian votes across the border, and this is what led to the fact that these thousands, if any, even tens of thousands of people who had access to Hungarian citizenship illegally. This bill, which has now been amended and tabled on your part, should have been submitted from the beginning, I do not know how many years, but it has been very many years too late for you. You can't tell me why the Jobbik didn't tell us why we didn't tell you. Whatever we have said to you over the past nine years, we have said anything, one Commissioner: 99.9 percent of you have voted against it in any case, whatever proposal we had, you have voted off everything. Speaking of Christianity here, Mr Nacsa, let me say that, for example, it was you who voted against the better proposal in the debate on the Fundamental Law that would have been included in the Fundamental Law that Hungary was a Christian state. He was voted down with great indignation at the time, on 16 November 2010 because he would say that this did not happen, he was voted out during the preparation of the constitution at that time. So such things happened back in the day, and Jobbik was the one who was always consistently pursuing the same policy. Mr Nacsa, my fellow Member Nacsa, also brought up the fact that we do not usually look at how much this government helps beyond the border. How can we not look at it? We have many Members working on this, and there is even a separate cabinet, which deals with this precisely, the Hungarians across the border. You guys are very impressed that such a programme has been launched, and that it has been launched. Sure, yeah, everything with state money. With our money, the taxpayers' money. Jobbik has not been in government position yet, obviously they cannot judge what help we would provide to Hungarians across the border, what program we would develop for Hungarians across the border. But we know one thing, and we have done one thing: we have always helped Hungarians across the border to the maximum compared to our strength, but we did not use the state's money, but our own money. For example, at the time of the renovation of the college in Beregszas, each betterman MP paid 50 thousand forints of his own money in order to buy pots from the college and constantly helped either the secondary schools, local schools or kindergartens, not with public money, not with European Union money, but with our own salary, which we added up. I have never heard anything from you that you would have done the same thing as the Movement for Jobbik Hungary. [[Dr. István Vitányi: We do not boast about it.]] Or, for example, we don't want to brag about it, but we kept organizing and carrying relief supplies that we didn't solve with state money, not with state funding. So if someone is really trying to do something about their power, then they should be taken away, my fellow Member, Nacsa, from the Jobbik for Hungary Movement at all. Based on all this, returning to the law, because this debate has gone a little too far, and I think it has become a bit naughty, it must be seen that it is really important to tighten up on this legislation. We really need to try to close the loopholes, but this should not be now, but we should close these loopholes much earlier and much harder. Indeed, those who are entitled to Hungarian citizenship, who are entitled to it, will receive it and receive it with dignity, not under unworthy circumstances. Because if you look at it there, for example, they mentioned the Transcarpathian Hungarians: who gets Hungarian citizenship, how does he have to cross the border? What unworthy conditions do they provide at the border when there is a three - hour wait on the way back? Sometimes it takes eight to ten hours for cars to be searched in such a way that virtually everyone who gets there feels like a criminal and goes to the border in fear, just like they did at the time of socialism. Obviously, that should be changed, too. There are many other things that would require political will only to further improve Hungarian-Hungarian relations on both sides of the border. I often see that these are the exact ones that do not cost money, but should only be intended, which do not happen today. I think we could do a lot for Hungarians across the border today. Among other things, not by opening the door so that criminals and all kinds of elements can move into Hungary and receive Hungarian citizenship, since those who have Hungarian ancestors, whose grandfather, great-grandfather and grandmother were Hungarian, are obviously entitled to and will receive Hungarian citizenship. There is a problem here with those who received it in bulk, thousands of people, even tens of thousands of people who received the citizenship without having anything to do with it, had no Hungarian ancestor, and had no knowledge of Hungarian language. I'm glad the law's at least a little bit changed now. Obviously, we will support it, because although it improves, even if a law improves even a little, we consider it to be supported, and the Jobbik Movement for Hungary is used to voting on them, not like Fidesz, which, if it agrees with it, will vote them off. We usually support the good proposals, but this should have been done much sooner. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-18-94	Welcome, fellow Members. Thank you, Congressman, for your speech. Congressman Attila Mesterházy has indicated his intention to comment. You have the floor.
u2019-06-18-95	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Now I understand why the left side stands like this, because where the Jobbik stands, where the Fidesz stands. [[Defiance.]] So now I know that the reason for our failure is that someone is always on our side, so we can't represent our own policy. But aside from the joke, let me add that here it seemed to me, on the basis of my fellow Member Bencsik's comment, that this popular partying has been a little shaky, because now we seem to have returned a little bit to the better comments that criticized previous NATO and the EU. There is nothing wrong with that, only the Lisbon Treaty and many others are an integral part of our Hungarian accession to the EU. But let me just add this to the joke. The other is that my fellow Member, Mr Sigismund, expressed his opinion, moved me to speak again. You said or may have said that, Mr Nacsa; it is okay, and you will decide that you will keep all your promises. I really liked that. So I'm sure the four-time pay increase was also followed, free higher education was also observed, without which the Prime Minister couldn't have received a degree in his own words, or let me mention, let me say, a foreign policy issue, that we won't be the happiest barracks of the Gazprom, nor will we be Putin's finches here in Europe. So they had a lot of promises that they actually kept, but perhaps the WikiLeaks is the one who said that Viktor Orbán once told the US Embassy not to watch what he says, but what he does. All this suggests that you take your word seriously and what you promise. Actually, just to increase your joy a little more, let me bring you a few quotes, not from you, it's a fact and it's real, but from other Fidesz Members. This is how the first quote reads:. If we could win now and then give five million Hungarians citizenship, and then they could vote, it would be decided for twenty years....., Mikola István, March 2006. It's just that they had no intention of doing anything about the vote. The other quote, by the way, in 2006 in the same year, is:. The cross-border people do not ask for voting rights, so Fidesz does not want to grant them that. Péter Szijjártó. We have never linked the issue of Hungarian citizenship to the issue of suffrage, the two things cannot be treated together. János Martonyi, 2006. In Fidesz's ideas, it does not include giving Hungarians the right to vote in addition to dual citizenship. Répássy Róbert, May 2010. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Hungarians across the border receive Hungarian citizenship on the basis of an individual application, and this will not result in Hungarian suffrage. János Martonyi, 2010. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Citizenship and voting rights are inseparable, but to have full voting rights, you must have a Hungarian address. Semjén Zsolt, 2010. [[15.10]] The only thing that can be considered certain is that every Hungarian citizen will have the right to vote. Gergely Gulyás, August 2011. Well, so much for how your position has changed, your opinion, if any, on a particular issue, while, of course, you will keep all your promises or not. I didn't talk about systematic abuse, I don't take it personally. I said there's a system that has flaws, and these are the mistakes that should be corrected. I understand my fellow Member Sigmond but he may have a pink lens in his glasses now, but we do not see it so brightly that the system has passed an excellent test, and if you allow it, let us not even be obliged to think the way you think. So I understand that you think it's a fantastic 110 percent system. We don't think so. That is why we need to change, but I think you see it the same way, because otherwise this regulation would not have been introduced into Parliament. By the way, the Minister of the Interior said to me in a reply that in many cases it has not yet been found out that someone has obtained Hungarian documents and Hungarian citizenship by cheating. They claim that this will be revealed when the document expires, and they will be going to extend it again, so in Hungarian, it may be possible that there are several cases that I do not know whether this is 500, 5000 or 50 000, which will later turn out to be a fraudulent one, and thus, where appropriate, there have been systematic abuses of this system. The last comment that I would like to conclude with is that there are some people who are jumping the Hungarian with the Hungarian, and here he looked at the left with a prickly eye or at us, or, I don't know, at Jobbik, too. I would ask you, as a really poetic question, that by jumping with Hungarian, you mean, say, the MKP is constantly facing the Bridge-Now in the Highlands, the DAHR with the People's Party or the Hungarian Civil Party, until it has been found out that these are non-viable units, and only the DAHR is able to stand firm on its feet, or KMKSZ with UMDSZ, or, where appropriate, in Vojvodina, the representations there against each other. So I think that those who consciously and systematically export the Hungarian internal political division across the border were you, by the way, until it was revealed to them that the RMDSZ could not be defeated, or other legitimate parties or movements representing Hungarians outside the border, which were not very pleasing to you at the time. But I agree that it would be right, by the way, if cross-border policy wasn't about how to play anyone against anyone. Just as it wouldn't be a big problem if someone spoke to him with decency in favor of a case, even indicating anomalies, but in agreement with the big picture, then they should, please, not be treasoned all the time. You didn't say that there should be any misunderstanding, but I also feel bad that I am listed in the same category as some of the contributions that may be made by some DK contributions. I think quite differently about Hungarian national politics. I thought something else when we were in the same party, even since we weren't in the same party. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-06-18-96	Thank you, Congressman. I am asking my fellow Members, who would like to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I'll give the answer to Secretary of State Tuzson Bence.
u2019-06-18-97	Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Listening to the debate here, I am very pleased that our fellow Member, Mr Barna Zsigmond, has finally contributed to this debate, because he is not a more authentic person on this issue, because he was the Consul General in Miercurea Ciuc, when he was the Consul General, in that period 200,000 Hungarians could receive Hungarian citizenship. 200,000 Hungarians. The number of Hungarian citizenships distributed in Miercurea Ciuc is now 300,000. I do not think that the Hungarians from Transylvania, Szeklerland, would have liked to have listened to this debate, which sometimes dressed the attack of Hungarian citizenship and the dual citizenship institution, which, by the way, wanted to hide this argument behind crimes. Fellow Members! There's no way the institution itself is being attacked. My Socialist fellow Member has just said what is the seizure pace, that a million people have received Hungarian citizenship at the pace of a seizure. How can you call the period when these people lost their citizenship from 1921? At last there was a redemption, and within the framework of this redemption, one million Hungarians could get their citizenship back. [[Interventions in opposition benches.]] How are there crimes? That there are crimes, there are criminal trials? Ladies and gentlemen. Hungarian citizenship is a valuable citizenship. Valuable citizenship and no illusions. There's always gonna be criminals, there's always gonna be people who try to play the rules. Not only in matters of citizenship, but also in other cases. Let's say that our Hungarian civil code, which is virtually the same under regulation, under other laws, has the same rule governing the violation of property rights for a century, because some people are stealing, is the Hungarian code, the civil code bad? Not bad. That's not the point, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, The regulation, which, by the way, concerns Hungarian citizenship, as I said, is a stable regulation, a good regulation. However, there is always a need to focus on how the level of technology changes and how the legal system, the various legal institutions, can be protected as best as possible at the level of the given technology; therefore, one of our most important values is the value of Hungarian citizenship. And if there are, by the way, crimes have to be discovered, they have to start from the beginning. To the end, we need to look at what really caused these crimes, who the perpetrators were, and see what we can do at the level of the given technology, for example, in the case of fingerprint investigations, where the technical level is now developed; what we can do in the case of IDs, where we now have tweezers IDs, so identification can be at a different level than before; what we can do in order to regulate not only this area but also other areas as widely as possible. The world will never stop, there will never be a regulation in the early 1990s, and that regulation, let's say, will still be the same good regulation in terms of criminal code and criminal justice in fifty years' time. This regulation must always be monitored. That is the most important thing in this legislation. You have to follow the challenges of life. If there are crimes, if there are cases where this can be combated at the appropriate level of technology, then this must be fought. This recent comment was surprising from my socialist fellow Members, and they were trying to present a picture of the love of dual citizenship, but I would like to draw everyone's attention to how they campaigned at the time of the referendum on 5 December. The former MSZP president, who was actually called Ferenc Gyurcsány at the time as a socialist party, was indeed at the head of it, and there is a fellow Member among the socialists who was indeed a poster face of this campaign; they were campaigning to ensure that there was no dual citizenship in Hungary. In these circumstances, how credible can the speech that has been made be? They were the ones who were most supportive! And then for political reasons because they were scared of the election defeat in 2010, they decided that, by the way, not all of them, but almost all of them voted in favour of this legislation. But this is not an internal motivation when a country has been tried to deceive in this matter before! And dear fellow right-wing Members, allow me to say that anything can be said, but when it comes to such a significant vote from the nation's point of view, such a significant vote, which symbolically gives the Hungarian people the right to view themselves as Hungarians and to say more, the concept that Hungary will change, because from now on, this country can become a community of Hungarian people, and not an area surrounded by borders, in a vote of such importance, which has a dogmatic significance in this respect, the president of a party, the President of Jobbik, does not come into the vote. [[15.20]] In total, there were eight such representatives in the great parliament at that time; the number of the Parliament was almost double. Anyone who does not come to this vote and does not vote can say that such a negative gesture has a symbolic significance. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: You also left the Trianon Memorial!]] It's symbolic. Ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to speak on one more question, because my fellow Member was probably not here yesterday when the Prime Minister answered immediate questions, and in the framework of the immediate question he said that the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic could not be in one place and at the same time abroad under Hungarian constitutional and constitutional law. Accordingly, if the President of the Republic is there, the Prime Minister cannot be in this place. There is such constitutional regulation, otherwise this constitutional regulation makes sense. However, this is the legal situation, and unfortunately this legal situation must be taken into account in this respect. But let us not confuse, I say, the rules concerning Hungarian citizenship concern the strengthening of Hungarian citizenship, they concern the strengthening of the prestige of Hungarian citizenship by how the Parliament made rules in the circumstances of a few years ago. The regulation at that time was a modern regulation. But you always have to pay attention to what I have indicated about how time changes and how we can maintain the continuous modernity of a regulation. Experience must be built in on what we have seen in criminal cases and criminal activities should be pursued as strongly as possible. That's what I'm saying, as Secretary of State, I'm in charge of citizenship matters. This type of crime must be pursued as strongly as possible, but we must also ensure that our regulation continues to follow the requirements of the age. Ladies and gentlemen, One thing I heard out of today's debate, today's discussion: despite the fact that we see the past in these matters differently, we can expect our Members of Parliament, whether from a pro-government side or from a opposition side, to vote with the responsibility that this is a good regulation, a regulation that strengthens Hungarian citizenship, the prestige of Hungarian citizenship. I would like to ask my fellow Members to support this regulation as widely as possible, because this is good for all Hungarian people, Hungarian citizens, and it is our duty as Members of Parliament to strengthen the institution of Hungarian citizenship. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-18-98	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. It follows that the draft law amending certain tax laws and other related laws as a result of EU harmonisation obligations and the joint general debate on the amendment of certain tax laws and other related laws will be continued until closure. Government referrals T/6349. and T/6351. available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. I would like to remind you that during the opening of the general debate, the opening speech by the author, the speeches by the lead speaker and the speeches by the representatives of national minorities took place. We now have further speeches from our representatives. First, I give the floor to Congressman Kristóf Szatmáry, on behalf of Fidesz.
u2019-06-18-99	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Let me start by saying that the tax package submitted, as we well know, is one of the most important, if it does not base its most important annual budget, it supports the objectives set out in the budget and amends the tax legislation required. If, in view of this, we look back on the previous period, the debate on the tax package on the opposition side was also a very serious genre. It was here that the criticisms that the opposition might have wanted to express about the tax system could be presented. It seems that this situation has changed. We may have gotten used to this in the last few years, and we can actually interpret it as a positive feedback to the government that it is practically the tax package, because, fortunately, Hungary has undergone economic development and economic recovery over the past four or five years, and, fortunately, taxes do not increase year by year as before, but decrease, so the fang is actually extracted. This is broadly apparent from today's keynote speech. Let me just give you an example. In addition to the fact that no one from MSZP, DK and several opposition parties is here in the debate, the MSZP said practically a three-and-a-half-minute exposure to next year's tax laws. Indeed, many opposition representatives did not know very much what to do with the tax package, since we could get used to them not being praised, so a number of them were very short on what they had to say. But there was indeed a pleasant surprise here, and many people praised several points of the tax package, and we do so for our part. What was criticised was more of a criticism of the government's tax policy for the last 7-8 years in general, which is a little difficult to interpret because we are arguing with the facts. We think of the tax system, the direction of taxes, as a basis for economic development, which, I think, has now set the economy on a very, very good track for six to seven years now. It is critical of the tax package or of the tax system as a whole, as we see it as an advantage, that we are essentially trying to build a work-based society by reducing labour and personal income tax. We believe that the economic development of a country, including Hungary, can only be based on the fact that as many people work as possible, and that this work is valued as much as possible by the tax laws at the moment, and that the essence of our tax package is that it leaves more money to people, and by leaving more money than people, it also supports small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary by creating a market for domestic businesses. The reason why we cannot really agree with such criticisms, and we can only speak in favour of the tax package submitted, is because, of course, all the tax packages and all the tax ideas in this direction can be understood in a broader context, i.e. where we want to get from, and what is the tax policy that we want to avoid, against which we would like to confirm something. Here, let me give you some examples. I would like to bring here a tax package debate after two election years, which shows the real difference compared to the tax package that we have just submitted. This is the 2007 tax package of the socialists and the government of Ferenc Gyurcsány. And here again, who would say that we are talking about a period of economic crisis: we are not talking about that: this is the period before that, it was simply the result of a five-year-old Gyurcsány, MSZP governance. Indeed, only without the need for completeness, when discussing the tax package at that time, the debate was about why a 4 per cent solidarity tax would be introduced, why an eva would be increased, why health insurance contributions, labour market contributions would be introduced, why pensioners would be extra burdened, why would the 15 per cent VAT rate be raised to 20, why would the excise duty be increased not for the first time and not for the last time. They were talking about a Luxury Tax, and the debate about the introduction of a tax on interest and exchange rate gains was, I say, interestingly today, perhaps the least emotional situation here in Parliament now only if I compare it with the previous debate on the citizenship law and it receives several positive assessments of opposition. [[15.30]] And compared to that, what is changing, what has been the basis of the tax package, the tax package submitted by the Fidesz government, for years? The fact that it brings security and stability brings planning not only for Hungarian families, but also for businesses, and the fundamental question is what are the preferred areas in terms of government policy that the government can envisage tax reductions from the next year. Here, too, I would just like to highlight more important points from the point of view of businesses, for which I think that the tax law, in addition to putting support for families in the focus, contains very positive elements for businesses as well. One of these is that, as of 1 July 2019, the rate of social contribution tax will be reduced by 2 percentage points to 17.5 percent, which will continue to be passed on next year, leaving additional resources to businesses and companies, as appropriate. The small company tax rate will also decrease by 1 percentage point from 1 January 2020, from 13 to 12 percent. It contains a lot of simplification, as appropriate, in the case of kiva and kata, and is driven out as a result of an earlier form of taxation, the emptying of the Eva. It is also important for businesses to abolish tax advances, to effectively drive out advertising taxes and also to reduce taxes on accommodation services in a targeted way in order to improve the competitiveness of accommodation services. I think that now, without the need for completeness, since this has already been said in the previous debate, these are all steps that fit into the economic policy of previous years. In fact, they represent only positive changes for businesses, so long-term plans, ideas that are or are in the process of being supported by businesses. Allow one more thought on the tax package, and perhaps in a broader context, that one of the best indicators of tax policy as a whole and I think that perhaps one of the success stories of Hungarian economic history is that consumption has been expanding in Hungary for nearly 70 months now. How can consumption increase? With more money than families, they can consume more. And if we look at or try to interpret the possibilities of a given period from the point of view of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, the first thing they look at is that although the government spends a lot to support exports, but the vast majority of domestic businesses are still operating on the internal market, so for us the vital question is what kind of spending will be for the population, how consumption will grow, and from this perspective it is reassuring to see that due to tax changes, this increase in consumption could be maintained by 2020. This is also important because, on the one hand, an increase in the income of domestic families can be deducted from this. Here too, one example of the economic policy success of recent years is perhaps that this increase in consumption has been about double for years compared to the consumption of the European Union as a whole, so this figure can be taken as a basis for income growth, and since 2010, for example, domestic consumption expansion has left only Czech and Polish consumption expansions, which are measured here in the narrower region. Once again, in the country where consumption is increasing, on the one hand, I say that it means improving the income situation of families, but what I would like to emphasise most is also an increase in the potential of domestic businesses in 2020. Domestic businesses are therefore supported from two sides: on the side of the tax reduction announced, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, through consumption, they can sell their goods and services, and the truly dynamic development that most domestic companies have been able to say in this respect in their own lives, can continue in 2020. I would like to say once again, though I would be surprised at it, but trusting in today's opposition speeches, in addition to, of course, the Fidesz faction's support for the tax package, I think we can fully ensure that we will be able to support the tax package, even with the hope that perhaps some opposition groups will do so, because a good tax package for domestic families and domestic businesses has been presented. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-18-100	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Péter Ovadi of the Fidesz Group.
u2019-06-18-101	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Thank you very much for the floor. In front of me, my colleague Kristóf Szatmáry has already said a lot of things, and President Erik Bánki has also highlighted a lot of things in his speech, but the lead speaker of the LMP and the Dialogue has come to a rather strange conclusion on the tax package presented, so I would like to repeat a few things. The government's economic policy focuses on supporting Hungarian families and maintaining and protecting economic results in 2020. In the spirit of these objectives, the economic protection action plan and the tax package submitted were also prepared. As a result of the work started in 2010, the Hungarian economy is on a long-term growth path, and its growth potential is strengthened by the government's agreement on wage increases and tax reductions concluded at the end of 2016, which is one of the most important elements of the efforts to build a work-based society, simultaneously providing a parallel incentive for wage catch-up and for companies to improve efficiency, thereby further strengthening the job creation and labour retention and income generation and competitiveness of the Hungarian economy. The undisputed results of economic policy measures now make it possible to reduce the tax burden on a continuous basis. In Veszprém's electoral district No.1, I hold entrepreneurial forums where micro, small and medium-sized enterprises are present, and I also hold entrepreneurial forums for large companies, where they always tell me how happy they are about the tax reduction policy. I am very happy to consult with them, because this is how we can help each other's work. A further reduction in the social contribution tax rate for next year will also contribute to maintaining favourable processes. Since 2010, the number of employees in Hungary has increased by around 800,000. Allow me, through an example in the constituency, to illustrate the amount of savings that will result from a reduction in the rate of social contribution tax. Herendi Porcelánmanufaktúra Zrt., which has a long history and has a majority of employees' ownership structure. It has a workforce of nearly 750 employees. [[15.40]] In recent years, the company has achieved significant savings by reducing the various taxes, so since 2011, despite the 51 percent wage development at Herend Porcelain Manufacture, the socho payment obligation has not increased, but has remained at the level. The elimination of the special sectoral tax meant an administrative reduction, the elimination of the cultural contribution resulted in savings of HUF 14.6 million, while the elimination of the special corporate tax resulted in savings of HUF 8 million. It is important to point out that the burden of the company was multiple to the current one before 2015. We can also see, through the example of Herend Manufactory, that the tax policy of the government has led to a significant reduction in the burden on businesses. The government's economic policy measures are a clear direction: we want to continue creating jobs. As a result of strong labour demand, favourable processes can continue to take place in the coming period, employment growth, unemployment rate declines and wage dynamics, resulting in real earnings rising by 41 percent in 2018 compared to 2010 so that the household income situation can be further improved. The Hungarian Government strives to ensure that the labour needs of companies are guaranteed, therefore it also supports labour mobility. In Veszprém we are also at the forefront of this, as in January the building owned by the municipality was handed over with a working hostel with HUF 300 million. Strengthening the work-based economy will help maintain the growth of the Hungarian economy. The government has given priority to employment aspects, its objective is to make it worthwhile for everyone in Hungary to work, and to ensure that people earn a living primarily from income. In view of the strengthening of the Hungarian economy and the shortage of labour in the competitive sector, the mobilisation of the labour resources of the economy is a priority in order to ensure that young people starting their careers, mothers with young children, public workers, job seekers and inactive workers who want to work are able to enter and return to the world of work. Dear House, The bill before us is also a certainty that the Hungarian economy is on the right track, and the government is committed to protecting tax cuts and economic results. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-18-102	Thank you, Congressman. I'll give you the floor now. Mr. Z. Karpat, on behalf of Mr. Dániel, on behalf of Jobbik.
u2019-06-18-103	Mr President, Dear House, I could say that I warmly welcome my fellow Members. That is right, because I feel pretty much at the meeting of our Committee on Enterprise Development that my very dear colleagues have spoken out of this committee on a number of occasions, and we can also find common points on the points raised. Still, I have a lack of feeling. On the one hand, the break-up of the leadership and general debate is perfectly suitable for the castration of a debate, since in general, in the lead vocal round, that imaginary jerk stick appears, everyone beats the other's head with it, with different ratings, and then the whole story shifts. The general debate is continuing now, and we can say that with very modest interest. We may be doing business now, but the healthy mix that would move towards a professional and political public agreement for the benefit of the citizens of Hungary seems to be lagging behind. However, since this debate is so braked, I would like to take advantage of the points in which we may agree and try to correct those that do not necessarily meet with reality, in my opinion. Then, at least at the level of the minutes, history and this debate will decide who is right. What I see in the tax package before us is that there are some eligible elements, and I can support the reductions without exception, but at the same time, and I recommend this to Vice-President Szatmáry, in addition to supporting the reductions, we must be able to state how, as a result of a socho reduction, we can make the systems that your good friends managed by the MNB can make more sustainable or make more sustainable, as a result of the lack of public tax revenues, that they are expected to collapse in the early 2020s. So we must also give national strategic answers here if we are to make proposals that are right in the direction of a tax reduction. I would like to add that I would also like to see guarantees that the burden relief of the employer's side can be expressed in some way or other in the increase in wages, at least to a large extent. However, I do not see these guarantees. If someone tries to put entrepreneurial thinking on the table, then I am myself, but I must say that I cannot find the facilitations affecting the Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurial sphere as much as I would like. And this is the end of a flowchart, starting from the fact that Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises have received a minimum discount of 1 per cent compared to the previous corporate tax level, and your strategic partners and multi-company companies have received a large, very prestigious, almost halving tax level, a multinational tax haven level within Europe. And this duality comes back everywhere, whether it is about credit lines open to micro- and small business operators, which are then taken away by subsidiaries and medium-sized enterprises of multi-company companies, or any other form of discount. I can see that it is painfully lacking not only in the tax package, but also in the government's thinking of a programme to deal with the housing crisis. And here the CSOK is not enough, because if you do a quick professional calculation, you can see that even in addition to the $10 million CSOK, there is also a district in Budapest where you have to deposit HUF 36 million to buy an average size apartment. And a lot of young couples who start their lives can't even do that from bank loans. In such a case, what is the solution? Unfortunately, Hungarian young people often vote with their feet and look abroad for prosperity or the form of income that will enable them to obtain property here ten years later, and then either do it or not. I think the solution would be a rent-apartment programme, and we could already provide a vision for young people who are leaving under duress in terms of a rent-apartment scheme. This would also require regulation of Airbnb and various Community solutions. We've been arguing about this for years, the government hasn't interfered. In a big city the size of San Francisco, when 2000 properties were taken out of the city market by Airbnb and various community solutions, the year and a half to double the rent increase. In Hungary, 3,500 properties were rented only in Budapest by this system from the supply side. There is, therefore, an incredible shortage of supply in the real estate market in this segment, and the Government of Hungary has basically done nothing. We proposed a co-taxation, and they tried to achieve this in a liquefying way, but the problem couldn't be solved because it didn't transform the operating structure of Airbnb and its associates, and the supply side didn't get any more extensive. So supply constraints persist, which raises rent rates. On the other hand, the Government of Hungary does nothing. So what I would like to see in this package is a reform of the tax system to the extent that it allows for housing support. And, yes, you have to look here per city, if necessary, at each district, how much more expensive housing is in Hungary than is reasonably possible, and this must be priced into a support system, typically for our tax-paying compatriots, in order to be able to thrive in Hungary. I am fully open to the development of detail regulations, but it is not expected that a Hungarian youth can raise a rent of between 150 and 180 thousand plus overhead and raise children next to it. I would very much like for as many young Hungarian families as possible to be able to take on children by mass, but the fact is that the indicators do not show us this, and despite all the rhetorical good intentions of the government, the mention of the demographic package has continued to deteriorate since its introduction. I wish I didn't, but logically, the number of live births has been reduced, as we start from a lower base, so there are fewer women of childbearing age, but even within this lower base, the fertility rate has fallen from 1.54 percent to 1.49 percent. So a minimal, let's just say halt, a relapse has occurred, but it is definitely over with the replacement that happened everywhere in the countries of the region 6-8 years ago, so that the very low fertility rate at the time of the change of method has been replaced to a level of less than two, but perhaps tolerable. In Hungary, because of the economic emergency age of Gyurcsány-Bajnai, this could not have happened for a long time. After 2010, this replacement has been completed, but this is not progress, since 2.1-2.2 is where it is. [[15.50]] I would also like to say that I find it unworthy that, in fact, on the part of the opposition parties, we are alone here. This does not cause us any problems, because we have a programme, we have something to say, but at the same time a tax debate must be something of particular importance. In particular, when we are discussing the most important bill of the year, a greater presence may be expected. So I do share the concerns expressed in this matter. At the same time, I believe that the government should intervene in the field of Airbnb, in the area of the rental scheme, with a housing support programme in the area of rent prices. This must be combined with or even synchronized with the tax system, as there are ways to do this. With regard to the socho, I welcome the reduction, although there is nothing in this whole story. We are talking about the consequences of a six-year agreement, which is now being brought in by the Government of Hungary with roughly a financial year shift or shift, we hope that this will only cause minimal damage compared to what it would have done a year ago. What interests me is the sustainability of social care systems, including the pension system, because for a long time, the various political forces, you, your fellow shifters, the MSZP and the governments called the former Balliberal have sought to campaign with a steady increase in pensions, which has won a wide crowd. Time has changed, history has progressed, only the magic words of maintaining the value of pensions have been campaigned by the Fidesz-KDNP, and now, due to the evolution of inflation figures, it is not necessarily possible to maintain the value of pensions; this will be visible after the next financial year, whether it has succeeded or not. It is important to see that if emigration goes on at this level, if the number of contributors remains at this level and ageing continues, and, unfortunately, why it should not continue, then these systems may become unsustainable. I do not say that it will definitely be the case in the coming years, but I say that a responsible and self-respecting government must give answers to this, especially as Secretary of State today, to this point, the vision of Fidesz-KDNP on the sustainability of the pension system. I would also suggest thinking about differentiated pension increases in the future, and there are a number of good points for programmes, which will be presented in the budgetary debate, with which we will be able to move towards sustainability. The increase in wages has been mentioned here, and I am forced to think about it. The increase in wages in the last narrow decade is undisputed, let us be glad that this is the case, but I believe that this statement is that the performance of Hungary's Government is not the result of this minimum increase in wages, but it is typical that in sectors affected by labour shortages, the market has produced the background of the increase in wages without the Government of Hungary providing a favourable climate for this, and in some areas the current government of Hungary has been able to counter the increase in wages. For example, from their strategic agreements with multi-company companies, disprove me if they do not, but there is a lack of intention to catch up on Hungarian wages. I do not want to generate an inexpensive political debate by the fact that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán campaigned in Saudi Arabia to bring the working capital here, because Hungarian wages are sufficiently low and the labour code is quite flexible, unfortunately, both are so, since one statement by a political leader does not necessarily mean a professional program. Although it would be appropriate to clarify this and to clarify what the Fidesz-KDNP's real position on this issue is. We see that if we look at the dynamics of Hungarian wages, that we are also among the Visegrád countries in terms of wage increases since 2010, and if we look at the Hungarian wage level, we can see that in terms of workers' poverty in Europe, there is Hungary in the top three countries of the Union, and that Hungarian wages were able to grow from a very, very low base by the market. I do not want to get results out of this, I want to say that there is much more in the system: by renegotiating strategic agreements with multi-companies and by effective public intervention, just think of the public sector, it would be possible to increase wages at least in line with the slow increase in productivity. Jobbik's EU wage concept was about this and certainly not about the transfer of tax licences. I'd like to clarify that because there's been such a suggestion, there's been a statement. Why we don't want to transfer tax powers with the union, I can give you an example of that. If we choose a vegetable or any kind of kofa here in the Grand Hall, and compare his wages with a Dutch vegetable farmer in Benelux, say, a Dutch farmer, if we reduce all taxes on all tax jurisdictions here, he won't be able to bring home the Dutch wage level, or even a third. So you can see that's not what this is about. The essence of the concept is to achieve an increase in wages adapted to productivity growth, so that these scissors do not expand further, if necessary narrow their stalks and approach each other, but the Government of Hungary has not taken any steps in this direction. Once again, there is a social disaster in which the increase in wages is still slow, in many cases dwarfing compared to the countries in the region, by no means competing with the Western European average. This is not what we expect of him, because we do not want to create science fiction, but real expectations. But what you need to see is that there are plenty more reserves in the Hungarian economy, and the reserve is around here on a graph ahead of me. I will not show it to be a forbidden illustration, but I will tell the Secretary of State that a simple google can be used to find a graph that covers the expected VAT revenue and the expected corporate tax revenue. Here you see, Mr State Secretary, that the gap is more than twelvefold, that the expectation of corporate tax revenue is so small, as this lacks the imaginary tax paid by multi-companies, which are subject to imaginary public burden, because this is not realized in Hungary, there is a pitifully low willingness to tax in the multisector. And in terms of VAT payments, let me commend you, at least what the government says is true: yes, they want to make the difference by taxing consumption. This has happened, but Hungarian families who receive family tax relief and it is good that they receive, I support that they receive, in terms of taxes on the poor, 27 percent VAT on the world record, this difference is largely paid into the Hungarian budget, so they take out from their other pockets what they received in one of them, and they see no benefit mass, if they see, say, that the most brutal indicator in Hungary in terms of VAT content of child rearing articles should be reduced immediately from 27 percent to 5 percent. This could also be an important segment and subject of the tax dispute. At the same time, I see that even if we didn't go to a government production report, as we did yesterday at the foundation of the budget, the results have been a little enhanced. They did not talk about shortcomings, problems, troubles, and what is the most painful, complete social groups are left out of the beneficiaries of the tax package, and without their inclusion in human numbers and the establishment of their worthy living conditions we cannot talk about Hungarian ascension and Hungarian reproduction. At the same time, all our decisions should be subject to this, to the slowing down of the emigration spiral, and to the fact that the desired children can finally be born in Hungary, because we agree with all of the good fellow Members that Hungary has to solve its own problems on its own, not by the help of outside powers or by external resources. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-18-104	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman László Böröcz, on behalf of Fidesz.
u2019-06-18-105	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I'd just like to add a few things to what you said. With regard to the minimum wage increase that Mr President has just said, I would like to say that since 2010, net wages have increased by 70% on average. This includes, of course, the effect of family tax relief [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Double in the surrounding countries!]] But I wouldn't say it's minimal to a 70 percent net wage increase. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: I do!]] If we look at the tax system or look at the Hungarian tax policy after 2010, then it is worth comparing this with the approach of the previous period, as this can be used to highlight the fundamental difference in this. If we travel back in time until 2002, then in 2002, in the election campaign, the Socialist Party promised that, by the way, family tax incentives would not be affected. By the way, after the election, after they won, family tax incentives were immediately abolished. If we remember the 100-day programme, the Socialist government of the time made practically a wage increase, a welfare wage increase, and the result was that Hungarian public finances fell in very quickly, because the then government did not provide coverage for this wage increase, and it solved the cover precisely from a loan. The general government deficit, if I remember correctly, reached 9.5 percent in 2006 in the year of the elections, which was a brutal deficit, which financed these expenditures. [[16.00]] Obviously, this meant that, in practice, new loans had to be made up for the accumulated general government deficit. So, ergo, they used loans to finance welfare expenses, and then they filled the holes with loans. As a result, the Hungarian budget and the Hungarian economy collapsed by 2007, when the global economic crisis was not even known in Hungary. Compared to this, or after that, what happened? What happened was that the government thought that the solution was to start raising taxes. Here, Congressman Szatmáry has already set out the taxes that have been raised under the Gyurcsány government, practically all that concerns businesses, families and Hungarian people, so I would not do that. On the other hand, the question is what led to the result after 2010. About multinational companies, whether or not Fidesz is going to involve them in public burdens. Practically after 2010, when the state of bankruptcy left behind by socialist governments had to be consolidated [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: It's 2019!]] Then we managed to include very significant amounts in the budget with the so-called sectoral special taxes, and obviously we also collected this from large multinational companies and thus managed to consolidate it. On the other hand, the domestic demand could obviously be maintained by tax cuts and support for families, and Hungarian businesses could be supported. Fidesz's tax reduction policy has remained unbroken ever since. In the last seven years, practically every year, when the budget could open up to this, we reduced taxes. In the law before us now, which was discussed, the reduction of 1 percent of the kiva also concerns 40,000 businesses, leaving about HUF 5 billion for small entrepreneurs. I think it's also a huge step forward. And it's only important because, obviously, with these steps to reduce taxes or, as we have just voted for, not so long ago, although it's not in this law, but this includes reducing the Socho, which also leaves 150 billion forints a year in businesses, thereby increasing the room for manoeuvre for businesses. With these VAT cuts, we will obviously increase the mobility of the Hungarian people, as they will be able to spend more, so obviously we can also increase internal demand, and there is an opportunity for businesses to develop themselves. In the SME sector, there is indeed a need to increase efficiency, because if we compare multinational companies and the efficiency of Hungarian companies in the SME sector, we still have plenty to do there, but the policy of the government is based on exactly what I have said about increasing the scope of these companies' tax cuts. So I think that if someone compares Fidesz's tax policy with the tax policy of the previous period, there is a clear difference, because while in the previous era they tried to gain more revenue with tax increases, I add that they failed, because the end was that even the revenues had fallen, as many people had pulled themselves out of the tax pay, the economy slowed down, consumption had decreased, so obviously everything went backwards, compared with the Fidesz government's successful tax reduction policy, because it is not just about reducing taxes, increasing the room for manoeuvre of our businesses, and people can consume more, but it is about the fact that, at the same time, every year, the Hungarian budget is increasing with very significant amounts. These thousands of billions, which the budget has been able to use in addition over the last eight years as a result of this economic policy, can be used in support of families, in support of the social sector, in the development of health care, in the development of education, in the development of the army and in many other areas. Obviously, this is a very important lesson in history that these expenses cannot be covered by credit, so we can go as far as the blanket is, by the way. So we can allow what the Hungarian economy can produce. This is a very important aspect, I believe, for the future, and I trust that the government will continue to see it as a basis for the future. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-06-18-106	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpát.
u2019-06-18-107	Mr President, Dear House, Let me start with a coming out. My personal comfort is greatly enhanced by my ability to respond to what has been said, since I have technical possibilities. I may be surprised: we agree on almost everything. The fact is that here, however, the Government of Hungary must explain a certificate. It is always for the current government to explain whether the tax certificate of the tax package for the future in Hungary is exemplary, sufficient or not. What are the most important indicators? I told you about the number of live births. The certificate is not considered to be exemplary here, nor is it, particularly in terms of mortality, in terms of fertility rates. We were talking about wages. Okay, let's do this, although it is very strange to debate wage statistics by leaving out the methodology of the statistics you mentioned, companies or companies with fewer than five employees. So in this statistics... [[To László Böröcz:]] But, don't wave your head, see if you can find out how the KSH does these aggregations. These statistics, which you are talking about, leave out businesses with fewer than five employees. So wage statistics, average wages, are compiled in such a way that this microlevel is left out. If my fellow Member Böröcz or anyone has an amendment that adjusts this methodology or makes available other, more complete statistics, I will vote for it, I will have no political objection, no concern about it, but that is the case at the moment. If we look at these wages or at all in a wider spectrum, we can see that since the accession of the EU, which I have raised countless criticisms, since there is still no EU balance, we do not know in which areas we can benefit from and where we pay for membership, because there are a lot of payments, but since accession, GDP per capita has increased by 57 percent for the Visegrad countries. This 57 seems to be an impressive number, like the 70 percent increase under ten years of age. Problem is, it's the lowest indicator in the whole region. For Poland, GDP per capita increased by 100 percent. The fact is that, also in terms of wages, if we do not want to convert Hungarian wages into euros, but this makes it possible to compare them with the neighbouring countries, then we see that Hungary is 25th in the EU 28 in terms of estimated hourly rates with EUR 9.2 per hour. We also see that the countries of the region are typically ahead of us, the Latvians, the Poles, the Croatians, the Estonians, the Czechs and everyone else who is in the area, almost everyone, is in this ranking, and unfortunately we are not approaching them, but the distance is constant, or we are also moving away from certain countries, so their increase in wages is faster than that of the Hungarian economy we have just heard praises about. I am not saying that there are no positive moves, but there are no positive moves, and we are even supporting them. I'm just asking you to evaluate the real, honest certificate and expect it from you. With regard to the reduction of kiva and kata, I was at all supportive of the introduction of the kata. But wouldn't it be a responsible attitude, my fellow Members, to say, in addition to the cuts, that these people, if they reach retirement age, will be retiring from what? No one answers these questions, and here one of the most important parts of the national strategy dimension is that in 30-40 years we will have contributions or the current contributors, who cannot or does not want to pay enough contributions because of such a very favourable form, what awaits them in their old age. Working life? 'Cause that's what they say! Or will there be some form of social care to compensate for this deficiency? 'Cause that's what they say! We therefore need a long-term strategic vision, and that is what I miss in this debate. In calculating the wage increase below 10 years of age, the inflation rate should not be disregarded. That was fortunately low for many years. At the same time, I would like to point out to my fellow Member Böröcz that I am dealing with a whole different rate of inflation when examining core inflation, and if we are looking at the consumption basket of a typical retired couple or pensioner's household. We see that inflation in basic foods and articles typically consumed is much, much higher than in statistics. Taking these into account, it is worth evaluating the existing wage increase. I do not dispute these results, but we want to achieve more, more beautiful, even better for Hungary. Finally, we have a very small debate with my fellow Member of the Commission on labour mobility. I consider labour mobility to be good in some segments, but some are unacceptable. [[16.10]] If we are talking about the county of origin of one of my family, Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg, if we say that there we are bringing the inactive Hungarian youth living in the village to the profession with the help of the college system, we will train him and if he finds his calculation elsewhere in the country, I am not necessarily happy, because the best goal would be to thrive in the homeland, to prosper in the homeland, but if this happens, be so. At the same time, at the moment, it gives rise to mass imports of foreign labour, not to say that it is the Veszprém county institution, but to say that after the closure of the Árpád Hospital in Újpest, Cyrillic inscriptions can be found at the so-called labour hostel there, obviously not for Hungarian workers, as Hungarian workers do not need to be briefed with Cyrillic-letter signs. So once again, there is a dimension here that we can accept, we can support the transformation of vocational training, the dormitory system, but not mass labour imports. The work-in-campus programme in the economic defence action plan typically allows easier imports of foreign labour, in my opinion. There is a debate between us that might be smoothed down by the fact that I would like to see specific percentages of data, I would like to know, about the percentage of foreign workers who are, say, 90 days in a rotational system or with longer residence and work permits in the country. I would like to ask you: did it not start in Turkey exactly the same way as the Cyrillic inscription now appears in Hungary at the former Árpád Hospital, now at the working hostel of strangers? Wasn't it exactly the same processes before our eyes a few decades ago? Shouldn't we learn from history? Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-06-18-108	Thank you, Congressman. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no such signal.]] I do not see a candidate, so the joint general debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary of State Izer Norbert to respond to what has been said.
u2019-06-18-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Members, The Deputy Minister in his expo and in his speech, the pro-government representatives very well summarized the government's economic policy results, which he has achieved over the last few years, as well as some elements of the family protection and economic protection action plan, as well as the details of the tax package, in the debate. So I would now like to attempt to respond to certain professional questions that have been raised in the debate, which I feel need to be put in place because they need clarification. Even if it's not logical, I'd like to go in chronological order, so we can go through some of the important points. First of all, I would like to thank you for your constructive contributions. We have also read from Mrs Potocsány's feedback and comments that the present tax package is indeed one that can create a consensus here in the House. Indeed, it achieves a significant tax reduction by not fundamentally transforming the tax system, so we can operate with tax reductions every year under a stable, predictable tax system. And then some of the professional questions that I feel from feedback are worth putting in place. Several times, however, there has been talk about the system of social security contributions and sochos, and Mr Z. Karpat also referred to it, and she also indicated that there is a maladministration here, that what was a former contribution is now a tax. I would like to make it clear here that the Socho Act defines, by the way, what kind of social security funds this tax constitutes, so it is labelled, which funds this revenue comes to. For the sake of accuracy, 70.22 percent of the Pension Insurance Fund, 27.31 percent of the Health Insurance Fund, and 2.47 percent of the National Employment Fund. It is not, therefore, that these amounts could be spent for any purpose, they are revenue for targeted social security purposes. And another clarification is that the former social security contributions have not been based on any of the above, so there is a professional misunderstanding that, despite the fact that it was a contribution, care is always based on individual contributions, as is the case today. This is also the answer to why government taxes did not fall on the side of individual contributions. Therefore, we are reducing taxes on the employer's side so that we do not endanger these future benefits, either in cash or in kind, but I would like to mention this in more detail at a later point. In the context of Mrs Potocska's speech, it was also said that the echo method provided to international sports organisations would provide an excessive discount and that it could lead to budget cuts. I would like to confirm here that this method of taxation will be provided for a circle that is currently not in Hungary, so that this amendment will bring additional revenue in all cases, and the priority economic policy objective is that if the centre of large international organisations is placed in Hungary, this could lead to much more major events at international level and to Budapest. We believe that the impact of this on tourism and economic development is indisputable. And yet another clarification is that there is now an amendment to the current tax package on sport infrastructure. I would like to clarify here that the 50 percent limit is not increased to 80 percent, but the basis for accounting changes. Thus, it is no longer the financing of the operating loss, but 80 per cent of the eligible cost will be granted in the form of a tax benefit. All this is being transformed because of the rule system of the block exemption regulation, so we will implement a much smoother, simpler system of administration, so there is not only an increase in the rate or tax relief rate, but also a virtual change in the basis of the whole system. Csaba Tóth's feedback, which came out most impressively, was that the multis were getting the socho reduction, and it was said in virtually all opposition representatives' feedback that the socho reduction was in favour of the multinationals. Here, let me remind everyone that two thirds of the employees are employed by Hungarian SMEs, so the socho reduction helps everyone, the smallest employers, and because two thirds are employed by SMEs, socho reduction typically helps SMEs. So let's not forget this when we say that this 2 percentage points is helping businesses. I'd also like to clarify the amount of money you're leaving with the economic operators. It was said that this year it will leave 150 billion forints in the economy, and in the following year it will provide virtually another 150-155 billion forints. To clarify, it leaves more than 310 billion forints a year. This is because this year we have to measure a six-month impact, so this year it leaves a HUF 145-150 billion in the economy, and next year it leaves HUF 310 billion in the economy. So we have an extraordinary economic recovery opportunity ahead of us. I would also like to point out that... I'm sorry, I would also like to say that the socho will take all the tax cuts. We got it as a criticism that the entire tax package would take the money. I appreciate this as an advantage that there was a possibility that we could implement a tax reduction programme of 310 billion in the current very tight budget planning, so I take this as a positive criticism that we managed to put this 2 percentage points reduction into the system. It was also suggested by the Member that the increase in tobacco prices was included in the package and that the Hungarian government was operating with tax increases. We are indeed talking about a tax increase, but what we need to see here is that the European Commission is forcing this tax increase. The European Commission would have practically forced us to do this tax increase at the beginning of last year, but instead the Hungarian government has decided to choose a six-step extended tax increase instead, otherwise risking the infringement procedure, which the Commission has launched against us, but I think we will be able to prove that with these six steps we can protect the market and stop the proliferation of the black economy. With a one-step radical tax increase that the Commission expects, because it will be the EU tax minimum that we need to achieve, we think that it would clearly support the development of the black economy, so we believe that we should make this amendment in this six-step version. It was also said here that the price of cigarettes could be up to two thousand forints. The average data of the NAV, i.e. the average cigarette data, is now costing an average pack of cigarettes for HUF 1274. The sixth step, after the three steps that we are now facing, is likely to cost 1391 forints after the last step, so not even 1400 forints will be the price of an average cigarette. So I think, on the part of a mild ex-president, this is the mark of two thousand forints. [[16.20]] In the context of Mr László Varju's comments, I also could not decide whether, as a positive or negative criticism, he said how tax revenues would increase in the next period. We have recently seen from the budget figures that the development is very impressive, very spectacular, as tax revenues increase year after year. As a critic, Congressman Varju has tried to show that the state is drawing more and more money from the players in the Hungarian economy. I would like to clarify here: it is just the other way around, we are drawing less and less taxes from economic operators, because we are reducing taxes, but it is true that we are trying to collect them from everyone. So we are also trying to collect these taxes from those who, in recent years, have not necessarily been partners as part of the grey or black economy. So there is a very strong economic whitening in Hungary now, which can be measured as much as a percentage of GDP. So hundreds of billions of dollars, 300-400 billion, are going into the budget, which can be attributed to the whitening of the economy. I think this is a particularly positive development. Obviously, the increase in tax revenue in such amounts and the effect of the other is that there is a very strong economic growth behind us. As has been said in the comments, due to economic growth, increased consumption, increasing consumption revenue and wage dynamics, we can still count on 10% wage dynamics, and contributions and incomes can also increase more and more. So we think that tax levels and rates are falling, but in the amount of tax collected, the nominally significant increase is very significant. We value this absolutely as a success story, a success story, and I certainly don't feel that it can be criticized. Mr Varju also indicated that the competitiveness package that the Minister for Finance had drawn up during the spring did not appear in the current tax package. On the basis of a quick list, I also see five elements that appear from the competitiveness package in the current tax package. The reduction of the socho key has also been achieved in this context, and the adjustment of the key to the reduction of the socho key has also been adopted by Parliament. The fine-tuning of the group taxation system and its introduction are also included in the proposals from the competitiveness package. The abolition of the tax advance charge was also included in the proposal for competitiveness, and the fact that, within or as an element of the tax system, we would like to reduce the number of taxes from 60 to 40, this was also included in the competitiveness package, and we have tried to achieve this quota this year in this bill, where there will be five taxes less if Parliament votes on this package of proposals. I would also respond to the suggestion of Congressman Csárdi. It was said here, too, that the reduction of the socho key is good for large companies, and that the tax package does not give SMEs any benefits. Let me remind you that we do not want to provide SMEs with more and more circumstantial and more complex benefits in corporate tax. If there is such a discount, we will obviously fine-tune it, as has been done in the development tax reduction, but we think that we can give SMEs much stronger and more effective benefits in the tax rules, in the kata and in the way they are specifically focused. That we don't make new rules for this circle, I think that means that we've probably hit these rules right. Because the popularity of these taxes is constantly increasing. More than 330,000 people are now included in the Kata, and 40 000 people have already chosen the kiva, despite the fact that in the first years about 6,000 companies chose this method of taxation. So both taxes are not particularly popular, and the number of taxpayers is increasing particularly well. I think that in this case it is not necessarily necessary to complicate the system by further fine-tuning and by amending the rules. We need these taxes to get to know our businesses. We believe that we still have information in this regard, because we see that at least 80 percent of those who would still be entitled to choose kiva would be better off using the kiva. So we probably also need to launch a stronger information campaign here to get this information to businesses and accountants, so that the kiva tax can be beneficial to them. Mr Csárdi said that we should not expect a miracle from the merger of taxes. The government doesn't believe in miracle. We are trying to create the conditions for supporting positive economic development. So we are not waiting for a miracle, we are actively doing it, and we see that there is a very strong correlation between the number of tax races and the size of the tax administration, in an international perspective there is a very clear straight correlation between the two. So if we can reduce the number of tax races, reduce the fragmentation of the tax system, we can reduce administration and save companies. To give a graphic example, at international level, an OECD study has measured the tax administration burden of an SME and can account for 2-3 percent of its turnover. It's not a Hungarian issue, it's an OECD study. This means that it is practically equivalent to a tax reduction if we can reduce tax administration. So the person who can practically minimize his tax administration by kata or kiva is basically a tax reduction, as if, let's say, a local business tax should not be paid by an enterprise. So I think that in reducing tax administration, there is a huge potential both in time and in material terms. It was also a criticism that there was no need to create jobs for tax relief, so development tax incentives could already be used in the future without creating jobs. I would like to stress here that there has been a phase of the Hungarian economy where it has been able to grow extensively, so we have been able to integrate a lot of workforce into the labour market. It was also said that the number of new jobs is almost over 800,000. But what you need to see is that the potential is shrinking. There are still labour market reserves that we can exploit, but I think we need to move in a direction where we are no longer necessarily moving towards quantitative growth, but qualitative expansion. So we need to move towards improving productivity and improving efficiency. This is why the Tao system will also support this so that an investment can be supported where there may be no need for extra labour due to technological change, but the company obviously retains its existing employees. However, this allows us to bring in a technology that can support productivity and efficiency gains. It could also be discussed for hours, but let me remember for just a minute that it was also said by the Member that SMEs are bound by the tax authority in a strict way and that large businesses are not, while the small ones are discriminated against negatively. I think the best way of showing that this is wrong is that the tax authority's judgment is better than ever. So whatever survey we're looking at, the Chamber of Commerce, the German Chamber of Commerce, the tax authority, the tax administration system is at an unprecedented height in previous years. So the economy recognises that the service provider's tax authority is a fair value, and that the tax authority can really act as a service provider. Let me remind you of the supporting procedures, the mentoring, the fact that the tax administration does not necessarily automatically fine, but first calls on the taxpayer to restore its tax affairs, and if this does not result, then the fine will come. As a result, there was a very positive picture of the nature of the tax authority service provider, but it is important to recall that not all taxpayers are involved. Thus, one of the most important aspects of the transformation of the tax administration was that the tax authority could communicate in a civilised manner. The circle that follows the law meets only with services and support from the tax authority. Anyone who accidentally misses will be assisted by the tax authority and will help to comply with voluntary law. And who is involved in tax evasion, whether intentionally or fraudulently, but there is a very effective intervention and removal. Thus, the tax authority has the ability to select taxpayers more and more specifically on the basis of real-time data and to investigate, so to speak, taxpayers who are really needed. Those who are not, however, are being supported by the tax authority on a service provider basis. Mr Burány also mentioned the number of taxes that the Hungarian Government has increased the number of taxes. It was also said in the pro-government speeches that this was not an accident. So the state of the Hungarian economy was on the brink of disaster in the 2010s, so we had to do the fiscal consolidation with separate taxes that the Fidesz government had done. We have been able to achieve these through crisis taxation, taxation of sectors that have borne this burden, and most of these have also been imposed in 2012 and in the coming years. The taxes that have remained from these times are typically the result of transaction fees, neta, telecommunications tax and insurance tax, and this is the tax system transformation that we have been saying for years that we have imagined in Hungary taxes that are not income taxes, so they are not punishing profit and investment, but rather the services, products, and thus consumption. That is why we think that they are more of an investment and development-friendly tax. [[16.30]] That is why these taxes remain in the system to this day. With the reduction of Socho and the reduction of taxes on labour and the reduction of Tao, a very strong tax reduction was launched in the following years, and now the whole tax reduction is between 2% and 3% of GDP. So the Fidesz government has been in a very massive tax reduction since 2010, and I think that the positive effects of this have already been very well highlighted by the pro-government representatives. Finally, let me refer to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa to suggest that there is no guarantee that the socho reduction will go through the workers' pockets. Here it is to be seen that when there were a very high rate of minimum wage increases earlier, it was apparent that, say, the effect of the wage increase went beyond double the minimum wage, so there was such a spillover effect. However, now that the six-year wage agreement resulted in a massive, strong minimum wage increase in 2017, there was also a very significant wage increase effect in the area of 500-600 thousand forints. So up until now, the effect of this increase in the minimum wage has been prolonged, which means that the labour market is extremely stretched, so employers are forced to raise wages, even if they had to raise wages in the lowest pay categories, so to speak, but there was a need to raise wages in each pay category, because the market forced this wage increase. In this economic environment, the government had to make a decision, so to say, to support us, to support the competitiveness of companies, and that is why it was decided that the government would take action on the employer's side, i.e. on the employer's contribution side, and we would reduce the contributions there. So, basically, the tightness of the labour market automatically forces this socho reduction to migrate to wages, because otherwise, companies would not be able to finance these wage increases. We believe that the facts have confirmed our expectations, as I have said, that the wage increase has gone up to very high pay categories, so the companies have actually passed on the effects of the socho key reduction to the employees. In the context of the socho reduction, the Member also raised the fact that the government was late to deliver this reduction to employers. I would like to note here that the government has considered it important, and this is what has happened, to keep the six-year wage agreement literally. So at the first opportunity, when the real wage increase was actually achieved, so when this 6-percent real wage increase was achieved, the government was at its first opportunity, and it appeared that in exceptional proceedings it had brought this amendment to Parliament, and so it was possible to pay only 17.5 per cent from 1 July in this burden. One final remark, also Mr Z. Carpathian, was raised by Mr Dániel. In the context of the catalog, he mentioned that the retirement expectations of the catatonics were not too high. I think that this is also an innovative solution that we introduced in the Kata in the year of introduction, that it is indeed a standard rate of HUF 50,000, but there is an option: so every katás entrepreneur can decide from the very beginning that he will not pay HUF 50,000, but HUF 75,000, so he will pay a higher fee per month, so in return he will gain a much higher, much higher supply entitlement. So for those of you who care for yourself in this respect, and it is important that you provide yourself with a higher benefit fund and a higher pension plan, you can now use that option today. I think we can trust the wisdom of all the catnip entrepreneurs to take advantage of this opportunity. Thousands of people are using this option, so it's a well-known legal institution. However, thank you for bringing up this question, as I would like to point out in this forum that there is still this possibility, so whoever considers self-care to be important can continue to pay this tax rate of HUF 75,000. I feel that the most critical points or points in which there may have been disagreement were listed. If I look at the speeches as a whole, I consider that the overall response was positive, and I therefore very much hope that a number of groups will support the proposals in the final vote, so I am asking you to do so and thank you very much for your attention. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-06-18-110	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. This brings us to the end of the debate on today's agenda, and we now have a post- Agenda address. After the agenda, Mr Brenner Koloman, on behalf of Jobbik, spoke with the title "The Sopron Region deserves more." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-18-111	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Indeed, the Sopron region deserves more, as this once beautiful, calm, pine-zoned town of citizens has become completely unlivable, especially with regard to the past ten years, thanks to its Fidesz city leadership, we should build another worker hostel. As a citizen of Sopron poncichter, who leads his family tree back to 1730, I find this very, very difficult to live with, along with a lot of people who find it very difficult to experience, for example, that according to recent KSH data, the city's population has officially fallen to 58 thousand, while according to the most conservative estimates, at least twice as much, 120 to 130 thousand people live life in Sopron, unfortunately due to internal migration and migrant workers. This would therefore require very urgent action in order for the Sopron population to receive from the country's budget the subsidies that they would need to receive in proportion to the real population. I, in the current budgetary debate, am presenting the following concrete proposals to this House. First of all, since the hospital in Sopron is in relatively good condition, however, the walls do not cure the patients, because there are very few specialists in the Sopron hospital, because obviously because of the wages, a local doctor goes four kilometers and receives completely different earnings in Austria, so it would be very important to settle the debt of the hospital in Sopron, which is currently 331 million forints according to the currencies of the Hungarian Treasury. That is why I am initiating the settlement of the hospital's debt and, in addition, I am proposing an additional amount of 10 per cent of the budget in order to ensure the effective functioning of the institution. This amount is deducted from government communication tasks, because let's face it that a functioning health care is more important than fake news production and propaganda on Fidesz government money. I also initiated the settlement of the debt of the county social centre, as the social sphere in our Western Hungary region with the salaries that we have heard from other fellow Members in today's parliamentary debates is completely uncompetitive, even if we go to Austria for two days a week to clean up four kilometers away. The divine miracle is that someone still works in the social sphere in this region. Therefore, for the county social centre, I will propose an additional amount of 20 per cent in the amending budget. As I said yesterday, universities and the university world are one of the biggest losers of the 2020 budget, because despite nominal growth, education and, in particular, higher education will once again become stepchildren of the Hungarian budget. One of the most important indicators of the level of development of a society would be how it values the university world and researchers. Here it is very important to point out that only the salaries of university teachers at the highest level of the university hierarchy have increased in recent years, say, up to an apparent amount, but especially with regard to the salary of non-leading teachers, these colleagues often have a scientific degree and a long list of publications, and they do not earn as much as any customer in the Aldi. This cannot continue, so I will initiate the HUF 37 billion increase in the staff allowance section of universities and colleges so that colleagues can finally receive, in particular with regard to non-leading instructors, the wage increase that I believe this budget will allow in this order of magnitude. [[16.40]] Finally, I would like to point out that Jobbik, as a national people's party and as a truly civil and conservative force, would also like to point out with these constructive proposals for amending the budget that Sopron, as an old citizen's town, is at the heart of our hearts. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-18-112	Thank you, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the post-meeting speech. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 8:00 a.m. Meeting day's closed.
