u2019-12-02-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 15th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, I am fulfilling my sad duty to announce that János Horváth died in the 99th year of his life. János Horváth was born on 7 November 1921 in the Cecén Reformed Small Farm. He graduated from elementary and upper marketing school in Budapest. He graduated from the Faculty of Economics of the University of Technology and Economics of József Nádor in 1946. From 1933 he participated in the work of the Hungarian Scout Federation. Between 1938 and 1939, he joined the public life as a member of the Christian Youth Association and the Soli Deo Gloria Reformed Student Association. He's one of the founders of the Raspberry Kalaka Movement. He became a member of the Young Hungarians Association, which brings together the young believers and the circle of trust of Count Paul Teleki. In 1942 he joined the Independent Little Farmer Party, and in 1943 he joined the Hungarian Peasant Federation. In 1944, after the German occupation, he was inaugurated as a member of the Hungarian Community. He was part of the resistance movement. On 14 December 1944, he was arrested and sentenced to death by the Arrow Cross Court. After he was tortured in prison, on January 13, 1945, he managed to escape with more of himself. In February 1945, the Little Farmers' Party was commissioned by the XIII. the establishment of its district organisation. From May 1945 until 1947, he is the economic policy director of the Hungarian Peasant Federation. In October 1945 he was elected member of the Budapest Municipality and then in November of the National Assembly. On 16 January 1947, he was sentenced to three and a half years in the concept suit against the Hungarian Community. Released in 1951, then worked as a worker. In the 1956 Revolution, the National Economic Reconstruction Council and the Kis Farmer's Party XIII. Chairman of his district organization. After the defeat of the revolution, he emigrated and settled in the United States. In 1957 he was one of the founders of the Hungarian Revolutionary Council in Strasbourg. He created the Kossuth Foundation. From 1958 he studied economics at Columbia University and obtained a PhD in economics in 1966. From 1968 he was professor at Butler University. The main areas of research were inflation, unemployment, agriculture and growth. He gave advice to several Presidents of the United States on issues concerning Hungary. After the change of system, he is a visiting professor and honorary doctor of the Budapest University of Economics. He returned home for good in 1997. From 1998, 51 years later, he was once again a Member of Parliament. He held his seat on the list of the Fidesz-Hungarian Civil Party until 2014. Until 2003-2014, he is the interim president of the Parliament. At the end of his career, he is Hungary's travelling ambassador. He died in Budapest on 25 November 2019. In 2006 he was awarded the Officer's Cross of the Order of Merit of the Republic of Hungary. In 2007 he received the American Truman-Reagan Memorial Medal of Liberty, and in 2011 he received the award of the Hungarian American Coalition for his outstanding activities in promoting Hungarian-American relations. In 2011, the President of the Republic awarded the Prime Minister with the grand cross of the Order of Merit of the Republic of Hungary to his presentation in recognition of his activities in the American Hungarian emigration, his role in public life and his exemplary way of life. In 2013 Miklós Radnóti won an anti-racist award, in 2014 he received a Bajcsy-Zsilinszky memorial plaque and a Mindszenty medal. With his death, the great figure of Hungarian parliamentarism left, who personally connected the democratic generation against total dictatorships with the Parliament of the era of system change. I would ask you to honor the memory of our fellow Member with a silent standing. [[The people in this room pay tribute to the memory of the deceased. On the table placed in the room, photos and flowers remind me of János Horváth.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, applied for a pre-meeting speech. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-1	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, In July this year, despite the protests of professional organisations, civil society organisations, parental representatives and opposition parties, Parliament accepted the amendment of the Public Education Act, which excluded the establishment of school maturity in the case of preschoolers from the former system, when this was simply established on the basis of the professional determination of kindergarten and parent, kindergarten, or on the basis of the request of the parent, and ordered the Education Office to carry out this task in a bureaucratic system. Many school psychologists and educators have pointed out that a bureaucratic procedure is not technically appropriate to establish school maturity, since they should think of criteria such as failure tolerance, social viability, psychic social maturity, balance, the existence of self-regulation and so on. So you have to decide on a series of professional things that absolutely do not require an official procedure and which require a deeper, longer knowledge of the child. In addition, for many months they have been unable to make the relevant legislation. In Hungarian, this bill was submitted to the Parliament without any idea of how it would be implemented in reality. Finally, all the time and beyond common sense, at the end of November, the relevant regulation was born, which describes an extremely exciting, adventurous, bureaucratic process, where the parent will obtain the opinion of the kindergarten teacher, possibly the necessary opinion of the speech teacher, and then upload them to the Office's website, the Office will appoint an expert committee, the expert committee will examine the child, and when the expert committee says something, of course, this will not be enough for the office, but eventually, on the basis of the papers, the Office will decide on the child. We all feel that this is a Kafka absurdity with children of six or seven and their parents having this kind of fun. Moreover, it cannot be implemented in practice, since think that, for example, expert committees should examine thousands of children in a month. Where is the capacity for this in Hungary today? We all know, or hopefully at least in the Ministry, although I sometimes doubt the state of the pedagogical service providers, the capacity they have, and how much they are overloaded today. So to put it bluntly, you have created a bureaucratic system that is not good for anyone, and then, for example, if the parent does not appear on the expert committee on his own fault, then the child loses his entitlement. But what a mistake is will be determined again by the Bureau. The office, the office, the office! This provision is nothing but that the child does not matter, the child's interest is not important; it is important that the office can make all the decisions, it is important that they centralise and you decide everything. Of course, the parent can go to court. Please consider your chances and the time and cost of running to, say, a less well-off parent court in a small settlement in such a case. What does that mean for family? Even though they know that the child is not yet educated, even though they know that he is not ready to start school, even though the educator has agreed to do so, they apply, collect papers, submit them, and then hope. Six months from school, but they don't know that this stupid system is forcing their children into a situation where otherwise they're doomed to fail. But I would add that they are also putting schools in a difficult position, because suddenly a large number of children will arrive at these schools, the classes will increase, the classrooms will be scarce, and I would add that there are already few teachers. They can't prepare either, and I appreciate that they're suggesting that we push the deadline for the application by at least two weeks, but that doesn't solve the problems. We know there's a school district where they're talking about teaching in a container school. In the first century, when so many children arrive. [[13.20]] Dear Secretary of State, Now would be a good time to see that this doesn't work, that this system isn't good. Let's just take this back and talk about how to do this right. We're happy to help you professionally, because I don't think I can. But don't push me out with the kids because they're incompetent and because they don't understand education. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2019-12-02-2	I give the floor to Secretary Bence Rétvári.
u2019-12-02-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The government has been the first to have children and families since 2010. That is why we have also introduced the measure to help families where the child's development is not the right age, that we have made school compulsory from the age of three, and that we have also introduced rules in addition to those who, although taking the family allowance, do not regularly take their child to kindergarten, thus endangering the future of their own child, we are also trying to encourage parents who do not take their child to kindergarten by suspending the family allowance. Because we believe that the last year of kindergarten and, above all, of kindergarten is a preschool year, where the child gets that help, he gets the opportunity from kindergarten educators to become really school mature by the age of six. So this measure is not just now, but we have been working for years to build new kindergartens so that the development and development of all children from the age of three can take place. This is most important for those who are behind the others when they are three years old, because it is easier to help someone from the age of three to catch up with their peers than to face this issue at the age of six. This is where we reach after the last year of school preparation from kindergarten to the age of six when children go to school. Of course, there are, and there will always be, children who are at school at the age of six, and there will be others who are not at school. I'm asking you to stop the lie alarm that's about non-school children should go to school when they're six. Of course, this opportunity to stay in kindergarten for another year, so they can spend a total of four years in kindergarten, is still provided. And, honourable Member, when you spoke in your speech, you did not, of course, state that the conditions of school maturity, which is what is necessary in order for someone to be mature, are the same as before, there is no change. The state has more help with compulsory kindergartens from the age of three, but the conditions of school maturity are essentially the same as those of the same experts who have been before, they have not changed either, since they involve the same psychologists, medical educators, consultants or doctors, or the pedagogical centers carry out the same studies that they had done before. In the same way, they use the kindergarten education journal that has been used. There is indeed a change in one thing: there is a change in the fact that the same level of development was considered to be school mature in one settlement in the country and that it was not considered school mature in the other settlement. I don't think it's right for you to think that children with the same abilities will be judged differently just because one was born in one settlement and the other was born in another settlement. As I said, for families, helping all children to reach this level of development at the age of six has been given, and with wage increases and other programmes we have also tried to help them. What is changing is that this may not be based on many hundreds of practices, but that all children in Hungary have been subject to the same school maturity rules, but we are now trying to enforce these rules in the same way in the process, precisely in the interest of the children, so that there is no child who is not mature, but who is sent to school, for reasons of numbers or the like, and vice versa that someone is already matured, so that he should be in school according to his age and development, but still in kindergarten for some other reason, group uploading or other, which is also not in the child's interest. That is why we have created a surface, honourable Member, which is the most twenty-fourth century. There is no opening hours, there is no closed office, but there is a fully digital interface where you can upload all the documents 24 hours a day, on the basis of which documents have been made, and along the same laws that have been in force so far. So here's a line-up-free, one hundred percent of the parents' needs, and one hundred percent of the 21st century. One hundred percent of the requirements of the century are good administration, precisely in order not to get in line, not to go to the post office, not to adapt to the term of office, and when it is good for the family. Honourable Congressman, You offered to help us, and I'm asking for it on behalf of the government. What have you done in the field of education? In 381 places, a lock was placed on the door of the school building. [[Dr. László Varga and Zsolt Gréczy intervene.]] You have set an example not from a modern school, but from a closed school. You took a month's wages in kindergartens and schools from everyone when you were the government secretary of state, honourable Member, and you dismissed 15,000 teachers. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Don't give us any advice. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-02-4	Bertalan Tóth, head of the MSZP faction. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Last week, there were three events that clearly highlight the distorted economic and social policy of Fidesz, in fact revealing areas that clearly indicate the failure of the Fidesz administration. After all, it highlights areas such as education, health and climate change, which are clearly not important to Fidesz. We have heard the Secretary of State that children and families are important to them; it must be admitted that their own children and their own families are extremely important to you. But what were these three events? On Friday, thousands of young people marched onto the streets in Budapest and the larger cities of the country. They drew attention to the climate crisis, the importance of the fight against climate change, and called for immediate action not only by the Hungarian government but also by all the governments of the world. On Saturday, thousands of teachers marched on the streets, raising awareness of the problems of the public education system, demanding higher wages, predictable careers, reducing the number of hours and restoring the possibility of a flexible school start [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: It's flexible now!]] which my fellow Member also spoke about. And on the same day, doctors at the General Assembly of the Hungarian Medical Chamber, a professional representative of the health sector, said that it was enough of the fidesz destruction of health care. After 16 years of overwhelming leadership was chosen under the leadership of Gyula Kincses, who offer both doctors and patients better health care and fight for the way Kincses put it, because they want integrity, patient-friendly, gratuity-free health care. Well, so are we. On behalf of the MSZP, I congratulate the Hungarian Medical Chamber on its decision, President Gyula Kincses, and I wish to offer strength and success and cooperation. Ladies and gentlemen, What was Fidesz's response to these three events? That the participants in the climate demonstration are just being hysterical. President László Fat said that they were brainwashed, who said that climate change is the most important issue in the world today, that they are retarded, who do not want to go to school anyway, and that protests are a good opportunity to skip school. And according to Fidesz, the educating ceremony is not about the interests of teachers, not of students and not of parents, but about an opposition movement funded by some mysterious, unknown network to ultimately destroy Hungary. My fellow Members, it is difficult to find words for these reactions, and yet I do not want to say nasty things. It's not that complicated. It's about people finding out that if they stand together for their interests, they can achieve results. And the Fidesz learned nothing from October 13th, they don't understand anything from today's world. Ladies and gentlemen, On October 13th, many cities and cities were released from the captivity of Fidesz, because people decided that the power of Fidesz was enough. In these settlements, we have to live with the trust we have in us, and we will live with it. We need to present a completely different sense of power and state, a social model. We can take the first step towards the state of chance, because I believe that Hungary needs a state of chance. Poverty, the increase in inequalities and the risk of slipping have reached a critical level. [[13.30]] It will be a real chance if we create modern education, a high level of health care and social security for everyone. We know very well that those who are financially dependent on power cannot defend democracy. These problems can already be helped in free settlements. In these municipalities, substantial steps can be taken to protect the climate by modernising buildings and transforming public transport. In these settlements, the funds will not go to prestige investments, but will invest money in the health of the people, in the education of our children. The children who are starting school will be looking for work around 2030 and will be working for many, many decades. There are huge changes in the pace of science and technological progress. My fellow Members of the Fidesz should also be able to see that politicians are not involved in school, but in school. We should not be taking pictures at school, going to kindergarten during the campaign, but creating conditions for our children to benefit from the 21st century. It's a hundredth-century knowledge. And even though the mouth lock law, the age of darkness ends, after winter comes the spring, in 22 the free Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-02-6	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Several topics have been addressed by the Head of the Group. Allow me to respond in line. In the beginning, you mentioned that the economic structure was distorted, if I recall correctly. Well, in your time, the economy is growing by 5 percent, while the public debt is falling by 7 percent, and I could list indicators that are much better than your time of governance, and we hope that Hungarian people will feel it in their daily lives. As far as protecting the environment is concerned, you try to make it look the other way, but the thing is, if you say that protecting the environment is important, protecting the climate is important, then we agree on that. The only difference between us is between our political community and yours, which means we want to achieve this. We see that the left would put the burden on the Hungarian families. That's not the position we're taking. We would like Brussels to provide more resources, and by the way, the large companies that are primarily responsible for the priority pollution. As far as education is concerned, the government appreciates educators. First, a career model and a wage-raise program for educators. Compared to 2010, we spend 390 billion more on teachers' wages, next year the salaries of 17,000 teachers will increase, the wages of vocational training workers will increase by 30 percent from July, and discussions will take place on the salary increase of school directors. If there are additional wage demands, then the Ministry is open to further negotiations. On the other hand, you took a month's wages, closed hundreds of schools, and generally withdrawn money from education. As far as health is concerned, we spend 724 billion forints more on health than we did in your time. 77 hospitals have been renewed, 54 clinics, and if it's up to us, then we will complete the. Healthy Budapest programme, including a new super hospital in Budapest. I'm asking you not to stop me. The wages of doctors and specialists increased by 82 percent compared to 2010, and the salaries of health professionals have so far increased by 77 percent, which will continue to increase until 2022. You've taken 600 billion from health care, you've taken 16,000 active beds, and you've put 6,000 workers on the street. You mentioned October 13th. If you want to know what to expect, if the MSZP is steering, look at the events of the last few weeks. The ink on the post-election documents hasn't even dried yet, but the steamroller's already started. They want to introduce a real estate tax, in Zugló they have already started raising several types of taxes, they want to introduce congestion charges, they want to limit diesel cars, they want to increase district parking charges and the duration of paying parking. But the first thing they did first of all was make room for all the people of the past and increase their wages with that momentum. One more word about health care. You had a steep pull last week: the new super-hospital in Budapest was voted down. Voted off by Csaba Horváth, voted down by Katalin Tüttő, and voted down by Gy. Erzsébet Németh, too. It was also voted down to provide the capital with a surplus of 50 billion in healthcare for government resources, because the government provides them. [[Szabó Timea: Where is the HUF 50 billion?]] Ideas are going on about paying health care while the resources are being cut. It's not a good way to go. But that's not just what the past is all about. It's also about managing public money. What happened in Kispesten is very instructive, Your Honour. As is well known, local socialist leaders talked about the fact that anyone who doesn't make 100 million forints a year is an idiot. There was also a clear reference to corruption techniques, paybacks and the involvement of the Mayor of Kispest. The local trustee was referred only to as mister 40 percent, and he was told that his salary would have to be increased. And when you were asked about this incident, you said there was nothing to see. And to add to the scandal, they said they didn't recognize them by their voices or their looks, even though they're their own representatives. But for a few minutes last week, they recognized him, so much so that they doubled his crappy trust fund salary. It's doubled, just like it was announced on the recording. So much for the morals of the left and their moral senses. We've come to terms with the fact that the MSZP doesn't change anything, but if they don't change anymore, at least don't think of people as birds. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-02-8	Car-Cake Olivio, representative of the Dialogue. You have the floor.
u2019-12-02-9	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Last week, Mr.Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, summoned a false rumor that I would like to celebrate Trianon together with neighbouring countries. He was talking about title naivety, the evidence of insensitiveness carved in stone and stupidity. On the one hand, it is difficult to accept such a lecture from the representatives of a party who, in 1990, at the time of the commemoration of Trianon in this Chamber, were removed from the Chamber in a demonstration. And on the other hand, it was a disinformation, a deliberate malicious reinterpretation of what I said. Because that's not what I said. As I said at the Hungarian Permanent Conference, we must commemorate the 100th anniversary together with all the parliamentary parties, together with representatives of Hungarians from abroad, in unity and dignity. However, it is also worth consulting, involving and informing neighbouring countries to ensure that there is no tension that strikes Hungarians across the border. I've never said anything else, I've never said anything about celebrating together. I note that it is worth explaining our position not only to neighbouring countries, but also to all European countries and all the great powers, because it is important for the world to know what happened in Trianon a hundred years ago, what has happened since then, what is the fate of Hungarians from abroad, and that there is a country bordering its own ethnic group; if we go hundreds of kilometers from the border, they still speak Hungarian and do not accept the minority and human rights of Hungarians. This story has to be told to everyone, and everyone has to know about it. On the other hand, there was one who really talked about a joint memorial, and that was Zsolt Bayer, your main ideologist, the owner of the 5th party book in your party. And it's not fake news you've been spreading about me, it's a fact, there's a video of it. In 2017 Zsolt Bayer said in Partizan that I would be the happiest man in the world, if it were on the 100th anniversary of Trianon, and not even in Budapest, but in the great Trianon castle, there in Versailles, at a very big table, all the successor states would sit with us, and we could say that a hundred years ago something happened, but we Central European nations, who have been living together for over a thousand years, we now believe that we will respect each other, respect each other's language, culture, religion and faith. We accept that we have to deal with each other for the next thousand years in the same Carpathian Basin, and if we accept that, then the only way we can do that is if we fight. . Reporter question: -And we assume that each other are equal? Zsolt Bayer, of course. If there was such an act on the 100th anniversary, I'd be like this in spirit. Are you now allowed to be represented by a representative or perhaps an ambassador to the government in front of the cameras? Zsolt Bayer: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Well, let's taste this a little bit, my fellow Members, especially Szilárd Németh, who had a good laugh the other day when Mr. Secretary of State brought in the false news. [[13.40]] So we wouldn't even have a joint memorial in Budapest, but in the Trianon castle, where we would fight, and this would be the ambassador of Zsolt Bayer. Well, my consensus-based, dialogue-based philosophy is a bit much. But I wouldn't say insensitive, insensitive; I wouldn't say what Zsolt Bayer said about me on the show, which I can't quote, because otherwise I'll be punished, he used such curse words. But I say, owl, tell the sparrow he's a big head. Mr. Secretary. It's embarrassing, it's gonna be hard to explain, but you're always so good at this, so I'll be curious to hear you separate from the 1990s Fidesz and distance from Zsolt Bayer.
u2019-12-02-10	Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-12-02-11	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Well, first of all, I'd like to put the facts in order in addition to washing the nutmeg. The congressman spoke of a joint memorial. [[Interviews from Dialogue and DK.]] The congressman was talking about a joint memorial, and that's...
u2019-12-02-12	Please, why did you lose your cool so soon? The Secretary of State is on the second sentence. [[There's a lot of noise in the opposition benches.]] But they would also have to listen silently to the 12th sentence according to the house rules or in the spirit thereof. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-12-02-13	Honourable Congressman, They were talking about a joint memorial, that's what they said. What you deny exists is said from your mouth. By the way, last week he also said in response to the interpellation that you were not informed at the Hungarian Permanent Conference about how the Trianon Memorial Year would be celebrated by the government. That's not true either. I was there. Mr. Congressman sat there for two hours in a room with me, and we heard the Prime Minister's briefing on this. If you do not remember what was said, then ask your fellow party members and representatives of the other factions on the opposition side, at least those who were there. There was a representative of other opposition groups there, they can also tell us what information was given about how we would like to make the next year of national cohesion, which would be about Hungarian-Hungarian cohesion at the border and beyond. So you didn't tell the truth about that either. And the other one. If we begin to dissect what parliamentary groups were represented at MÁÉRT, then we can find a group with a parliamentary group that was not there. We could also find a political party, a party of national importance, which was also not represented in the most important forum for cross-border people. And do you know, Congressman, which party is in league with these parties? Your party. With the parties that refused Hungarians from across the border, who voted in 2004 against the unification of the nation, which has been denying the consensus that has been reached here between the other opposition parties and the ruling parties since 2010. You're in league with those parties. One of them is a parliamentary party, led by former Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány, whose economic, cultural and political collapse took place between 2002 and 2010. The other is the Momentum, who put themselves on the political map, even though they are not represented in Parliament, while there is also a Hungarian candidate across the border in Slovakia and Transylvania, more specifically in Romania, they campaigned alongside a Slovak and Romanian politician or political party. While the people from beyond the border, both the Slovakian, the Hungarians from the Highlands and the Hungarians from Transylvania clearly stand up for the political party that represents the Hungarians alone. And, as has been said at MÁÉRT, the point of Hungarian representation is that we support Hungarian ethnic Hungarian parties because it is the only forum and this is the only solution that can ensure that Hungarians from beyond the border can be represented in their country after Trianon. You mentioned the European Union. Once again, the European Union is referred to as the only forum capable of guaranteeing the rights of Hungarians across borders. Well, I should like to inform you that, Mr President, you spoke about this in your speech last time and on the Internet, that, unfortunately, we are the European Union's greatest regret, at the moment, is not the forum that can guarantee the rights of people across the border and national minorities or bring about an adequate level of protection of rights at all. So I would like to ask you, if you have the opportunity for Brussels to change in this respect, to use your lobbying force and your political influence instead of supporting immigrants in the European Union, not supporting the fake civil society organisations that deal with immigration, but the civil society organisations, the real civil society organisations that represent the protection of national minorities. Finally, Congressman, I would ask you and your party to consider continuing to be in a political alliance with those parties that do not support the issue of national cohesion. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-02-14	Now, on Jobbik's side, it's James Peter. I give you the floor.
u2019-12-02-15	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The longest journey begins with one step. Dear fellow Members, you are taking the many steps to build a regime, but on this path you will fail. As a first step, you shredded the legislation in Hungary. They reached the conclusion that they were sitting two thirds in Parliament, that by the way, most Hungarian people did not vote for Fidesz. Then they got to grind the execution, because even though they're on the government, they're not really steering, they're just trying to stay in power. Then they shredded the justice system; that's why they're still out there. Then they shredded the media, fooling people with propaganda that Soros has a dangerous plan, and I could tell you, I don't, we know that. Then, fellow Members, there was a municipal election, where you received a huge slap from the Hungarian electorate, and it turned out that even though you shredded these four branches of power, the immune system of Hungarian society is still much stronger than the Fidesz virus. Therefore, they saw the time now to grind the fifth branch of power. Do you know what that is, fellow Members? I'm looking at Szilárd Németh here. No, he doesn't. That's what thinking is. Knowledge. Colleagues! At the municipal elections, it became clear that Hungarian people, indeed, have a dangerous plan, and that they are thinking. They're thinking, and they can't be fooled by government propaganda, because thinking people don't need government lies, they need government performance. Growing wages, quality health care, modern education. But since there is no government performance, you will now grind up thinking, just because you think that besides the production line, we don't need knowledge, we just need tolerance. To endure a 12-hour shift, to endure humiliating wages, to endure poor working conditions. And according to you, the Hungarian education system has nothing more to do than prepare our children for this. Prepare them to tolerate and be good slaves to your strategic partners, the multinationals. Let's see how they do it. You know, when you're six, they push the kid into the school bench, even if he's not ready for school. The Hungarians are losing weight, the slave is losing weight. They turn the children into 40-person classes, where they get the curriculum from tired teachers, 8:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. or 4:00 p.m., and then the child goes home to prepare for the next day. For the record, you've already done your 12-hour shift here, so that you can go to bed dead tired, and you can start all over again tomorrow. And that is how it goes, fellow Members, until the child feels that he is ready to be a slave. If you're ready ten years from now, you can go to the production line at the age of 16. Just because this is not a vision for a Hungarian youth, they are fleeing abroad, fellow Members. This is what you expect of young Hungarians. And we think that this is not what they need, but that they need knowledge, quality knowledge. Colleagues! Today, the education system lacks thousands of teachers. If you look at the wages, a Romanian teacher already earns 30,000 forints more than his Hungarian colleague. Our education system is coming to an end, and what are you doing? They'll figure out how to shoot Hungarian astronauts at the Hungarian sky in five years. Well, I'm blowing my mind, fellow Members. Let's say if they wanted Viktor and Lolsóke back in orbit, a country would applaud. But that you want to conquer space when there's no doctor in hospitals, there's no teacher in school, there's no skilled worker in construction? ! Well, look in the mirror. If you want a lunar landscape, I'll take you to Borsod, show you free. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] But before they want to conquer space, I beg you to land on the ground and see the reality. Of course, you can clearly see the reality. You obviously know what is needed for quality education, which is why your own children are being forced to go to international private schools, which are supported by the Hungarian state with 300 million. [[13.50]] Meanwhile, in public schools, the toilet rots, the plaster collapses, and the teachers are tired. You want high-quality education for your own children, and you want the poor one to have the 40-person class and the crumbling plaster and the tired teacher? We do not want such education, fellow Members, but one where not only the rich, but also the poor, have access to quality knowledge, where the burden of students and teachers is reduced, and wages are rising, where we are not adapting the six-year-old child to the law, but we are adapting the law to our children in order to become balanced adults in a country I hope will eventually be balanced and freed. Fellow Members, the longest journey begins with one step. The teachers who protested here in Kossuth Square on weekends are taking the manyth step for our children and for this country. Thank them for this. Now I just want to know when you're gonna take the first step for this country, because we're really looking forward to it, especially the exit. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-12-02-16	Mr. Balázs Orbán Secretary of State is next. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I'd like to start with the elements in which we agree. You mentioned in your speech that the Hungarian people were thinking and voted on 13 October and on the previous elections that they were thinking when they cast their votes. I say we agree on that. As a result, for example, in the elections to the European Parliament, where Jobbik had yet to start alone, he received 6 percent. He received six percent, while a year ago Jobbik's support was about 20 percent; so there is agreement in this regard. On the issue of education policy, Mr Rétvári State Secretary has already informed Parliament in quite detail in this regard. I'd like to share some data with you. In 2020 there will be 645 billion forints more in education than in 2010 and 60 billion more in 2019, so Hungary spends almost 5 percent of GDP in the sector above the European average. In the last 30 years, school development has not been as extensive as it is now, and teachers' salaries have increased by 50 percent on average. We think that all this can be strongly opposed to the failure of the pre-2010 education policy, because there were huge differences between schools, and education in the small settlements you mentioned was completely impossible. Former school maintainers, so the municipalities were indebted to poor economic performance and government evisceration, so they had to take over HUF 1300 billion of debt from the municipalities. I suppose there is no discussion between us that if the school's maintainers are indebted, then the schools are indebted, and what is more, they were in bankruptcy before 2010. There were no fewer than 381 places where education ceased in the country before 2010. And why is that important? It is important because it was for this reason that a government with which you are now flying in a political alliance will run together in the elections, and these good results that I have just mentioned in this alliance will succeed you. On the other hand, we also have a lot to do in the area of education policy, but we have managed to improve the competitiveness of education. As I said, a 50 percent wage increase has been made, and the Cabinet is open to further wage increases in the coming years. There are therefore around HUF 276 billion worth of educational investment and renovation in 800 sites in the small settlements you mentioned. Consequently, 625 schools can develop and expand. Here in front of the House, we have also discussed the issue of nursery seats. Now there are 51,000 cradle seats in the country, which represents an increase of about one and a half times compared to 2010 figures, and the government has promised to extend these seats to 60,000 by 2020 and 70,000 by 2022. From the age of three, as has also been the case, kindergarten education has become mandatory so that it can properly prepare you for school in small settlements that you have mentioned once more. We have introduced everyday physical education, the school development program has built 47 new gymnasiums and 51 school schools. More than 1 million children receive free textbooks in the 1-9th grade, while the other classes receive the textbook free of charge. This programme will be further extended from 2020 onwards, with free textbooks for all pupils in primary and secondary education. We have tripled the cost of eating children, and now, thanks to God, there is about HUF 82 billion available for this purpose. There is an unprecedented digital development in schools, with 45,000 laptops and 24,000 tablets in schools before the start of the 2008 school year. So once again, we have a lot to do. Of course, any investment in education is an investment in the future, so the government considers this area a top priority. But we can say that we have made progress in recent years, and it is also apparent that the political structure and the political federal system in which you start and move do not serve the development of Hungarian education. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-02-18	Erzsébet Schmuck, on behalf of the LMP, also made a statement before the agenda. You have the floor, please.
u2019-12-02-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Today begins the 25th climate summit in Madrid. The stakes are high, the UN's environmental programme, UNEP, published its latest report a few days ago, the message of which is that humanity has lost the fight against climate change. I suppose you can appreciate the significance of this. As a reminder, in 2015 at the Paris Climate Summit, it was agreed that the temperature increase should be kept within 2 degrees Celsius compared to the pre-industrial revolution, but the desired goal is one-and-a-half degrees Celsius. What's happened since then? It's basically nothing. Everything goes on as if it wasn't this climate summit. Last year, CO2 emissions reached a peak. According to the UNEP report published now, CO2 emissions should be reduced by 7.6 percent per year by 2030 if we are to achieve the Paris climate target. What we need to see, ladies and gentlemen, is that processes are taking place in Hungary, too, contrary to the objectives set. It's not about reducing CO2 anymore. Although the government communicates that we are climate champions, from 2014 the annual increase in CO2 emissions in Hungary is more than 5 percent. Well, how that's gonna go down by 7.6 percent, I don't think it's gonna happen, and nothing's gonna happen if it's up to the government. Allow me to welcome here in Parliament the European Parliament's decision in Strasbourg, by which it announced the climate crisis, and the fact that there is an environmental crisis and an environmental emergency. I also congratulate the pro-government representatives of the European Parliament, who were courageous and dared to vote on this proposal for a resolution, despite the fact that the government does not allow it here in the Hungarian Parliament. At the Madrid Climate Summit, which began today, the European Union will represent the need to achieve a 55 per cent CO2 reduction by 2030 and to make the European Union carbon neutral by 2050. And what do we say? What does the Hungarian government say? The Hungarian government says that we can be satisfied with the 40% reduction. I think that this is unacceptable, because Hungary is particularly exposed to the consequences of climate change. Last week, at the meeting of the Committee on Sustainable Development, there were several proposals for a decision on the announcement of a climate crisis. I invited Mr. Prime Minister to the meeting and invited Mr. Mayor Gergely Christmas. I invited the Prime Minister because we cannot have a substantive debate on this issue here in plenary. I thought the committee was a good opportunity to discuss these issues together. No surprise, the Prime Minister did not come; Mayor Gergely Christmas came and briefed the committee on the planned steps. I suppose it is no surprise that the Committee on Sustainable Development has decided on the inclusion of climate-related proposals for decisions: it has been unanimously voted out, and has not even abstained. [[14.00]] However, the proposals for decisions contained many important and good steps. For the first time, the LMP presented its proposal for a decision to announce the climate crisis in early May, and if you had allowed this to be on the agenda and to accept it, Hungary would be most likely to have a climate bill today. We are increasingly lagging behind, and the European Commission has also announced that it will develop a climate law, just as Germany's climate law has recently been adopted in Germany, even though it started recently. This would be very necessary, because the power of the law should be to set goals, assign resources and resources. Ladies and gentlemen, We don't have time. We do not have time for the government to make a double speech, that there is climate change or that there is no climate change. The time for empty speech and hidden consultations is over. Action must be taken, and people and young people want to act. This is why the LMP launched a green vote this week. We want to give people an opportunity to decide their future, because the future will be either green or not. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-12-02-20	I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-21	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear Parliament, The thing is, I agree with you, and we agree with you, that the protection of the created world, the preservation of our environmental heritage and the work to be done against climate change are important issues. It is so important that, in our view, this should appear as a national interest above party policy, since this is about the future of our own children. For this reason, the period when they feel that they can take over any topic for political purposes, such as climate protection, could finally be over. My request, honourable Member, is that you do not doubt that over 200,000 people have completed the questionnaire published by the government. [[Péter Ungár: Another success of government communication?]] And with that, they'll lose the last straw they can hold onto. The fact is, you have no concept of protecting the created world, our environmental heritage, realistic and feasible scenarios. [[Péter Ungár: Close the Mátra Power Plant!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The grand scheme that the Balliberal opposition threw at public opinion at the end of the week means they can only run after the events. But now it is not the promise, but rather the time for action that has come with you, and this highlights again the falseness of unity, by the way. Because there is no agreement between you, everyone is focused solely on their own cause, their own survival. The great cooperation suddenly vanished, bidding against each other, trying to gain support for themselves, and doing so only in the interest of their political survival. [[Péter Ungár: This is new in a parliamentary democracy...]] Consider, for example, what happened in Budapest after the announcement of the climate crisis announced as a great campaign promise. So far, we see one thing: they created a new position, the deputy mayor responsible for climate protection: Dávid Doros was given 1.3 million HUF salary and car. We are also looking forward to further details. [[Péter Ungár: What did you vote for?]] And we also think that everyone has the right to make suggestions, initiate online consultations, collect signatures, and we are ready for dialogue with everyone who acts in the interests of the Hungarian people. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and There's nothing new about the measures you think are novum, and you keep saying the same thing, and secretly, let's face it, they're cheating on the government. [[Peter Ungár: Oh, my God! Depletion in the lines of the LMP.]] Most of the measures that you are proposing, which can be achieved with common sense and the sustainability of the Hungarian economy, have already been taken by the government, and we continue to work to make Hungary, the Hungarian families and the Hungarian economy the winner of the processes that have changed as a result of climate change. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The government is acting against you. As you try to address this issue, it shows that you are not really interested in the subject, but only in the political benefit. Do you remember what happened here in Parliament almost a year ago? Of course they remember that they disturbed and tried to prevent the work of this House by their conduct and conduct. And do you remember that there was a climate debate that you proposed a year ago, too? They probably don't remember that much, because they weren't here. They did not appear on your day of debate, unlike the government and representatives of Fidesz-KDNP. The fact is, honourable Member, that Hungary has strong climate protection objectives, action plans and allocated resources. As a result of the measures taken so far, we have achieved very good results in terms of reducing emissions. The country's greenhouse gas emissions have decreased by one third since 90 and we are in the ninth place in EU comparison. [[Péter Ungár: CO2 emissions have increased!]] With regard to the production of climate-neutral energy, Hungary is now performing better than most countries in the European Union. Among other things, Austria, Cyprus, Ireland, Malta, Portugal and Spain have not only reduced greenhouse gas emissions but also increased greenhouse gas emissions in recent years. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-12-02-22	On behalf of the KDNP, István Simicskó is next. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-23	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Health is a high value, many of the health determinants support the fact that genetics is primarily about 20%, environmental impacts are also about 20%, lifestyles are 45-50 percent, and health institutions have a standard of care of 10-15 percent of people's health. The government has launched a number of programmes for both healthy lifestyles and health institutions, in addition to prevention, prevention, sport and the introduction of daily physical education, in addition to the development of health institutions and hospitals. By 2026 Budapest intends to implement about four center hospitals, 11 medical institutions, 13 co-hospitals and 32 specialized clinics, and to support it with a value of HUF 700 billion. It's an excellent program, it's about people, it's about people's health, it's about maintaining health. Nevertheless, we have received many criticisms in recent years that we should spend even more on health care. Although, I must say, I remember back in 2006, when you, the government you created, dismissed 5,000 medical workers from Hungarian health care so much about credibility and criticism. Obviously, at the municipal elections in October, you have been given the opportunity in many places, in many districts, in many cities, so you are now the mayor of Budapest. Honestly, what's happened in the last few weeks, months, is very difficult to follow. On the part of the new metropolitan leadership so far, I can certainly see that they can't even solve the snow situation with regard to statements, climate protection and climate crisis. Several different statements were made regarding the organisation of the World Athletics Championship in the center hospitals and health institutions. From József Katona's Bánk Bánk bán, listening to these statements, the II. In preparation for the assassination of András's former wife, Gertrudis, I am reminded of the sentence that you should not be afraid to kill the queen if everyone agrees, I am not against it. Somehow, it's a little Christmas Gergő sentence, I think it's worth thinking about. It is worth openly admitting this issue as well. I'm saying this because last week, Wednesday, the Metropolitan Assembly made a decision. This decision has obviously been voted in favour, thanks to your decision, of the opposition mayors delegated by you in a general assembly. This decision was not to support the construction and investment of the South Buda Centre Hospital, nor to contribute to health improvements, nor to their financing. [[Laszlo Varju: You're lying!]] In fact, the two proposals of the Fidesz amendment, which concerned the construction of the super-hospital, were voted down and would have provided an annual capital contribution of 10 billion to the modernisation of health institutions. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: Why not 20?]] Then something very specific happened, and I say this as a newbuda: a day later, there was a council meeting in Újbuda, and then your DK mayor took a decision to support it. [[14.10]] So it's not and it's not a very specific and interesting dilemma. As a KDNP politician, I think I can safely say that politics in principle is important, and it should also be important for you. There is a politician in principle and there is a pragmatic politician, but it overrides everything, as your representatives have now decided on this issue. There is a folk saying, and this saying is: I have strong and unbending principles, the first of which is that I must always be flexible. But so much so, fellow Members? However, this flexibility is more, and people do not expect you to do so. Yes, the people of NewBuda, and everyone, expect to be honest about what they want in terms of developments in the capital; the people of NewBuda rightly expect a clear answer to this question. I trust that sooner or later they will come forward, and I hope that the government's programme, which is about preserving the health of Hungarian people, will be supported by the construction of new superhospitals, because everyone must support it, because the health and health of Hungarian people cannot be discussed. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-02-24	Once again, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2019-12-02-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, since the municipal elections, if someone is thinking with natural, common sense, he cannot understand what has happened to the left-wing politicians of the capital here in Parliament and sometimes in the Budapest Assembly and in the XI. In the district, they are opposed to building a super hospital in South Buda. What it takes to be a politician who is responsible for a district or capital city, responsible for the happiness of the people of the capital district, responsible for his health, a 100% government investment, XXI. Are you saying no to a hundredth-century hospital? How many times have we talked here, in Parliament and elsewhere about the fact that in other countries, where a whole new hospital is being created, it can be the most modern care, since the whole building, with accessibility, with a rescue station, with a helicopter, with sick roads, by connecting or separating different parts, is being created so that it can guarantee the highest standard of modern health care. And when the government is also committed to preparing and planning for the newest and state-of-the-art hospital in Hungary, when we accept every single law on the budget that this Parliament has accepted, that one year, the next year, we spend 30 billion forints on preparing and planning the newest and state-of-the-art hospital in Hungary, then suddenly after a municipal election, not having any impact study or transparent consultation that was announced before them for all their decisions, but simply without them, so obviously there is no reconciliation or impact assessment, making political decisions, a 100% government investment by politicians and opposition politicians in the capital, starting to oppose a health superhospital development, and voting against it in the Metropolitan Assembly. They do not help or add anything of their own knowledge, but create obstacles for the government to build a new super-hospital from this 700 billion HUF programme of Healthy Budapest, which would also be positive for the people of Budapest, but obviously also for other agglomeration settlements in the area of South Buda, because if necessary, patients would be brought to this super-hospital, and we can say that it would be a very positive development in the care of nearly one and a half million people. I think all Budapesters have been caught as a cold shower that elected members of the Budapest Assembly do not support the development of this super hospital, honourable Member. We have managed to renovate 91 hospitals in recent years, we have renovated 54 clinics, 107 rescue stations, we have also built 23 completely new clinics, and we have built 34 completely new and state-of-the-art rescue stations in Hungary, and we have also bought 800 completely new ambulances. But obviously, in every settlement where there had been hospital development, it became a new rescue station, a new clinic, and these settlements were happy about it, and where they knew, they helped, not dribbled, these improvements. Here in Budapest, too, in the last year, new diagnostic machines have been purchased that have increased the diagnostic capacity of Budapest by 10 percent, so that it is possible to determine exactly who suffers from the disease and to start curing it as soon as possible, which can further reduce the waiting lists. The government's progress in reducing the waiting list has been quite significant so far, but we can now make very big progress in diagnostics as well. If you look at the program, the outpatient care, which would be entirely the responsibility of the local authorities, it contains HUF 58.6 billion. There is HUF 58.6 billion in the program of Healthy Budapest, traced as a source to what is not a government task, because it is not hospital building, it should be guaranteed by the local authorities, it should be generated from their municipal revenues, but the government says that it is here in Budapest, with a much higher value, with HUF 58.6 billion in value, that it is legally required to commit zero forints. Since the health of the people of Budapest and the people of Budapest are important to the government, it has undertaken that in 32 places we can develop outpatient care from government sources, as required by the law, and this is also the case in Budapest: if I only look at my own district, it can cover basic care in more than 50 percent of the settlements, in 18 out of 34 settlements, not from local sources, but from government sources, from the So the government has made new commitments in Budapest and in the Central Hungary region beyond its own responsibilities [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] And that's why we're all in a cold shower, the news is that the leaders in charge of the district or the capital are trying to stop it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-02-26	Before the last agenda today, Mr Szilárd Németh, on behalf of Fidesz, is speaking. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In recent weeks, there has been a very serious, dangerous situation at the southern border and a very alarming situation for all of us. We are only lucky that most of the Parliament's Fidesz-KDNP started working years ago to establish that we can preserve Hungary and the security and freedom of the Hungarian people, because our soldiers and police officers on the border are doing their job, and we have made the opportunity in which the government could declare the crisis caused by mass immigration, which gives the legal basis for all of it. Moreover, this situation, one of its elements, the transit zones, was confirmed by the Court of Strasbourg two weeks ago, as it swept aside all the accusations that the Hungarian opposition and the pro-immigration bureaucrats in Brussels wanted to put on our backs, namely that we were cruel to immigrants arriving here and that we were holding them in transit zones. Well, according to the court's decision, the operation of transit zones is not considered as detention or even a very positive element for the protection of the Schengen, European and Hungarian borders. But look at the numbers. Last year there were 6506 captures, and this year until November 30, it's already doubled, 12 538. Let's see, then. Last year's average is 17 a day, and this year's average is 37, but this increase is not the usual increase in the summer schedule, but the number of captures has increased in the last few weeks, in the last two months, between October and November. Yesterday, for example, this is an eloquent proof of more than twice that 37 average, 82 border offenses were captured by border guards. If you look at the number of smugglers against whom a case has been filed, 126 cases have been filed last year, and 129 have already been prosecuted by mid-November this year. So the pressure is increasing if you like, they are under siege of the Hungarian technical and legal border lock. And the reserves are tremendously large, because in Turkey, the people who have been registered and who are, in general, being shot up by migration organisations, in particular the UN High Commissioner for Migration, place migrants who are now in Turkey between 3.6 million and 6 million. And there is an even more shocking number: Turkey on the eastern and southern and northern borders, i.e. in the illegal migration towards them this year, in 11 months, has detained 405 252 migrants, which is 60 percent more than what was done in 2018. [[14.20]] If you look at the relations between the Greeks and the Western Balkans, there are now 103 500 registered migrants in Greece. Most of these, a large part of them are located on the five islands, and on these islands the Greeks have developed hotspots so that they do not have to protect the border I think we can see this clearly, but these hotspots have a capacity of 7,600 people, and five times this, there are more than 35 thousand migrants on these five islands. So the Greeks are forced to push these migrants up, towards the Western Balkans, towards the Western Balkan countries, so to Hungary, towards the Schengen border of Hungary. So if you like it, the fear that we have in mind is that once these things are thrown into the country, there will be a very big problem, this is on the threshold. We therefore propose to the Government of Hungary that we continue to maintain the crisis caused by mass immigration. And now we have a strange time in our lives, because we have the advent period, the waiting period, which is mobilizing those who want to make trouble, want to cause scandal, and even want to carry out acts of terrorism in the country, so that the migrants who are pushed towards us can be put on it. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] their trained men. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-12-02-28	I give the floor to Secretary of State Károly Kontra in response, please.
u2019-12-02-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Today, security is the most important community value, which determines our daily lives, determines the opportunities for our growth and development. This is the most important thing for everyone to be safe, especially during this advent period, but every day of the year. As you have said, we have seen a significant increase in the number of people who have attempted illegal border crossings in Hungary in the last period, especially in the last month. As you said, in 2018, 6506 people tried to enter Hungary illegally throughout the year, until 30 November 2019 this number was 12 538 and, as you said, 82 people wanted to enter Hungary illegally during yesterday. They were escorted by border hunters, escorted back to Hungary, and were unable to get into Hungary. I would also like to underline that the Government of Hungary provides all the conditions to ensure that border hunters, soldiers and policemen can effectively protect borders, because this is our most important national value and interest in protecting the safety of Hungarian people and protecting Hungarian borders. Let's look at what the pan-European situation looks like. There is increasing movement on the western Balkan route that affects us most, and they also experience this on the border sections of Serbia, Croatia, Romania and Ukraine. So far, 100,000 illegal immigrants have been registered in the Western Balkans; in Slovenia, there is a 72 percent increase compared to last year. It is an important circumstance that most people do not come from countries where there are military conflicts, from which they should flee. It is worth studying Turkey separately, because about 4 million immigrants are staying here, and it is not over, because 400,000 attempts to cross the border were reported by mid-November. It is a fundamental question for us that Turkey opens its doors, as it has already set out in recent months, and if it opens it, then it is a question of what direction, towards Syria or Europe. If it is the latter, then we can go back to days like 2015 though we do not want to. Dear Parliament, In these circumstances, it does not matter what position Brussels decision-makers take on this issue. I am not exaggerating when I say that the European Union has not been able to resolve the issue of illegal migration in recent years, has given poor answers, has pursued a pro-immigration policy, and has not considered it a priority to protect borders. We hope that there will be a change in this, because this is not only in the interests of Hungary and the Hungarian people, but also in the interests of all European Union citizens. We hope that today's Justice and Home Affairs Council will also be a sign of positive change. But until this happens, Hungary will do everything in its power to protect the external borders instead of quotas. I would add that Hungary has received almost no support in this respect; we have a promise of EUR 20 million, and it has not even arrived. So it can be said that we are spending more than EUR 1 billion on border protection. However, I would also like to point out that the DK-s and, in particular, Klára Dobrev, Ferenc Gyurcsány's wife, spoke without hesitation on one of the TVs about the fact that DK's position on compulsory plantings is clear: they do not support it. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai's intervention.]] You really can't make a fool out of everyone. [[Gergely Harvesto: You're a little confused, Charles!]] In addition to the mandatory quota, signatures have been collected, and left-wing representatives have previously supported it in the European Parliament, and Klára Dobrev denies it all. The apple didn't fall far from the autumn tree. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: The electric scooter should be dealt with...]] And hundreds of tricks, amazing! Dear Parliament, Allow me to return to the events of the past few days and bring you one thing. The other day's Facebook booking of Zoltán Szabó, DK, is very typical of the opposition's attitude. As a soil expert, he explains how much migrants had to dig in order to dig up the tunnel under the border lock and then step on the cops with a pair of feet because they didn't notice it sooner. [[The intervention of Dr. Agnes Vadai and Gergely Arató.]] Read this: it is a serious insult to the police, which we reject here in Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, You shouldn't insult the police, you should insult the soldiers. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I'd rather settle your salary.]] the border hunters, but thank them for protecting the borders of Hungary and the European Union, the borders of Europe for years. If you have no intention and courage to thank me, an apology would be fine. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-12-02-30	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present further speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2019-12-02-31	Dear Parliament, On the day after today's agenda, he applied for the speech: Tibor Nunkovics, Jobbik; László Hajdu, DK; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP.The following representatives applied for the speech before the agenda: Zsolt Gréczy, DK; Tamás Mellár, Dialogue; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; Péter Ungár, LMP; Tibor Nunkovics, Jobbik; János Latorcai, KDNP; Erik Bánki, Fidesz. On the day after the agenda, he applied for the speech: Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; Zsolt Becsó, Fidesz; Gergely Tapolczai, Fidesz; Zsolt Nyitrai, Fidesz; Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; György László Lukács, Jobbik; Gergely Farkas, Jobbik; László Lóránt Keres, LMP; István Apáti, independent; Dóra Dú, independent.
u2019-12-02-32	Dear House, We now have the credentials and the representatives' oaths. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the National Election Committee has issued a parliamentary mandate to Mr László Szakács on the joint national list of the Hungarian Socialist Party and the Dialogue for Hungary, as well as to Mr László Sebian-Petrovszki, on the national list of the Democratic Coalition, as a result of the resignation of Mr Imre László. On the basis of the electoral documents László Sza-kács and László Sebian-Petrovszki's credentials were discussed before the meeting. I now give the floor to Mr János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee on immunity, who will give the result of the examination of the mandate in accordance with the specific rules of the House 9. He shall report to the Parliament in accordance with paragraph 2 of Section 2. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2019-12-02-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I add that the President said that József Tóbias has issued his vacant mandate to MEP László Szakács on the Election Committee. This took place on 20 November 2019, so this decision was dated at that time, so it became final on 23rd, and the letter of appointment was received. Congressman László Szakács informed the Committee that there is no conflict of interest with him, and therefore the Committee decided unanimously to propose to the Parliament that Mr László Szakács' mandate be confirmed by Parliament. In the other case, Imre László, a representative of the Democratic Coalition, resigned. To this vacant place, as has been said, Mr László Sebian-Petrovszki has been given the mandate by the National Election Committee. This decision of the committee is also final, and the Member has taken over his credentials. He informed us that there was no conflict of interest in him. The necessary documents have been submitted, and therefore the committee has unanimously decided here to propose that the Parliament confirms the Member's mandate. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[14.30]]
u2019-12-02-34	Dear House, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that a proposal to amend the report on the outcome of the examination of mandates cannot be submitted, and the mandates are confirmed by the Parliament individually, without debate. First, we decide on the mandate of László Szakács. So I ask the Honourable Parliament to justify László Szakács's mandate. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House unanimously confirmed László Szakács's mandate by 163 votes in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament to justify the mandate of László Sebian-Petrovszki. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the House also confirmed the mandate of László Sebian-Petrovszki with 165 votes in favour and no votes and no abstentions. Now the solemn oath of the elected representatives and the signature of the oaths. I invite Mr László Szakács and Mr László Sebian-Petrovsk to come to the centre of the Chamber and take their oath. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Believer to read the text of the oath and the Honourable Parliament to listen to it standing up according to our custom. [[The people in this room stand up. László Szakács and László Sebian-Petrovszki step into the center of the room. Dezső gullible reads the words of the oath.]]
u2019-12-02-35	I, László Szakács/László Sebian-Petrovszki vow to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, to keep its legislation and to keep it with others. [[Dr. László Kács adds:]] So help me God. [[László Sebian-Petrovski adds:]] I will do everything in my power to restore the republic and give the country a new democratic constitution.
u2019-12-02-36	Dear Parliament, The oath papers will now be signed. I ask Mr. József Móring to prepare the oath papers for signature and the elected Members to sign them. [[It's happening. Attila Móring, who signed the oath document, congratulates Dr. László Szakács and László Sebian-Petrovszki and gives them a copy of the signed oath document. Dr. László Szakács and László Sebian-Petrovszki were the first to be congratulated by Dr. Bertalan Tóth, Timea Szabó, Ferenc Gyurcsány, Dr. László Lóránt Keresztes, Péter Jakab, Péter Harrach, György Balla and Imre Ritter.]] Dear Parliament, Allow me to congratulate Members László Sza-kács and László Sebian-Petrovszki on their election on behalf of the Parliament and myself and wish them success in their work. I declare that the number of Members of Parliament is 198. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal for a derogation from house rules. At last week's meeting, the House Committee initiated the Parliament to depart from the house rules on this day's sitting by saying that Erika Kissné Köles is a minority spokesperson prior to the decision on the agenda's proposal, with the title of the future of the Slovenian Rába region, entitled HHSZ 18. It may speak for a period of five minutes by the application of paragraph 5 of this Article. The proposal for a derogation from the house rules was made by H/8306. can also be found on the website. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the proposal to derogate from the house rules. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the House unanimously adopted the proposal by 167 votes in favour. Accordingly, Erika Kissné Köles will now have a five-minute speech before the minority spokesperson's agenda. Speaking lady, you have the floor.
u2019-12-02-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Spoštovani Gospod Predsednik, spoštovane gospe Poslanke in gospodje Poslanci, cenjeni Zbor! Prinašam Vam vsem prisrčen adventni pozdrav iz slovenskega Porabja na Madžarskem! Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear House, Welcome to the Slovenian Rába region in Hungary. In the 3rd border of the Hungarian-Slovenian-Austrian border, about 80 percent of the Slovenians live in seven villages and in Szentgotthárd. We live, although our existence on the western border in the past has greatly affected our destiny, it has blocked the opportunities for our economic development. With endurance, strong will, the protection of our cultural values, and the support of our Christian faith, we have moved to the post - regime change period. We have strong control over the shaping of our future in the interests of our community and our country, with the growing minority civil and political organisations, public education, cultural institutions and media. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] In the last decade, Hungary's Government, through the Ministry of State for Nationalities, has helped us to achieve spectacular renovations, but the renovation of the Baroque church of Szentgotthárd, the centre of the Slovenian Rába region, is also carried out with the government's dedicated support. I'll also translate our thanks. However, our small number of communities cannot achieve economic development on their own, yet we look forward to it with the inspiring power of confidence. The Government of Hungary is 1618/2019. The Slovenian Rába region decided to support its regional development programme. Thank you very much for the Government's decision, we thank you for your assistance in the preparation of the regional development programme, the Ministry of Finance staff and the support attitude of our Member of Parliament. Beyond the sum of HUF 898 million per four years, we have received support to boost our economic lives, besides the amount of money, the political will to develop the region is a confidence for the Slovenians in Hungary that the continuation will also be effective. Government support can make a significant contribution to the fight against our main ambition, the depopulation of the countryside. We need to explain our wonderful countryside, our culture to the population of Hungary, infrastructure, tourism, the development of tourism, the protection and exploitation of our priority natural values, our lands and forests in a traditional way learned from our grandparents is a priority for development. Our aim is to keep young people in place, to put an end to the economic conditions trapped in a 40-year-old confinement, and to create the conditions of economic life that will enable them to make a safe living. Work, XXI. We have to provide centuries of conditions at home, in the Slovenian Rába region in Hungary, which is no longer mixed with the more well-known neighbouring Őrség region. With this, our dual identity, language and culture live and live by law. We expect further confirmation from the rapid and successful development of the Szentgotthárd vocational training school that it will also host our Slovenian students in modern conditions with attractive training offers. By setting up a church school in Szentgotthárd, we can achieve further strengthening of public education institutions. Szentgotthárd, the development of our city is also important to us. In addition to boosting industrial production, it must be an attractive city of tourism and cultural events, as a partner of the Slovenian population, for our common future. Ladies and Gentlemen, I wish that the Advent period of December, in the hearts of all of us, would be a month of genuine love and care, understanding and goodwill towards one another, and that the year 2020 would remain a year of caring, blissing, much productive work. I wish you blessed, peaceful, happy holidays. [[14.40]]
u2019-12-02-38	Thank you very much, Madam Speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome all of you back to the meeting. On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Miklós Soltész responds to his speech by a spokeswoman. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-12-02-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Speaker Woman, First of all, I would like to point out in relation to your contribution that it was a good decision nearly six to seven years ago that we changed the national laws and opportunities so that the 13 nationalities in Hungary could be represented here, within the walls of Parliament. In the first four years, 13 spokespersons, now one Member, full MP from the Germans, and 12 spokespersons do this work. As a result, over the last few years, we have been able to jointly establish and implement a series of support schemes that are a guide wherever we go in the world. Wherever the responsible leader comes from, whether from Germany or from neighbouring countries, they recognize the joint work that we do together and with your local government leaders. What's that supposed to mean? It clearly targets the survival of nationalities, but there is also another side, the survival of Hungarians living beyond the border. This dual work has intensified over the past few years. On the one hand, it has strengthened from kindergarten to higher education through a number of support schemes. This aid scheme has been strengthened in the local government, whether local, regional or national. Whoever we are talking to, political leaders in Europe, they acknowledge that this local government is almost unique, they do not meet with it anywhere, and they do not meet with such a support system that we have fought and developed together. And there is a third area, Mrs Speaker, which you have just mentioned, and that is also important. To preserve our nationalities, the preservation of our language, the preservation of culture and the education system are a fundamental issue, but to stay locally, we also need the ambition to strengthen our nationalities on both sides, on the other side of the border, on the other side of the border, on Hungary's nationality and on the other side of Hungary's nationality. With the countries with which we have good relations and in which we also recognise that nationalities are not barriers, they are not hindering the strengthening of a nation, but rather enriching it, we have been able to agree with them. Such is Serbia, such as Croatia, so slowly Slovakia, and so is Slovenia. Thank God, the Slovenian economic programme, which we have worked out together and the two prime ministers have approved it a few weeks ago, strengthens this objective. However, it must also be said that it is absolutely natural that we would like to do the same with Romanians in Hungary, but it is very difficult if they want to achieve a different goal from the opposite direction, if there is an attack on an economic programme there, or if they want to repress it. Obviously, I can't do this. This is equally true, because we have a Ukrainian woman here, and it is very important that the Hungarians living in Transcarpathia have at least the same opportunities as the Ukrainian nationality living in Hungary. We are not looking at fewer people, we are not looking at where Hungarians lived a long time ago, in another place or here, in our current country other nationalities, but at the fact that we live together. I am very sure that sooner or later others and other countries will recognize the strength of what I once again stress, whether we have done with Serbia, Croatia, Slovenia or even Slovakia. I would also like to thank you very much for your speech, but I would also like to thank you very much to the Member and to the ladies and gentlemen who spoke for all the work that they have done to preserve their community, but also to serve the interests of the Hungarians as a whole by turning to Hungarians across the border with love and great help. Thank you so much for listening.
u2019-12-02-40	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time to set the agenda for our meeting starting today. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time shall be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. I would like to inform you that the Group of Dialogue is entitled H/7431 on the preparation of the introduction of the euro in Hungary. H/7431/3. The request for inclusion in the series of items was withdrawn and therefore the request for inclusion in the series of items and the decision to do so will not take place at our meeting today. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] It's a visible majority. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Next up is 5/2018 on the establishment of committees, election of officials and members of Parliament. A decision to amend a decision. S/8345 submitted by the President. We have all been able to find out about this on the House's website. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the content of the personal proposal put forward by the President. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2019-12-02-41	Dear Parliament, The proposal is as follows: 1. 5/2018 on the establishment of committees, election of officials and members of the Parliament Parliamentary resolution, hereinafter referred to as OGY, paragraph 1 is amended as follows: Parliament elects Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP, instead of Dr. László Szakács, MSZP, member of the Committee. 2. Point 2 of the Parliamentary Decision is amended as follows: the National Assembly elects Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP, member of the Committee, instead of Dr. László Szakács, MSZP; József Tóbias, MSZP, member of the Committee. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption.
u2019-12-02-42	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept S/8345. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the personal proposal by 164 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Now it's 2:48 p.m., moving to interpellation, immediate questions and questions. Dear Parliament, Congressman László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources, including the Red Code in hospitals: as many people die of hospital infection as there are on the roads? It's an address. I would like to inform Congressman that Secretary Bence Rétvári will respond. Mr László György Lukács, the notary of the Parliament, is the subject. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-43	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, For a long time, the government has been hiding the publication of Hungarian hospital infections in an understandable manner and the publication of their number. For years, the profession, political forces, and even private people have been struggling to finally have a public database of hospital infections and to make the statistics of related deaths public. [[14.50]] There has been a reason for the government to keep secrets over the past period, as according to the latest data, and this is a unfortunately upward trend, there have been over 15,000 hospital infections in domestic hospitals, and almost as many people have died of infection as in road traffic accidents. While 567 people died in traffic accidents on the roads last year, Mr. Secretary of State, and that is the point, 541 people in our hospitals lost their lives because of hospital infection. So every year, a small village of people die from the government's failure to find the cure for hospital infections, and they don't even care about it. What kind of reaction can be given to this at government level? While this year the police put in place red codes and increased control on the roads because of the number of road fatalities higher than the previous year, domestic hospitals prefer to hide their infection data and the government lay low, no measures were imposed. Normally, in view of such mortality data, a red code should be issued in domestic hospitals and effective action should be taken, compared to this in our country, it appears that measures are being taken lightly. All of this, Mr Secretary of State, occurs in the country of Ignác Semmelweis, who was the first and most important pioneer in the fight against health infections. This is the case in Hungary with insufficient money for hospital hygiene, insufficient money for hospital supplies and disinfection. In fact, the problem is even more serious, because the problem is not only that the number of hospital infections is so high, but also that they are not properly documented, and in many cases hospitals do not report them properly, and which is another problem, domestic infections are developing. It is an international trend that viruses, the types of infections that cause the conditions in Hungary, continue to develop, and this extremely high mortality rate. The number and severity of both occurrence are therefore increasing, not only in Hungary but also worldwide. Now it seems that our country is losing in this fight as well. Mr Secretary of State, in view of all this, I am asking you and waiting for your honest answer: how will the government continue to hide from hospital infections? Why doesn't the government act with the strength and means to fight infection? And how does the government judge the number of deaths from hospital infections, how long will they leave patients and their relatives vulnerable to hospital infections? I'm waiting for your answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-12-02-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-12-02-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The government doesn't hide these statements, Congressman. The government puts it on the Internet, on their own website. You can tell me three times why the government is keeping secrets, how long the government is keeping secrets, but you know very well that you can go to the AEK website, and everyone there, in previous years, can look at the latest data. [[Zsolt Gréczy: We must sue! Dr. László György Lukács: Aha!]] And this has been the case for years, honourable Member. From these you can see exactly all kinds of trends, and therefore positive trends can be seen in exactly two directions. On the one hand, in Hungary there are far more hospitals for hospital infections than in many countries west of us. There are many hospitals who don't participate in this, they don't send the data, they don't know exactly what's going on. A lot more in Hungary. Therefore, our image of Hungarian health care is much more comprehensive, much more representative in terms of hospital infections. On the other hand, the figures are not such either, honourable Member, as you have said, that they are deteriorating and are deteriorating year after year. That is not true at all, honourable Member. We have managed to improve these data over the past year, and it is not by accident, because the government has taken a number of measures. Honourable Congressman, You say the doctors won't file the report, the medical reports you filed will be kept secret by the government. This is not true, honourable Member, but the exact opposite is true. If you look at and compare the value of the infections associated with hospital treatments handed down by Hungarian hospitals and look at the data collected because this is a large international survey in developed countries, you can see that in Hungary, this is 4 percent of the hospital infection value, while the average of developed countries is 5.5 percent. So you could have thanked all those who work in health care and are responsible in health care for a better situation in hospitals in Hungary than in the developed EU and OECD countries combined. If you wanted to gather real knowledge, you would have gone on to other social and other inpatient institutions, where in Hungary the prevalence of infections is 1 percent, while in these institutions the average value in European data is 3.6 percent. So, honourable Member, none of the statements you make are real. A statement is real. Let me give you a number pair, which is real. You have sent more Hungarian doctors abroad than the number of better-looking Members sitting here in Parliament. So you're more effective in this respect. [[Noise from Jobbik's benches. Intercoms, so Dr. Brenner Koloman: It's harbingerism!]] As his own party president, because he exported more doctors abroad than Jobbik could bring politicians into Parliament. On the other hand, honourable Member, if you look at this statement, you can see that we can prevent countries such as France, Italy, Portugal, Slovakia or Poland. The situation in Hungary is better than they are. I think we should be proud of that. If you look at the occurrence of your own numbers in the European Union and the European Economic Area, you can see that there are 90,000 deaths in the European Union in the case of six priority infections associated with priority healthcare. And if you are only looking at multi-resistant pathogens, you can see that 33,000 out of 670 thousand infections occur in the EU and EEA countries, honourable Member. What we've done lately? What we have done, among other things, is that we have provided additional resources for employees who are specifically involved in the prevention of hospital infections, institutional, county and national, local bodies who are involved in this. Five different methodological letters were issued by the chief of staff precisely to provide more accurate and modern care in case of mechanical ventilation, surgical wound infection, bladder catheter, vascular catheter. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We started a separate EFOP project to teach good practice, we give HUF 2.2 billion to hospitals, about HUF 60 million each for this purpose, and we provided water filtration equipment for hospitals from HUF 2 and a half billion that can filter out some of the bacteria and now at every point of entry. [[Noise from Jobbik's benches. Dániel Z. Carpathian: Make the answer five minutes! Dr. Brenner Koloman: Talking nonsense!]] There are hand sanitizer tools in hospitals. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-12-02-46	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. With all due respect, I'm asking you to keep up the time frame. I will ask Congressman László György Lukács to accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-47	Mr President, I don't accept the answer. Mr. Secretary, whatever you say, Hungarian patients are terrified of hospital infection. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The patients of the EU too! All patients!]] Go away, talk to the Hungarian people, they are terrified to go to the Hungarian hospital because of the infections, and because that is your policy. You, when you can, keep it a secret, then you have to sue the data. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: We're not hiding anything!]] After that, when you have the data, you distort these data, and when you do, [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: We'll put it on the Internet!]] The first two have already been completed, and they have discovered that the position is indefensible, and that is when Miklós Kásler gives an explanation for hospital infections. He says that visitors are responsible for hospital infections because they're the ones who drag him into hospitals. Secretary of State, what will your minister do? Who will ban people visiting patients to prevent hospital infections? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Have you ever run a hospital? He's already run a hospital, and you're not!]] What kind of world are you creating, Mr. Secretary? Do you think that it is okay, by the way, that the answer is that they hide with European death and that it is possible to arrange for the Hungarian people to die for this too? The Hungarian people demand that health care be taken seriously by Viktor Orbán. It's not a soccer ball that can be taken to the chest and then kicked far away. This must be resolved, not the way Viktor Orbán acted in his video! [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches. Intercoms from Jobbik's benches: That's right!]]
u2019-12-02-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. So I'm asking you to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 117 votes in favour, 42 votes in favour and one vote in favour. Dear Parliament, Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. Trafficking in human beings and corruption? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Secretary of State will answer. Madam President, you have the floor. Here you go. [[15.00]]
u2019-12-02-49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, On 26 November 2019, the Attorney General Péter Polt confirmed devastating information. According to the Attorney General, the Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County Hospital is investigating four crimes, which are the following. The illicit use of a human body, more commonly known as organ trafficking. Careless endangerment in the occupation of a disabled person. This is basically a medical malpractice in which a person was crippled by the fact that the doctor did not maintain the professional standard he could expect because he was frivolous or because he did not show the attention he could expect. In particular, they are investigating the crime of misappropriation causing significant financial disadvantages and the crime of fiscal fraud which is particularly detrimental to property. The particularly high financial disadvantage in criminal law amounts to between HUF 50 million and HUF 500 million. I would also like to mention, as I wrote in my question to the Attorney General, that the last two crimes are believed to have been due to the unlawful use of CT machines in the hospital for several years, and then illegally received state aid. All four investigations have started since 2018. You've been quiet about this for a year. It basically destroys any confidence in health care by the fact that so many extremely serious crimes can take place in a hospital. Each of these crimes has endangered patient safety, and some have actually crippled one person because of the negligence of the hospital or at least one of its employees. However, the crime of the illicit use of the human body stands out among all the above crimes. According to the Criminal Code, this crime is committed by those who illegally acquire or trade human genes, cells, gametes, embryos, organs, tissues, dead bodies or parts thereof, or dead fetus for property gain. All these crimes are repulsive, Mr. Secretary of State. I hope that these questions will be answered by Minister. Then I'd like to ask the Secretary of State. What kind of abuse is going on at Borsod County Hospital? Are you investigating trafficking in human beings, organ trafficking, or, more specifically, the illicit use of human bodies? Confirm this to me, Mr. Secretary. What investigations did the Ministry itself conduct, or did it continue to investigate, since these cases came to light in 2018? What do you intend to do to restore confidence in Borsod County Hospital? About 2 million patients turn up annually in this hospital. Secretary of State, when will we get answers to these questions?
u2019-12-02-50	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-12-02-51	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, On 26 November 2019 you received an accurate reply from the Attorney General Péter Polt, in which the Attorney General said that the investigations are under way and informed you that these investigations are currently under investigation. I can tell you that the hospital is fully cooperating with the investigating authorities, the investigative bodies. Since it is an ongoing investigation, as did Péter Polt, sent it to you for information, there is nothing more to say about this investigation at the moment. What are we going to do to ensure that patients returning to the hospital have the best health care possible? I can tell you that in the past 19 billion HUF of various regional operational programmes have been developed in the hospital, institution building, renovation works, modernisations, heliport design, machinery, instruments and equipment. The central budget was able to provide HUF 740 million for the development of human resources to the employees there, and they received HUF 1.5 billion for energy investments. An additional HUF 1.7 billion awarded proposal is currently under way, which increases patient safety, improves human resources, improves the human resources situation, and can be used for further energy improvements. From its own source, the maintenance ÁEK achieves 3 billion forints of development here, the construction of nursing homes, the development of children's and adults' psychiatrists in the field of day-old surgery, diagnostics and child emergency. The hospital won an additional tender worth HUF 500 million, which can facilitate the development of family-friendly obstetrics. As an incentive, the institution received HUF 3 billion from its own resources and could develop the children's health centre from HUF 100 million, the hospital parking lot from HUF 200 million, the logistics base from HUF 400 million, a new block, a gastroenterological array from HUF 670 million, and the purchase of a 128 slice CT equipment from a HUF 200 million frame is expected soon. In addition, two new linear accelerant, oncological IT networks, radiation planning systems and patient safety and patient information systems help improve oncological care in the hospital from this year's individual government decision worth HUF 1.8 billion. These are the measures that we have been trying to improve the situation of patients and have been trying to improve it over the past period. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-02-52	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély to accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-53	Secretary of State, you didn't answer anything. [[Defiance on the pro-government side.]] He listed the sources of the hospital's tender, but he didn't say anything about the case. Secretary of State, in at least one case, a woman's fallopian tube was removed without knowing it for racist reasons. They didn't have a license and used stolen sperm at the hospital. A HUF 500 million tender source is missing. Secretary of State, what are we talking about? ! All of this is under Article XXI of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1st century in Hungary, in a county hospital, where 2 million patients are treated in one year. Well, you didn't answer anything, but you started to tell me what kind of funding the hospital won. Secretary of State, I'm asking you, you know about the open letter that the employees wrote to you, because they can't stand the situation that happened at the county hospital anymore. You are aware that Minister has received this letter, and that you are deeply silent about this letter, the whole case, and you are wrong all along. I can't accept the answer, Mr. President.
u2019-12-02-54	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear House, As we have heard, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. So I'm asking you to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 113 votes in favour, 40 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Representative László Varju, representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office: does MTVA operate public channels? It's an address. I would like to inform you that State Secretary Balázs Orbán will respond. Mr. Congressman, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-55	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. It is certainly well known to you that MTVA operates TV channels from 90 billion forints of taxpayers, and now no one, perhaps you, or the government has the guts to slander them with public service. Public media services lie, produce false news, distribute propaganda, manipulate, uncritically pass on government propaganda, and uncalculate taxpayers' money to punish them for violating their privacy rights. In his spare time, when he is not busy with the above, he is being raped by an official, and he is using opposition MPs to beat him up. And if the court finds that this is illegal, then the majority of governments will quickly amend the parliamentary law governing the status of Members. Without any particular exaggeration, we can conclude that MTVA is now the propaganda machine of Fidesz and has become its assigned department. Despite the fact that these channels should talk about the rules on media and public service activities that you have adopted, you should ensure that you provide objective, responsible news services and information and conflict of views on public affairs. I mean, according to the law, that would be their job, according to government expectations that override the laws passed to MTVA. Since the election on 13 October, more than one third of the Hungarian population has lived in a settlement under the control of a mayor supported by opposition or opposition. Obviously, the above would require MTVA channels to report on the lives of such settlements, including such mayors, to confront their views with the opinions of the government, the state authorities and the pro-government mayors. [[15.10]] I therefore ask Mr State Secretary: in the last month and a half, how many pro-government and opposition-led settlements have the state media service provider given positive or negative news about the management of the settlement? How many pro-government and opposition mayors have been spoken during this time? What will the government do to ensure that the content provided by MTVA complies with the provisions of the Media Services and Public Communications Act? I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary. Thank you. [[A round of applause for DK and Dialogue.]]
u2019-12-02-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. What I said, we will hear the answer from Secretary of State Balázs Orbán. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-12-02-57	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The Fundamental Law also provides that Hungary recognises and protects the freedom and diversity of the press, and we implement the obligation to do so through the requirement of balanced information. In this context, and specifically in relation to public education, this requirement is implemented by Hungary through a complex system. In this complex system there is a public service foundation, Duna Media Provider Zrt. its owner, the Board of Governors, is responsible for verifying that the objectives of the public media service are met. 6 members will be elected to this board by each vote, half of them will be elected by pro-government and half by opposition groups. In addition to the curatorium, there is also a public service body, a organisation of 15 members, which also has the same task and is represented by social organisations as defined by the law, and they also have the task of examining whether the public service media service providers comply with the requirements of the Public Service Code and are constantly monitoring whether the public service media's objective is being achieved. By the way, Duna Media Services Ltd. The Executive Director shall send an annual report, which shall be discussed by the public service body. Moreover, Duna Media Services Ltd., in a broad sense, controls the legality of the activities of public television under the general rules of the Media Council under general authority. Any citizen may turn directly to the authority if he suspects a breach of law. Thus, the Authority will also act, for example, in the event of a possible breach of the requirement for balanced information. Public service media operate independently of state actors. The Authority acted in 14 cases in 2018 in respect of the cases raised by you, some of which can also be considered as opposition, pro-government and public media channels in the political sense. Congressman! I think the times that you and your comrades have socialized have passed, so that you can tell us what to do on television. If you notice an infringement, you should contact the authority, just as any Hungarian citizen can do. The Media Council is investigating the case and, by the way, a court dispute may be initiated. No one wants more of his political censorship dictatorial practice. Besides, Congressman, I know that I would risk you not accepting my answer, but I must say to you that I can't get rid of the idea that you're only attacking public television on a regular basis because, after your disruptive action against your public life, you've been prosecuted for the crime of assault, and your immunity has been suspended by the Parliament. I ask you not to use Parliament's forums as part of your political vendetta campaign, and I would also like to ask that in the future public media workers and ordinary people should not be destroyed. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Gergely Harvester: Shame on you! Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-02-58	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman László Varju to accept the Secretary of State's reply. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-59	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, You're not taking a big risk judging acceptance. Not even because today is immediately contradicting you, because the bodies in which only fidesz candidates are elected prove and function as I just said. You have not modified or done anything to amend the media law, your complex system ensures that only pro-government voters are served for HUF 90 billion. Therefore, I suggest to the other half of the country, Mr Secretary of State, that since you spend 90 billion forints out of 2361 billion forints, almost 4 percent, the rest of you can offer your personal income tax so that you can finally get a decent service, because you will never get it from you in your life. That's why your answer is unacceptable. [[A round of applause for DK and Dialogue.]]
u2019-12-02-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. As we have heard, Congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. So I'm asking you to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 114 votes in favour, 40 against and one abstention. Dear Parliament, Congressman Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. Mátra Power Plant: not good, but not tragic? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Secretary Tibor Pogácsás will answer you. Congressman Antal Csárdi has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-61	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The LMP has long demanded the closure of the Mátra Power Plant, which is not only one of the largest carbon emitters in the country, but has recently been a major pollutant. After the summer water pollution, sulphur and phosphorus gas formed at the plant site in early November, the county disaster management department's mobile laboratory arrived at the site on the basis of a public announcement. The instrumental measurements revealed the formation of hydrogen, nitrogen monoxide and phosphorus hydrogen in the process reservoir, probably due to the degradation of organic matter collected there. Besides the power plant, Viresol Kft. started operating in February this year in the interests of Lőrinc Mészáros. It's a grain processing plant that delivers sewage to the same reservoir. It is amazing to see that although the workers of the power plant first noticed the presence of toxic gases on 6 November, the Heves County Disaster Protection only issued a narrow statement on 12 November, the National Directorate-General for Disaster Protection and the Mátra Power Plant held a press conference on 22 November, one that was most reminiscent of the Chernobyl series. The situation is not good, but it is not tragic. They usually answered the question of journalists that the investigation was ongoing, that everyone was safe, and they didn't want to go into the details anyway, because no one would understand. They specifically said to keep going, because there's nothing to see here. There may well be suspicion that they are trying to cover up this outrageous incident. Dear Minister, Dear Secretary of State, Do they not think that this is the case with regard to Article 21 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union? Is this information level no longer sufficient? The public and the workers of the plant are right to expect answers. Or do you think they don't get an answer? In what concentrations were toxic gases measured, were the population or workers at the plant at risk? Who is responsible for pollution, and what fine can you expect? What are you doing to prevent pollution? If there were serious malfunctions at the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, would they provide similar rapid and comprehensive information? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-02-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-12-02-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, He's looking for sensations or catastrophes where he's not. And you know that, because your interpellation was submitted two days after a meeting with the Director-General of the BM OKF was held on 25 November by Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Head of Group of the LMP and Congresswoman Márta Demeter, and they were informed about the situation there. [[Péter Ungár: It was not satisfactory.]] The Members of Parliament have therefore received in detail all the information about the events, all the answers have been given, so there is no sensation that you would like to make here. Obviously, this could have been discussed within the LMP. [[15.20]] Honourable Congressman, The Heves County Disaster Protection Directorate issued a communication on 12 November and 15 November to inform the public. The measurements did not pose a threat to the inhabitants of the surrounding settlement, nor did they measure a health hazard limit anywhere. The disaster management body also informed the representatives of the municipalities and the public about this. The measurements could also be monitored on the spot by representatives of the municipalities of Detk and Visonta, as well as by interested local residents, and could be directly provided with accurate information on the results. The Heves County Disaster Protection Directorate also held a detailed, comprehensive press conference on 22 November 2019. I can also inform the Member of the fact that, in the event of any exceptional event, the government and government bodies shall take the necessary measures in the event of any pollution, first and foremost taking the necessary measurements, if necessary, to inform the workers involved or the residents nearby, if necessary, to begin evacuation. Here, in this case, these were not necessary. Emergency mobile labs are continuously measuring as long as this is deemed necessary by disaster control. Please, Congressman, accept the answer. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-02-64	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I respectfully ask Congressman Antal Csárdi to accept the State Secretary's answer. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-12-02-65	Dear House, We got nothing but what we expected: nothing to see here, go on. But astoundingly, another level has been achieved by the Orbán government. Technically, in this interpellation, we have not yet experienced that the representatives of the government represent the economic interests of Lőrinc Mészáros over the health interests of voters and those living there. It's shocking, it's outrageous! I don't accept the answer. Thank you.
u2019-12-02-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 109 votes in favour, 37 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. Visonta the Hungarian Chernobyl? What are they hiding about the malfunction of the Mátra power plant? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you that Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás will respond. You have the floor, Congressman. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I'd like to ask you about the visonta pollution. Please accept that this issue is of great concern to the whole country and to the local population, so it is important that we have an answer to our questions. For more than two weeks now, it has been revealed that it is probably from Viresol Kft. in Visontai that the prickly, sulfuric, phosphorous gas leaked. We know that the government has told us that disaster control is on the ground, that it's doing measurements, not measuring pollutants. However, this does not reveal exactly what was behind it, and what ensures that this will never happen again. There will be some very worrying information. Mr. Secretary, you just said there's no disaster. I think that it is quite a disaster that the wildlife in the surrounding area is constantly consumed by pollution; the fish from the Bene Creek are completely destroyed, and the stream's colour is gray and foaming regularly. I think this is a disaster. Last week, behind the power plant, there was a plastic wire nearly 10 centimeters in diameter that carries some kind of liquid into a well on the side of the road. From the well, the water flows into a small vessel flowing toward Detk, where the liquid paints the water into blue gray. Greenpeace took samples of nearby waters on the afternoon of November 20, not like disaster control, taking samples where this water is already diluted, but directly where it flows into them. The results were tested in an accredited laboratory, and the drain water was practically found to be sewage. The organic matter content of the water sample is several times higher than the permitted limit and has also shown a higher concentration of sulphate and molybdenum. Dear Secretary of State, In the case of László Bige's chemical plant in Szolnok, they acted with an unprecedented rigour; when the slightest suspicion arose, the county disaster management authority suspended the operation of the Szolnok sulphuric acid plant at Bige Holding. Please answer the question of what the government is doing to eliminate continuous pollution and how it intends to ensure that there is no more pollution. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2019-12-02-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-12-02-69	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As is customary in the world today, if there is a disaster somewhere, then people will go there as disaster tourists, rush in there, and try to take advantage of some kind of like hunt, I see opposition representatives doing the same process now in interpellation and immediate questions. Honourable Congressman, I strongly reject the fact that the government is hiding anything about this event or any other event, especially when it comes to environmental impacts. The Member also received a reply from the Secretary of State of the Agricultural Ministry on 25 November. I think that the fact that you're still looking for more secrets is not a matter of fact or reality. I can inform the Member that, in order to protect the population, the government, disaster management and any organisation that is competent to carry out the necessary measurements will carry out the necessary preventive measures, and, of course, the necessary tests will also be carried out, and as you have mentioned, in other previous cases, an appropriate investigation has been carried out, in which the necessary conclusions could then be drawn, here too, if necessary, will be carried out. The Heves County Disaster Protection Directorate issued a communication on 12 November and 15 November to inform the public: no health hazard limit has been identified and no health hazard has been detected. We also informed the public about this and also informed the representatives of the competent authorities. I can only repeat that, when the measurements were carried out, municipal representatives of the municipalities Detk and Visonta were present, interested people in the settlement could also be present, and the measurements could be monitored and known. On 22 November, a detailed, comprehensive press conference was held by the Heves County Disaster Protection Directorate, and the laboratories are continuously monitoring, monitoring and the investigation is ongoing and, if necessary, the measures will be implemented. Please accept my answer. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-02-70	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio to accept the State Secretary's answer. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-71	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your answer. My question was, by the way, how do you intend to ensure that this does not happen again? I wasn't talking about secrets. I would be able to accept the answer if, let's say, he had said that they were as strict about Lőrinc Mészáros's plant as they were about Lajos Bige's plant; in connection with Lőrinc Mészáros's plant, which had received billions of state aid, which would have been overrun by hundreds of people, I would obviously have left the 72-hour detention to the authorities. I'm sure that doesn't reassure the public, and I'm sure the people in the area wouldn't accept your answer, so I don't know either. Thank you.
u2019-12-02-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. So I'm asking you to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 108 votes in favour, 38 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: for us, the family will be first again next year! It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Secretary Katalin Novák will answer you. The congresswoman has the floor. Here you go. [[15.30]]
u2019-12-02-73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary's budget for 2020 will be the budget for the year of families. Next year, the amount available to support families will exceed HUF 2200 billion. This represents a two-and-a-half-fold increase compared to 2010 when we took over governance. For Fidesz-KDNP, family and child first. But the opposition does not think that way; let us remember that the opposition has always been rejected from families in both the government and the opposition by the MSZP, DK, liberal parties, and the bill on support has not been voted out. For them, multinational companies have always been more important, their economic interests, and they have always decided at the expense of Hungarian people and Hungarian families. These were, by the way, the years 2002-2010, when he was in a desperate situation for austerity and for many, who said with a noble simplicity that it was possible to leave. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, In Fidesz-KDNP, however, we are working to strengthen families. We strive to give birth to the children we desire and to be born as soon as possible. We help families get their own home. So we introduced the family home-building discount, returned the third year child to the mothers, introduced the free children's meals, the free textbook supply, the ged extra, and more. But we know that we can't stop here, which is why on the part of the government, on the part of the Prime Minister, the 7-point family protection action plan was launched, which will help the Hungarian families with children again. 4 of the 7 points started on July 1st. In particular, the baby shower support, the extended version of the CSOK loan, the expansion of the support for mortgage loans and the promotion of car shopping for large family members. The cradle development program is ongoing. Today, not only Hungary, but Europe as a whole, is affected by population decline. However, our fundamental goal is to address demographic challenges, not by immigration, but by supporting the birth of Hungarian children. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State what further measures will help to bear children from January 2020. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-02-74	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. As I said, we will hear the answer from Secretary of State Katalin Novak. Here you go, Madam Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-12-02-75	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear fellow Members, I always consider it a good opportunity to talk about the importance of supporting Hungarian families here in the Parliament. And not only because, indeed, as the Member mentioned, we have been facing a demographic challenge for decades now calling for an answer, and this response is not just to support migration, but also because we want it to be as easy to have children in Hungary as possible. We simply want every young person in Hungary to have exactly as many children as they want and to have these children when they want to. If you are young, whether you are already in college or after university, then if you are later, you will have all the opportunities to have as many children as you want, and when you want these children. That's our goal. We want young people to be able to start a family before. For example, the baby shower support introduced in July serves this purpose, but this is what our home creation programme, the CSOK, serves with the associated loan, which is a discount rate, or even that which is now our legislative amendment proposal before the Parliament. If someone has taken up a child during university years or in a year immediately after graduation, and then has used your graduate child since 2014 and then becomes a child again without going back to the labour market or being placed in the process, the mother will be able to use this graduate or student lawn again. Again, this is a small, but important step for those in such a life situation. But let's get back to what happened on July 1st. The family protection action plan has started, we are constantly expanding the cradle seats, so that we can really say that in Hungary, for all children of nursery age, where parents need this, we can provide a nursery space, and, moreover, close to the place of residence or close to the place of work. Baby shower support is popular beyond our expectations, as more than 52,000 couples have taken advantage of it. This means that there are over 100,000 young people who have used this baby shower support. This means that they can receive up to HUF 10 million, which they may not have to repay at all if they have children in the coming period. There's big family car shopping support. The number of applicants for aid has already exceeded 21 000. This is also significantly higher than we anticipated in advance, but of course we are happy about this, and I would reassure everyone that the budget is not running out, so the money is available. As much as we have a legitimate claim, that's all we're gonna be able to satisfy. But the family protection plan doesn't end with these steps. From 1 January, Grandparent's gyed starts, which means that grandmothers, grandpas, who are still active, are facing retirement, but their children and children are working, all parents are working, and there is a small child in the family, so grandma or grandpa can leave from 1 January, even in parallel with several grandchildren, using multiple grandparents' children. What is also new from 1 January is the start of the personal income tax exemption for mothers with at least four children. And here, let me draw your attention to something, dear fellow Members. Just the other day, I received a request to find out what if a child was born dead, or if a baby or a child died in previous years and decades, then a family of four children was considered to be a family where there was no longer a living child. Of course, yes. So the still - born child, or the fetus that left at a certain fetal age, or who later died a baby or a child, in the age of a larger child, has the same right to these subsidies. This is once again a step in the direction of young Hungarians who are about to have children and Hungarian families, helping them to start a family and raise children. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-02-76	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I ask Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi to accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-77	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for your answer. The answer shows that Hungary's Government remains a family-friendly government. The figures, in which the Secretary of State said how popular these family benefits and benefits are, are also encouraging. They show that many families over 100,000 young people use family support tools in this area. Dear Secretary of State, Your answer is accepted. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-02-78	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, As we have heard, the congresswoman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Zoltán Balczó, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:. The government considers it a solution that the corruption premium for the EU projects complained of will be charged to the Hungarian taxpayers? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, By responding to the interpellation, the Prime Minister appointed László Palkovics, Minister for Innovation and Technology, who is competent and competent according to the subject, to whom the answer will be given by Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-12-02-79	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, At the meeting of the Parliament on 18 November, several people asked the Prime Minister that there were serious objections to the implementation of several applications in the European Union, so serious that the government did not even ask for their payment. A lot of data, a lot of facts were said, but the Prime Minister's answers must have made it seem like everything was fine. This was justified by the fact that the total amount of subsidies that Hungary could call for has not decreased, since the so-called reserve applications replaced the rejected projects. This is what he said in concrete terms: "Science is this mathematics, but perhaps we should start from the fact that if Hungary is entitled to a sum and all of it, then no penny will be lost. This may be an acceptable starting point. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[15.40]] Yeah, it's a good place to start, but there are a few more questions that we should be able to answer. The EU authorities examined operational programmes in 2018, 30 of which were found to be serious irregularities, 8 of which are more than 25 percent Hungarian projects. Don't you think that's very bad for the country, with all the consequences? Why didn't the government agree to prove one by one that the projects in question had been properly implemented? Probably not because, in the case of the seven operational programmes complained of, systemic irregularities affecting public procurement have been identified, i.e., to put it mildly, a suspicion of corruption. This provides a further basis for the statement made by the European Parliament on several occasions and on several different political sides that Hungary is the most corrupt country in the Union. And this is not said because Hungary stops migrants at the border, which I have always stood up for in the European Parliament, but is based on OLAF's report. The affected, contested projects are paid from the budget, with Hungarian taxpayers' money. This corresponds to a return of goods intended for export by the customer and then they say that the spoiled goods should be sold to the domestic customers. All this therefore underpins the fundamental question: if we ourselves, Hungarian people and businesses, are paid, not by the European Union, but by the European Union, but by ourselves, by Hungarian people and businesses, then everything has been resolved, is everything all right? I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's substantive reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-12-02-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer is addressed to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-12-02-81	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, There is a significant difference between the opposition and the government's viewpoint. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks, that's for sure. That's right!]] While you look to Brussels and trust the resources coming from it, we see domestic developments, and the investments serve both Hungary and the Hungarian people. The performance of the Hungarian economy makes these possible, and the work of the Hungarian people is behind it. There is an unprecedented opportunity to make the investments that are lagging behind and need to be made on its own. How we account for Brussels in these matters is a purely technical issue, as I can assure you that we will bring every euro cent back from Brussels. If we decide on an investment, it doesn't matter whether we make it from EU or domestic sources, and there is plenty of development. Honourable Congressman, At the drawdown of EU development resources, we are performing outstandingly, as we have already reached 43 percent. With this, Hungary is ranked 10th among the EU member states and is the first in the ranking of the V4 countries. If we look at the drawdown in proportion to the available resources, we can say that after Portugal we are the second in Europe. If there was a problem, we wouldn't be like that. If you wish to find a loss of resources, honourable Member, please ask Ferenc Gyurcsány, the ally of Jobbik. [[Intercoms, raging in the ranks of Jobbik and DK.]] The real loss of resources occurred during the period of socialist disaster governance, when Klára Dobrev played a leading role in the institutional system of domestic development policy. We are actually losing HUF 19 billion because of the acquisition of the AI system, but the result of the failed development policy of the Socialists, for example, is the corruption scandal of Metro 4 and it is a matter of up to 60 billion loss of resources, and unfortunately, the real consequences of this are indeed the Hungarian taxpayers. Honourable Congressman, You've seen what's going on in Brussels, which is why I'm surprised by your question. It may have been obvious to you in your work that Brussels bureaucrats are not looking out for the interests of the Hungarian people, but are baking their own political steak. They do not shy away from supporting immigration, which is a threat to Europe's future. Brussels has been pursuing a failed immigration policy, letting the British out and immigrants enter. [[Noise, interruptions from opposition parties.]] Moreover, their economic policies have gone wrong, which is what we can see in the crisis of the euro area. You know perfectly well, you have seen with your own eyes the role of the representatives of the European Parliament of the Hungarian opposition in this process, what kind of minework they are doing against their own country. It is unparalleled that the opposition does not stand up for Hungary in the European Parliament, and domestic political debates are regularly considered to be above national interest. They destroy Hungary's reputation with unfounded criticisms and false news distributions, and this also undermines the Hungarian negotiating positions. It is regrettable that you and your party, contrary to their previous communication to defend national interests, now share the same position as Brussels bureaucrats attacking our country and Ferenc Gyurcsány. [[Noise on the opposition side. Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Honourable Congressman, The European Commission shall regularly and in all Member States monitor the use of resources linked to the different operational programmes. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In the course of audits, the Commission often makes excuses that are perceived as the most political attack and whose origins in Hungary are not difficult to discover. Please accept my reply. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-02-82	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I respectfully ask Mr Zoltán Balczó to accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-83	Mr. President, I won't accept it, and I'll explain it. I was shocked by the fact that Mr Secretary of State, from whom I heard professional answers in many debates, has now read such a cynical political pamphlet. There's only one reason he couldn't give me a professional answer. You're saying it doesn't matter if we're using domestic money to pay for something or something from the EU. It doesn't matter if it's not corruption. Why do we have to pay the extra cost of corruption? ! No extra corruption? ! Well, what was the Elios case, where it wasn't just corruption, but as OLAF proved, it showed signs of organised crime, and the Prime Minister himself was involved in this case? ! That was our biggest loss of prestige! The interests of the Hungarian people are indeed represented by the European Union, when it does not allow this corruption to take over. And I would like to ask myself that whoever voted contrary to Balliberal MEPs in the European Parliament was when I stood alone in favour of the Hungarian government, that you would crush me and hold me accountable to them! [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Dr. Brenner Koloman: You are vile and cynical!]]
u2019-12-02-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 105 votes in favour, 34 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Congressman János Harghitai, representative of KDNP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance: what changes are expected in the tax system in 2020? It's an address. Mr János Harghitai has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-12-02-85	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, At this time, towards the end of the year, in the light of an approved budget and in the light of known tax laws, it is appropriate to talk about economic policy, even in order to inform the various revenue holders of public finances through the publicity of what changes the following year will mean for them. It is a pleasure to know through the press the reports of the Statistical Office that there is finally an increase in the country that we can see as balanced, as opposed to the growth that we got used to here and there during the previous government, which was built on external borrowings, and through them we were able to achieve temporary successes at the time, but these successes have always been a serious cost, because this was followed by debt. [[15.50]] We are not facing such an increase now, and this increase, which was 5 per cent in the last quarter, is a very commendable increase among the countries of the European Union, is finally based on the country's internal economic reserves. If I look back by 2010 and recall some of the very important economic policy steps that underpin today's achievements, then I could obviously talk about the introduction of a single-key personal income tax, which then caused very big storms, the reduction of this personal income tax to 15 per cent, but it was also a very radical economic policy step at the level of corporate taxes to reduce corporate tax to 9 per cent. For some time now, we can count on dynamic wage increases with low inflation, these are obviously welcome moves, and with these we can finance the social policy steps that are the most important for us is the family policy package. That is why I ask the Secretary of State that, if we know the budget that has been adopted and see the tax policy directions, what are the measures that the Secretary of State would highlight that will be expected next year and which can guarantee that this economic policy success will continue, and through this we can finance our social policy visions. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-02-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds to the question of interpellation by the Member. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-12-02-87	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The Hungarian economy is performing better than ever, thanks to Hungarian people and Hungarian businesses. Economic growth, employment and wage developments are both outstanding. By 2020, the government continued to propose support for families and domestic businesses, increasing competitiveness and reducing administration. The bill to be adopted is an integral part of the government policy which aims at reducing and simplifying public burdens. In line with the Economic Protection Action Plan, a new single contribution law will enter into force as of 1 July 2020, i.e. from the first half of next year, under which four individual contributions will be integrated into a single social security contribution, so that the number of taxes will fall significantly next year, together with the resulting bureaucracy. Thanks to the Family Protection Action Plan, a significant change is also taking place in Sja on 1 January 2020, as women with four children are exempt from paying her, and next year, there will be a greater amount than ever, HUF 380 billion for family tax relief and the benefit of the first married couple. And it will also be beneficial for family members to benefit from the benefit that next year the family tax allowance will also be available for labour market contributions, with a further HUF 1 billion for families. There will also be significant changes in business, since the eva will cease, and smaller entrepreneurs will be able to choose a much more favourable form of taxation, such as kata and kiva, which is also very popular, hundreds of thousands of people are now taxed in Hungary. The primary objective remains the whitening of the economy, so from 1 July 2020 a receipt should be given for so-called VAT-free transactions and services and, in the case of online account data, the threshold of HUF 100,000 will be abolished. This means that more and more people are entering the system by providing online accounts, so that more and more revenue accounts are visible to the NAV. It is important that, for three years, the NAV has prepared a personal income tax return for entrepreneurs, and this will extend from 1 January 2021 to the preparation of the draft VAT return, since from 1 January 2021 NAV will see virtually all invoices issued. It is important that pensioners are also exempt, and in the future, pensioners pay only 15% of their contributions, and no other contributions have to be paid. Finally, I would like to say that the rate of the social contribution tax has decreased significantly in recent years, as it was still 27 per cent in 2016, with only 17.5 per cent from 1 July 2017, i.e. it has decreased by almost 10 per cent in basically over 3 to 3.5 years, and this will continue to decrease by 2 per cent from 1 July 2020, i.e. the rate of the social contribution tax will be 15.5 per cent. The government will continue to support the tax reduction policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-02-88	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I respectfully ask the Member to accept the Secretary of State's reply.
u2019-12-02-89	Thank you, Mr. President. Tax simplifications and partial reductions brought about savings for businesses. We rightly hope that the main figures of the budget will be maintained in this way, which will enable us to continue to finance our social policy efforts, including, in particular, the family support system. What you said was comforting, I accept your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-02-90	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, As we have heard, the congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Ladies and gentlemen, Representative Sándor Székely, an independent Member, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice:. Why have the Labour Courts been terminated? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, State Secretary Pál Völner will answer you. Congressman Székely has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-91	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Today, hundreds of thousands of workers in Hungary work under conditions that are clearly dangerous and against the rules, yet there are hardly any reports, no reports of accidents at work, or any compensation for them. Obviously, because there are no such people, or you can hardly say that my fellow members are pro-government, but the fact is that there are very, very many, and unfortunately very much. What is the reason why workers do not sue, do not go to court, do not fight for their rights? There are several reasons for this. First of all, in 2012, you threw the Hungarian workers to their employers with your shameful labour code. They've weakened the trade union interest, neutered the unions. Then, with bravorous communication, it has been believed for many years that the Canaan is here, and the average wage of EUR 650 is not a disgrace to Hungary, but a great achievement. Of course it is, because Ukrainian, Serbian, or even Mongolian migrant workers, who have been lured here in bulk by you, are also willing to work for a fraction of this. Thus, Hungarian workers are forced to work in an emergency situation: either they work for hunger pay or they go to Western Europe, or they work under impossible conditions, without complying with the minimum labour rules, or the guest workers do this for them. They either keep their mouths shut when they break their legs, because they're out of protective equipment, or they're fired. Then, if anyone tries to go to the labour court, you've made sure that bureaucracy makes them feel better. Based on the new civil order, enforcement has been considerably difficult, the application form cannot be completed by a mortal on the ground, it is not worth receiving a lawyer in view of the small lawsuits that can be won, and some can't even afford to pay for it. The process of applying for a patron lawyer is complicated, and the income limit is also unrealisticly low. The situation has evolved to the point that, as a result of your legislation, it is difficult for someone to go to a labour court because you have also abolished it. The right of Hungarian workers, nurses, bus drivers, policemen, firefighters, highway keepers, electricians to be involved in an accident at work or to be in an argument with the employer in the course of their work, to be brought before a court that understands the problem that workers are talking about. After all, the administrative and labour court will be terminated as a special court, and in the new regulation the President of the Tribunal will assign the judges working in the relevant court to each college. They may be assigned to the employment college by people who have discussed something else before, and labour judges may be able to negotiate economic lawsuits or settle winding-up cases. [[16.00]] The Hungarian government likes to refer to the German judicial model, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is an independent labour and social court. For the above reasons, I would like to ask Judit Varga, Minister of Justice, and the person he has appointed, what reasonable explanation he can give for the execution of labour courts. When will the administration of labour litigation be simplified? What is the assurance that the President of the Tribunal will appoint judges to deal with labour lawsuits for whom this is their area of expertise? Thank you very much, and I'm sorry. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2019-12-02-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, have a seat. That's where they belong. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: That's right! Dr. Agnes Vadai: Ready to run!]] I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-12-02-93	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, In the last two years, I think we've been arguing a lot about you talking about special courts and fiercely opposed setting up administrative courts with centuries of tradition. Now we have come to the point where administrative and labour courts are merging into the ordinary court organisation. I don't understand the question. What's the problem when it's been demanded for two years? Secondly, what you have been talking about, Member, falls under the authority of the OSH authority, which is in its place, is respected by all entrepreneurs, and those who are unfair are terrified of them, because they act with very hard sanctions in the event of any OSH violation that endangers the safety of workers. But back to court questions, as we are now within the system of judicial organisation, we know that there are, for example, criminal matters, civil affairs and the kind of confusion that Congressman is dealing with, but it does not exist. There are judges who deal with criminal matters, some who deal with civil matters, and now there will be judges who deal with administrative matters within the normal judicial framework, and there will be judges who continue to deal with labour lawsuits. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, by raising labour judges to a forensic level, the prestige of this kind of justice will actually rise, too, the prestige of judges will rise. This means that the government pays particular attention to labour judges. I would also like to say that these judges carry out their activities at a high level. I myself, as a practicing lawyer, have been able to follow this activity very closely. It's always been a recognition for the activity they've been doing. Practically, if someone today claims that the labour courts are on the side of employers, it is not only a mistake, but it may even be a risk to make a mistake. So the situation is much more serious than to assume that we can be honest about such opinions. Although the courts don't need protection, I think the work they do deserves all kinds of recognition. The second question is that the labour courts, which you believe will cease to exist, are practically the same judges in the same courtrooms. And the kind of redress system that raises the judgment of the second instance on the judging boards will allow for even more uniform case-law; let us also think of the changes that will practically create a system of judicial judgment that will enable everyone to turn to the court in a predictable manner, and, if the legislation so permits, they will obtain predictable judgments. As far as employee interests are concerned, and it has been said that earlier trade unions' rights would have been undermined: trade unions continue to have the same right to legal representation of workers in labour lawsuits, and we cannot talk about virtually any disincentives or restrictions. We can safely say that if these doubts persist, I think we can continue this debate next year, but I fear that there will be no foundation. Thank you for your attention and for accepting my reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-02-94	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I respectfully ask Mr Sándor Székely to accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2019-12-02-95	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, I'm not in a position to accept your answer. I know of a number of companies, let's stick to the BKK, which couldn't even work if they followed the rules of the employees that are prescribed. It works at all because they operate it, they want to operate it. But if all the rules were followed, then Budapest would probably stop, and this alone raises a mass of labour law lawsuits. But let me give you another example, which is a personal example. Two or three months ago, in front of my father's house, at a height of 4 meters, an electrician installed without any protective equipment, did his job naturally. I asked him how he could possibly go up there by himself without someone and no protective equipment. In answer, he just laughed at me and said that it was because it was Hungary. Thank you very much. I don't accept your answer.
u2019-12-02-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply, so I ask you to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes in favour, 37 against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We're at the end of the interpellations. We're going to take a two-minute technical break, and now it's time for immediate questioning. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. Congressman Péter James, leader of the Jobbik Group, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How long does the Government take advantage of people's patience? It's an address. Mr. Head of the Group, Prime Minister has appointed Minister István Nagy to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask you to accept the person who is responding, or to wait for the Prime Minister to be present and answer from him.
u2019-12-02-97	I'm waiting patiently.
u2019-12-02-98	Thank you very much. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpád, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How long does the Government abuse the patience of the people? It's an address. I would also like to inform you, honourable Member, that the Prime Minister has appointed Minister István Nagy for his urgent public service. [[For signal:]] You indicate that you accept the person who is responding. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-12-02-99	Mr President, Dear House, Mr President, I am disappointed that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has personally been involved in the issue I would like to ask. The exchange rate of the euro above HUF 335 creates an emergency that reduces the budget of almost all Hungarian families, and it is well known that the Prime Minister has rightly said from the opposition that the weak forint is clearly against the interests of the people. Although it is good to look at who is good for exporting companies, it is typically for those multi-companies that are strategic partners of this government in Hungary, but forget to participate typically in public burdens and forget to contribute to the development of the Hungarian people's wage level in such a way as to have a tangible impact in Hungary. We understand that by means of the weak forint, Viktor Orbán and his strategic partners, let us say that it is cheaper to set up a production line for Audi, and it is cheaper to pay the employees, as more forints can be bought for a euro brought here, but the price of the weak forint is paid by the Hungarian population through each import product, whether it be an iPhone, whether it be clothing items for imported food. We see that these articles are typically rare in terms of Hungarian make. [[16.10]] At an average iPhone, we pay 30-40,000 forints for the lower forint price than is justified, in the case of clothing items such as an H&M garment, this item can be up to a few thousand forints. With regard to imported food, we are talking about one piece of fruit, and it can make a difference of up to 30-50 forints, because it keeps the forint exchange rate unduly low, I do not want to be incorrect, not exclusively the Government of Hungary. I am asking the Government of Hungary to do what it does not do on this issue, because in cooperation with the Hungarian National Bank, working as a team, it is possible to influence that the exchange rate of the forint is not so humiliatingly weak. For all of this, the Hungarian forint is one of the world's five worst impairments accounting currencies at the moment. This is an inexplicable, unsustainable situation that the public pays for. How long are you going to keep doing this? [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-12-02-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer from Minister István Nagy. Here you go, Minister.
u2019-12-02-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My dear fellow Member, Dear House, Hungary's economy is basically based on exports. Our aim is to ensure that all the products we produce here in Hungary are placed on foreign markets at the most competitive price, creating jobs, economic foundations, all the hoarding that will help us achieve the goals that can improve people's everyday lives. I'd argue that you're saying on your question that you're not contributing to the improvement of the wage situation. If you watch, wage developments agreed in advance in Hungary in recent years are taking place, long-term wage developments are taking place. All economic results make this possible. He is worried about importing products that he is coming to Hungary and that this is more expensive; I say that we can also understand that we are protecting the domestic market, the domestic product. After all, we need to know how to put the domestic product first, as this will enable us to change and support the Hungarian workplace. How the iPhone comes into this picture, I don't think it's a matter of life. Anyone who can buy an iPhone can buy it at that price. So the euro exchange rate is practically necessary to support the Hungarian economy, to support Hungarian exports, to support Hungarian economic growth, and all that is most important to us is to keep the exchange rate stable. The stable exchange rate practically provides a security on which the Hungarian economy can build safely. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-12-02-102	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpát. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-103	Mr President, Dear House, Well, stable exchange rate is also a stable high forint price. I must say that I am very sorry, Minister, that we are talking about a highly prepared specialist, that he is forced into this situation to give such an answer. Explain to young people in the box that smartphones are not essential to the 21st century. It's a century! Well, let this parliament rise to the challenges of this age. These are quite amazing answers. [[A round of applause from Jobbik and LMP.]] I would like to quote one, and by doing so, the answer that I will receive can be zeroed, because it is your boss, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, from whom I quote: "The weaker forint is clearly contrary to the interests of the people. The weaker forint means a weaker state, and weak forints can only be wanted by weak people. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2019-12-02-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute counter-answer is also due to Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2019-12-02-105	The truth of the answer and the content of sentences is always determined by the situation. [[An uproar from the opposition.]] Always pay attention to a particular economic situation. It does not depend on whether we are in opposition or in government, but on the economic conditions in the country or in the European Union. It should always be taken into account and the economic aspects of the country should be taken into account. There was a time when the truth was in that situation, and now the situation is that the weak forint is stable, it helps the Hungarian economy to function. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-12-02-106	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Member László Varga, representative of the MSZP, notary of the National Assembly, wishes to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question:, How do you intend to support local community transport? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Minister Tamás Schanda has appointed Minister of State to respond to an urgent public task. Congressman tells me you'll accept the response. Congressman László Varga has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, There's a legislative amendment package, a salad law on the Parliament's table. One element of this is the amendment of legislation on local business tax. From now on or after the adoption of local authorities should be the first to use their local industrialisation tax revenues to finance local public transport. This is a whole new situation compared to the previous one, although only one word is changed in this law. It is clear that, as has been said so far, justified costs not covered by revenue could have been applied for by the municipalities or by municipal transport companies, and could have recourse to the State for State aid. This is the most serious concern for Budapest, because it is more than HUF 10 billion, but it also affects 23 county-righted cities and 48 smaller settlements as well as their transformation. I ask you, Mr. Secretary of State, not first of all, the representative of the government: how can a 100% municipal-owned transport company not be covered by revenue after the legislative amendment, so if this is accepted? There is a risk that you might actually want to push the funding of local public transport entirely to local authorities. I also asked this last Thursday at the Legislative Committee, and I did not actually receive a concrete reply here, but the rapporteur said that it was the responsibility of local authorities to finance local public transport. So that's not a very good answer in this respect. The state grants of 19 were distributed according to my information. Let me ask you specifically this time, Mr Secretary: what will happen in the years 2020, 21 and 22? Can the local authorities concerned count on aid such as this year? Thank you, Mr. President.
u2019-12-02-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-12-02-109	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, we have discussed this issue several times in this Chamber in recent weeks. I'm gonna try to come clean again. First of all, we need to start there so that it is clear what is government responsibility and what is municipal responsibility. According to the Passenger Transport Act, the Minister responsible for transport is indeed responsible for the public passenger services in the local, regional and suburban areas. At the same time, ensuring local public transport, if they undertake to maintain it, as this is a mandatory task only in the capital, is the responsibility of local authorities or associations of municipalities. I therefore ask that, if you have any questions about this, you should always contact the competent authority, because they are responsible for this question. The municipal law also clearly sets out the role of the local government and the role of the state. In fact, there is only one change to the bill you mentioned, namely that the first step of the business tax is to provide public transport to municipalities. This will be the case everywhere, not only in Budapest, but also in all the settlements concerned. In addition, allow me to say that the state contributes every year to the operation of local public transport in the capital, which is what we will do afterwards, and we hope that if István Tarlós managed to manage the transport of the capital, then Gergely Christmas will also succeed. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-12-02-110	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman László Varga.
u2019-12-02-111	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, He has now acknowledged that this situation is actually being used for political revolver. I ask all my fellow Members not to accept this amendment. In the Western European states, community transport is also on three feet: one third is financed by passengers, one third by municipalities and one third by the state. [[16.20]] That means you turn your back on this story in such a climate situation. There are amazing environmental concerns about this issue! [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Provides more resources for public transport!]] He also went around the answer. I asked specifically whether the municipalities concerned could count on your support in the budget years 2020, 2021 and 2022. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Yes, always. Dr. Balázs Orbán: It's in the budget!]] He didn't answer, so it's clear that these municipalities are being double-crossed. Let me tell you that in addition to Budapest, many large rural cities are also seriously affected by this situation. MVK Zrt. with an otherwise difficult heritage. In Miskolc, he took this legacy from the previous Fidesz leadership. The current municipality will be able to receive 500 million such grants in 2019. If this falls out of the coming years, there will be very serious problems with public transport in Miskolc, and you will be responsible for that. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2019-12-02-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-113	The fact is, honourable Member, that I am asking the Honourable Parliament to accept the amendment of the law once this has become the place for this. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Tamás argues more convincingly.]] The fact is that for the government, as I said in my previous speech, it is particularly important to support local authorities in the performance of their tasks related to local public transport, and the same support that we have given so far, we will continue to give. We have already provided HUF 12 billion in non-refundable funding to Budapest, and we will provide this support in 2020. So if István Tarlós and the capital led by Fidesz-KDNP were able to solve this task, then let us trust that your principle friends will be able to stand on this issue. At the same time, each year the central budget issues a tender for municipal authorities [[The president's ringing the bell.]] This option, state aid, is available to cities. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-02-114	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: after the Pedagogist Festival. Honourable Congressman, Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. [[On the sign of Zsolt Gréczy:]] Congressman indicates that he accepts the person to whom he is responding. Congressman Zsolt Gréczy has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The Teachers' Union held a demonstration on Saturday for the future of children with the support of organisations representing interest in education. Thousands of people attended the demonstration. The organizers decided that the negotiations between the union and the government on the wage increase of teachers and the reduction of labour costs did not result until the deadline given by the trade unions on 22 November, i.e. until the day of the Hungarian public education. Teachers see that the government lacks reception capacity to solve the problems: teachers are overloaded, they are obligated to a lot of unnecessary administration, their wage rise is significantly lower than the increase in wages in other sectors, there is constant political abuse, pressure, there is no free textbook selection. It is fortunate that, as a result of the opposition's yelling, the passage threatening alternative schools has, at least for now, been removed from the educational destructive toolbox of the Orbán government. I'll ask the Secretary of State when they're negotiating with the teachers. What kind of shameful and face-toasting explanation is that the educator is sort of a Soros hireling? Is he really going to be blamed for an 89-year-old man who trained the leaders of Fidesz that there won't be a fair wage increase, that the hours required won't be reduced? How long does the Orbán government continue to humiliate teachers and through them tens of thousands of Hungarian families? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]]
u2019-12-02-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-12-02-117	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Here, some opposition parties are also trying to settle for this demonstration, but it is clear that it was not a DK-sympathetic demonstration here, honourable Member Gréczy, but also teachers' unions for higher wages and other purposes, which you have listed, that they held a demonstration, but they did not, by chance, call back your time, even by chance, say that we would like Ferenc Gyurcsány to take our one month's wages. [[Gergely Harvesto: Oh, my God!]] Ferenc Gyurcsány, let another 15,000 teachers go, Ferenc Gyurcsány closes the educational institutions in 385 places. [[Gergely Arató: I did not see Mr. Secretary of State at the protest. How do you know what they wanted?]] so that more students can get to a teacher, let's add that, and they weren't protesting that they wanted tuition fees. [[Intercoms from opposition lines.]] As in the time of Ferenc Gyurcsány's education, the tuition fee was. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] So I would kindly ask you to respectfully keep your distance from this demonstration, because here teachers have marched along with certain ideas, but this was not an opposition and not a DK demonstration, honourable Member. [[Gergely Harvesto: pro-government!]] There are currently two wage increases: one is the salary increase of school directors and the other is a 30 percent wage increase on average in vocational training, and you know that a 50 percent wage increase has already been made. You should also know, although you voted against the fact that next year's budget law includes HUF 152 billion in the budget sector for wage increases in general, and you should also know that our discussions with trade unions on the strategy round table for public education are ongoing, and we will continue to do so in the future. When the demonstrators presented their petition on Saturday, there was Secretary Bodis of State on behalf of the ITM as Secretary of State for Vocational Training, Mr Maruzsa as Secretary of State responsible for public education in the EMMI, and both received the representatives of teachers. They obviously did not have to introduce themselves, because they have long known each other well, they know each other's negotiating positions, and so they will continue these negotiations. We are open to all such consultations and invite not only trade unions, but also more widely involved in the negotiations. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-02-118	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Zsolt Gréczy has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-12-02-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I don't know how you know that these people who were protesting there... who, of course, you didn't visit because they probably would've whistled it out, but I was in this crowd, and all I could get was a handshake and a good past. You know, they remember the time when the 2002 cycle started with a 50 percent wage increase for teachers. They remember we've renovated hundreds of schools. They also remember that the free textbook has already been introduced by the Medgyessy government, and these people also remember that the university did not have to pay tuition fees, for example, between 200 and 300 thousand plus one million HUF tuition fees, which you introduced in Hungarian higher education. And they also remember that there was a free textbook choice. They also remember that there were more teachers, there was no such shortage of teachers, and they also remember that education was more free, there was no political vesture that they had to share. Your answer is quite simply pathetic. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of DK and MSZP.]]
u2019-12-02-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder also belongs to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-121	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Let's just remember a few things a little bit more precisely than you've said here in broad terms. For whose increase in wages you have referred to here, to the Government of the MSZP of 2002, which your party president, precisely, failed: he hired Péter Gyurcsány Ference Medgyessy as his first advisor, and then as Minister, and then ended up being destroyed, because that was his coup, and he became Prime Minister. It's just that Ferenc Gyurcsány did this, but it wasn't Ferenc Gyurcsány who did it. [[Zsolt Gréczy: 50 percent wage increase...]] Mr. Congressman, textbooks? You talk about textbooks? You were the government in Hungary, led by Ferenc Gyurcsány, which sold the Hungarian National Book Publisher. You privatized the textbook publisher by the name of Nation, and it didn't hurt you that it was in foreign hands, and in the next decade, the library prices increased by 70 percent. 70 percent, Your Honour. They made 14 billion HUF profit for textbook publishers, and they always paid for it with Hungarian families at the beginning of September. Thank you very much. [[Dr. János Fónagy: That's right! Zsolt Gréczy: And the National Trafiks...]]
u2019-12-02-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: When do you intend to resolve the situation? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to answer the question because of his urgent public mission. I respectfully ask you to accept it. [[On the sign of Péter Ungár:]] He'll wait for the Minister to be present in Parliament. I would like to inform you and this House that the Minister must answer you at the hour of the second immediate question. [[16.30]] Dear Parliament, Congressman Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What do you think of Mr. Prime Minister? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, The Prime Minister has appointed Minister István Nagy to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask you to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Prime Minister for the answer personally.
u2019-12-02-123	Mr President, I'm counting on the Prime Minister's answer.
u2019-12-02-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Congressman Bence of Turdai... [[Péter Ungár: No, no!]] Yeah, but it wasn't listed in my script. Thank you very much. What good is the self-employment of your representatives? Dear Parliament, Congressman Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: When can social workers strike? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, I can only tell you right now that Minister has appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári as a response to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask you to accept the response, or to ask the Minister himself for an answer.
u2019-12-02-125	I'm honored by the Secretary of State of Retvári.
u2019-12-02-126	Thank you very much. Congressman Péter Ungár has the floor. I'll wait until Congressman's ready. [[Péter Ungár: I'm ready. After the long foreplay, I'm ready. Defiance.]] You're ready, thank you very much. Please adjust the clock. Congressman's got the floor.
u2019-12-02-127	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The LMP launched a seven-party consultation on the employment and strike rights of social workers in the previous week. Two of the seven parties refused to come this way, Fidesz and KDNP. It seems that these are the two parties in Hungary, for which social workers do not count. The situation, wage and strike situation of social workers in Hungary is at such a level that the Hang has launched a petition from here, too, I ask everyone to sign to raise the wages of social workers. The fact is that even the Prime Minister refused to sit down with the head of the MRKF, even though he had been searching for it in a letter several times. It's just that it's hard for them to get above the Deputy State Secretary level of social workers in the government. At this seven-party meeting, two trade unions, the MRKF and SZAD, were represented and the following claims were made. First of all, it's important to have a minimum salary. Then, what is also very important is that there is a sectoral collective agreement and that the budgetary share of the social sector should reach the EU average. The fact is that there are currently more than 10,000 jobs missing, and the EMMI also says that a strike can only take place if the 100 percent is sufficient. Right now, the way a social worker can strike today is that the two people who are still missing from his shift come in and he can strike. Even now, it's not a hundred percent because of the wage situation in the social sector. So linking the strike to this is incredibly cynical and despicable. The fact is that these people are doing one of the most important jobs in Hungary. Of those 89 thousand people, only 20-30 percent of these people are currently paid above the guaranteed minimum wage. These people get humiliatingly low wages, and you have done nothing to do with it. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-02-128	Thank you very much, Congressman. Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-12-02-129	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Your question was when social workers could strike. I would understand if you asked me, as a question, when will social workers finally get a raise, because then you would have a common goal in it. But what's important to you, the raise or the strike? Because the title of your question suggests that you want a strike so that you can create a kind of political purport. But, honourable Member, I think the point is that everyone is obviously on strike within the framework of the Strike Act. We could see that they did this at the Audi factory when they demanded higher wages. We are also in a series of similar negotiations here, but I am surprised that as an opposition representative, you are more interested in the strike than you are in the wage increase, and you are more interested in it than you are in the wage increases, honourable Member. The last round of negotiations is precisely so that we can move forward with both trade unions mentioned by you on 18 November, and we have indeed failed to agree on the extent of sufficient service as a condition for the strike. Therefore, the next step, which usually takes place this way in the overwhelming majority of cases, is almost exceptional when the two parties agree on this, usually determined by the court. Thus, as always, the court will determine the extent of the service sufficient to ensure that the strike is organised by this union if they join it. In 2010, 87 217 people worked in the social sector, honourable Member. You mentioned 89 thousand, but in fact 99 thousand people are currently working in the social sector. In recent years, we have sought to provide additional resources, and as a result, very low wages have indeed increased by 84 percent in 2010. This is a significant increase in wages, but we believe that this should continue in the coming years. That is why we are also continuing negotiations with the trade unions on how this 84 percent increase can continue to rise. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-02-130	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Péter Ungár. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-131	Social workers would have better things to do than strike, but no matter what you say, the situation is that the nurse working in Vasvár's nursing home has been in the business for more than ten years, earning 162 thousand forints. It's real. And by the way, I'd like to ask the Fidesz to stop whining about politics in the House. Of course, there's politics going on, because that's the whole point of this room. By the way, I would also like to tell the Secretary of State that the strike is a fundamental right enshrined in the Fundamental Law. The strike is currently in the Fundamental Law, but this organization can't live with the right to strike with this court maze like the trial. Guarantee this fundamental right guaranteed by the Fundamental Law, because, once again, 162 thousand forints is earned by a nurse who has been in the profession for more than ten years in a nursing home in the 10th year of the Orbán government! This is your responsibility. Thank you.
u2019-12-02-132	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder also belongs to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-133	Thank you very much. I did not object to your politicalism, but from your speech I opposed the fact that you obviously preferred the strike more than the wage increase. By the way, it was Dániel Z. Kárpát's fellow Member who said a few minutes ago that he imagined a secretary of state giving him a political answer to a political question. I think you should talk to each other about it. There's been a lot of action going on, so you two need to talk more. The strike as a fundamental right, as I said, is assured, and the practice of this was seen by everyone at the Audi factory strike. Honourable Congressman, Allow me, on the other hand, to tell you how much you may have raised, I don't know, the wages of those you know, but those in other social sectors. He who had a secondary education, worked as a child supervisor, and he has indeed drawn decades in the social sphere, and his wages have risen by 116 thousand forints. If someone has just started working as a family care provider, but before that he has a college degree, his salary has increased by 118 500 HUF. Undoubtedly, as I said, we all have a goal to keep these things going. But if you look at foster parents, a foster parent who has a child has four times the amount you receive, and a three - child host nearly three times that. And although you did not vote for this on 12 December last year, you will also be entitled to grandparents' children. We would like to continue this increase. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-02-134	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Bence Tordai, representative of the Dialogue, notary of the Parliament, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: what is going on here? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, The Prime Minister has appointed Minister István Nagy to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask you to accept the identity of the responder. [[On Bence Torda:]] Yes, thank you very much. Congressman, a notary indicates that he accepts the identity of the responder. Congressman Bence of Turdai has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, Gergely Karácsony, the mayor of dialogue in Budapest has reached a complete agreement at the Budapest General Assembly on the conditions under which Budapest contributes to the organisation of the athletic world. In the next five years, Budapest asks for an additional HUF 50 billion for the districts to develop health care. Budapest expects the government to comply with the agreement signed with István Tarlós on cooperation. Budapest asks that the investment in Csepel should not be carried out, but requires that the green area should be increased at the same time as the construction, and that the programme for the large forest of Csepel be implemented. Budapest expects all construction contracts to be public. Finally, instead of a stadium, we need a community event centre, which can also be used for mass sports and cultural events. In response to this, Gergely Gulyás assessed as good news that it was decided that Budapest could host the World Athletics Championship 2023 and added that the majority of the conditions of the capital are included in the plans of the government, and some are already included in the budget for next year. [[16.40]] The only way I can understand this is that the government accepts the conditions of Budapest. Compared to this, the Minister for Finance Mihály Varga said today that there is no free funds in the budget, there is a reserve, but there is no such amount in it. Mr. Secretary. What, then, is the truth? Will you fulfil the conditions of Budapest? Do you or do you not support the development of health care in Budapest? Is it worth the price of a quarter of Puskás Stadium to save 15,000 lives in Budapest? I look forward to your reply.
u2019-12-02-136	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister István Nagy. Here you go, Minister.
u2019-12-02-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman and Honourable House! The answer to your question is clear. After all, by welcoming the government's removal from the construction of the athletic stadium, the government is undertaking to do all that mayor mayor has put on the negotiating table. It's that simple. I mean, by building an athletic stadium, you obviously consider it small, but from my point of view, it's a huge thing. Athletics is the queen of sports, one of the most amazing sports performances in the world. The fact that that part of Csepel Island can be reclaimed is a greenfield investment, a green reconstruction, the people living there, can serve the living conditions of all people. A sports investment is made, which has an impact on health care as well... because it is an old economic basic thesis that every single HUF spent on sports saves 4 forints in health care, so it contributes to fixing our lives. This stadium will be an open stadium, i.e. people can use it to keep their everyday training, the park itself, which forms, helps precisely mass sports, helps to spend leisure time culturally with the support of exercise and sport. The investment in ordering the environment there makes it possible for the people living there to have a quality life. So, if there's a win-win situation in this, then everything Mr. Mayor asks for is practically on a platter from the government. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-02-138	Thank you very much, Minister. You have a one-minute rejoinder for Congressman Bence Tordai.
u2019-12-02-139	Thank you, Minister. That sounds good, but I'm not completely calm. Because Viktor Orbán said here a few weeks ago that what Gergely Gulyás says with his mouth, for example, is not like Viktor Orbán saying with his own mouth and lying to his ministers at any time. Moreover, point 7 of the agreement with István Tarlós states that the independence of the capital is guaranteed. I quote:. The parties state that when the government was established and since then it has not been born, prepared, prepared or prepared, and will not be prepared for any decision, legislation or draft measure that would reduce, undermine the rights, powers and constitutional status of the City Council or the Mayor. The parties feel that the legislation on these matters is in line.Since then, they have wanted to set the rules and continue to insist on what the local authorities should spend their business tax revenue on. We see them talking nonsense, the Minister of Finance says, the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office says, the Minister of Agriculture is a third. So, when it's at least a government decision, we'll be calm. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-02-140	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Minister. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-141	Obviously, I can speak with my own mouth, but I'd like to draw attention to one thing. The government recorded and stated that all the agreements that you made with the former mayor are alive and kept to the last letter. I think that should be sufficiently reassuring for you. By welcoming the government's ability to create conditions under which the athletic stadium will be implemented, I think it can only be interpreted as meeting these conditions again. I think that if there is a good thing, then we can enjoy this together, because the requests of Mr. Mayor are met, the old cherished desire of the Hungarian sports community is fulfilled, so that we can raise the athletics to the right level, the desire of the sports-loving audience to see a world-class event in Hungary, the wish of the Csepelians that the region itself can be reborn, can be renewed as green, and can make a quality life possible. To me, this absolutely shows that we were talking about a very good investment. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-02-142	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, F Mr Sándor Kovács, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question:. By what means can the legal operation of local authorities be protected? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Minister Balázs Orbán has appointed Minister of State to respond to an urgent public task. Congressman indicates that he accepts the person to whom he is responding. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, F Sándor Kovács, our Fidesz fellow Member, has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, During the campaign of the local elections in October, he revealed that the state of public speech and the purity of public life had deteriorated greatly. Csaba Lackner, who wrote a mandate in Kispest, played this very much in the colours of the social cooperation led by Ferenc Gyurcsány. It is outrageous that the local government of Kispest, led by Péter Gajda Balliberal, gave a commission to Lackner, who broke the moral and legal boundaries without blinking, solely for the sake of his own financial gain. It is an open secret for everyone that Lackner said he could earn a minimum income of HUF 100 million per year by entering into devious transactions and using stromes. And anyone who doesn't think he can do that as a municipal representative is talentless, simply a bot. It is a serious concern that Lackner and his associates, so far without control, are still expecting Lackner as a representative of the Budapest Balliberians who allow gangster methods to be used in an uncontrolled way. In fact, in a hypocritical way, they started a nurse's bath in the press, and there's only one explanation for that: they're still unable to get rid of Lackner. It is regrettable that there is no new under the sun in the house on the left, as they have returned to the well-established corruption methods in the '90s. It must therefore be made clear to everyone that, without consequences, no one in Hungary can cause a serious decline in the purity of local public life and the legal functioning of local authorities. That is why the Fidesz Group calls on Lackner to return his mandate and the left of the capital to leave him as soon as possible. In view of these, I respectfully ask Mr Secretary of State how the purity and functioning of public life and local authorities can be protected. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-02-144	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I have already said, Parliamentary Secretary Balázs Orbán answers the question. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-12-02-145	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Following the municipal elections on 13 October, there was a new situation in some municipalities, but the government's posture did not change. We have been, as before, interested in the development of settlements, both in Budapest and in all rural settlements. Therefore, we will also provide all the conditions for opposition-led municipalities that were available to former government-led municipalities. At the same time, we think and defend the interests of all opposition and pro-government voters in this regard, that voters have sent local government leaders and representatives there to act in the interest of the settlement. You said that the campaign that preceded the 13 October election was not the most glorious period in the history of the Hungarian campaign, and that there were moral, morally unacceptable and public actions on both sides. However, the result was only on the government side. As you mentioned, Csaba Lackner is still alive and well; as you said in that video, the salary of the head of the trustee involved in corruption cases has been doubled, no responsibility has been taken. I think that this is not a legal issue, but it is a political issue; political responsibility must be shared by the opposition parties, who are sitting here in Parliament and are united in supporting, unfortunately, Csaba Lackner and his associates in pursuing this unacceptable activity. It's sad, I think we can all agree on that. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[16.50]]
u2019-12-02-146	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Sándor F Kovács is entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I think that we should set an example for all of us who are here in Parliament and who are elected in the municipalities. And I think we can set an example, and we're trying. [[Lajos Rig: On the Adriatic...]] And we must take care of the authority of this House. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Have you ever been on a yacht?]] Care must be taken of the authority of the Hungarian political system so that the people in our party and ourselves can set an example. [[Comrade Borkai!]] I ask everyone, either the Socialist Party or us, to solve these things and set an example with our own lives. And even if my fellow Members do not like this, let us be able to set an example and start with these things without such abuse in either party. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-12-02-148	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-149	Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, I'd like to be optimistic, but I'm a pessimist, because all I've heard in your speech is a bit of a pep talk. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: No Borner, Borkai!]] and I see that representatives of DK, MSZP, Jobbik and Dialogue continue to defend the indefensible and continue to protect Csaba Lackner. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: We're not protecting him, we're drinking wine! I mean, you guys are drinking wine.]] That is exactly what we have been talking about, Mr President, both of us, that there is a consequence of such things on the right, on the conservative civilian side, and there is no consequence on the left. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman:]] This is the difference between the two sides, and we believe that this difference should not appear, and that you should all take political responsibility, in a joint and inseparable manner. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: That's why he ran for president with Fidesz logo!]] And thank you very much for bringing this issue to the House of Parliament, because until there is a change in this respect, it is our duty to deal with this matter. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-12-02-150	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman János Stummer, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How long does the Government abuse the patience of the people? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Prime Minister has appointed Minister István Nagy to respond to an urgent public task. [[János Stummer nodds.]] I don't have to ask you any more, Mr President. Mr President, it is an indication that you accept the person you are responding to. Mr. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2019-12-02-151	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Fidesz Ladies and Gentlemen! Tell me, what do you think of Katalin Novak's statement last week? You know, he was the one who got carried away last week to the declaration that there was prosperity in Hungary. Tell me, my fellow Members, do you think that the father who left three children in his pockets was fleeing from prosperity? Who can't hold their hands if they get a good grade today? Who can't hug them when they're in trouble? The one who won't be able to be on their Christmas show? Do you also think that a woman who has a German pensioner in bed with Dortmund has fled from prosperity rather than taking care of her own sick and elderly mother in her old age? Or is it that young man who, although he had a decent profession at home, had to leave Mom, Dad, families and love just because he wanted to fulfill his dreams? The question is to the Secretary of State, to the Minister, but feel free to take it upon yourselves. It concerns all of you, it's a shared shirt, no one object to it, because all of you, all of you, all of you, and the representatives of the previous cycles, the governments that lied to the left. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Why are you running with them in an alliance?]] and the governments that are now lying to themselves on the right are jointly responsible for the fact that more than half a million Hungarians have left this country and have taken their future to the West. And you shouldn't be smiling sarcastically under the moustache, but you should finally realize that these people didn't flee this country for the sake of prosperity, but because of limited party soldiers like you, who made this beautiful country look like a desert. The teacher left because it's better to drive out of here for nothing than to swallow a tear at home. The nurse's gone, and tens of thousands of people at the hospital are dying because you weren't willing to pay decent wages to health care workers. Everyone's out of here. You're the only ones left behind, but not for long. Not for long, because the people they took their future from will take back their country. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And you can go wherever you want with the word of God. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches. Nacha Lawrence applauds. Intervention from the benches of the governing parties: What was the question? Dr. Bence Rétvári: This party has already been abandoned by Gábor Vona!]]
u2019-12-02-152	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer to Mr President's immediate question, as I said, will be given by Minister István Nagy. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2019-12-02-153	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, My fellow Member! Thank you for the opportunity. I must admit, I was very sad to hear those emotional overheating sentences you just gave me. [[Interview from the benches of the governing parties: Oscar Prize!]] It often happens to you, and you often introduce our fellow countrymen who work abroad to refugees who would be in total trouble at home. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: That's right!]] Do you not understand that the point of the European Union, the European Community, is that it is free to work? Let me ask you, in all fairness, how are young people doing only in Hungary? Aren't the young Germans going? The young Swiss? Even the Swiss kids are going. So in young people, it's completely realistic, rightfully involved, I'm not saying it's an adventure, but it's an opportunity to try themselves, to get to know a new life, a new way of life, to invent themselves in a new situation. And you don't have to regret it, but you have to say it's okay, try it yourself; the experiences you've gained there, bring it home, and then you'll have to carry on here, and you'll get on with it at home, at our place. It should be an opportunity for all young people who are out there to work now and gain experience. My fellow Member! The whole Hungarian history, the whole Hungarian professionalism and the development of the professions were all aimed at going to study for young people, getting practice abroad, hundreds of years ago, and then coming home and doing everything they had experienced in Hungary. So I'm asking you not to hurt them, not to look at them as refugees, but as an opportunity for them to come home and enrich this country with that knowledge and experience. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And he's got the wealth they got there. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Dr. Winner Vinnai in the notary seat.]]
u2019-12-02-154	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman János Stummer. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-155	Anyone who graduated here, in this country, and then washes dishes next to Bristol with his diploma didn't go to the West to train himself, Minister. It seems that I was not clear enough in my first speech, so I ask you once again: can you identify with the statement and statement made by the Secretary of State last week that there is prosperity in Hungary at the moment? Answer that question, Minister. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-12-02-156	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2019-12-02-157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must say that everyone has the right to decide whether to accept a graduate position at home or to give up the thoughts they have learned to leave, because they want to make more money somewhere else by washing dishes. That's his business. We can't question his decision because he can choose to do so as a free man. And I have to say, whether there's prosperity or no prosperity, it's always a matter of reference. One fact is that people live better today than when we took over this government in 2010, I do not think there is any doubt about it. So all that this government could do to improve people's lives, with tax incentives, family-friendly laws that helped the children to be born here, and the people who did more, ask questions and answer that question. I think this government did what it could in such a way. Thank you for asking. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-12-02-158	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Member András Aradszki, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office an immediate question: instead of a stadium stop, a hospital stop? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, The Minister appointed Mr Balázs Orbán State Secretary for his response in response to an urgent public mission. I respectfully ask you, accept your response. [[Dr. András Aradski nodds.]] Thank you very much for your prompt signal. Mr Orbán accepts Mr Balázs State Secretary as a reply. Congressman András Aradski has the floor. Here you go. [[17.00]]
u2019-12-02-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Gergely Christmas considered stadium constructions to be a waste of money, wasted money, and campaigned with the promise of stadium stop in Budapest during the municipal election campaign. From this same Christmas Gergely for many months we have heard nothing but the need to promote health development instead of stadiums. Despite the promises made in the campaign, it has now been found that the Budapest General Assembly led by Gergely Christmas did not support the proposal that would provide HUF 50 billion in support of outpatient care in the district, nor did it propose supporting the construction of the Center Hospital in South Buda. The latter is the 11th one itself. The district mayor of Gyurcsányi was also involved and indicated. Once again, it has been proven that the opposition promises anything, but when it comes to power, it does not keep its promise. Maybe we'll let him not be able to cope with three centimeters of snow today. In return, the City Council was converted into a paying place for the loyal cadres of the opposition, where besides five sub-Mayors, Tibor Draskovics, János Atkári and Olga Kálmán also received a large salary. In the past, the opposition has not been very supportive of the health framework growth brought here by the government to Parliament. Now we spend 427 billion forints more on health than in 2010, but if it were up to the opposition, there would be no wage increase, there would be no development, there wouldn't be a Healthy Budapest, there wouldn't be any supply of equipment, there would be no hospital renovation. The 2020 budget, which is not supported by the opposition, also spends more than HUF 184 billion on health than it did this year. The question arises, Mr. Secretary: what will happen here? How did the stadium stop become a hospital stop? What will happen here when the opposition fails to keep its election promise? Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-02-160	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Balázs Orbán, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-12-02-161	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, He's asking me what's gonna happen here. For now, we're confused about what's going on. It's probably the usual left-wing chaos that we can expect, because the thing is, apparently, there's a stadium stop in the campaign, and now we're meeting with a hospital stop. We believe that, by the way, the athletic stadium planned for the North Csepel and related to it, as Minister said several times, brownfield investment is supported by the Metropolitan Assembly and the districts, it is a good decision, but the fact that the case of the Super Hospital in South Buda is not supported, and that is a bad decision, because this super hospital would serve 1.2 million people in Budapest, and if the people in the agglomeration can be taken here, because they are also using the supply system in Budapest, we can talk about about 3 million people. We see that the conditions set by the capital are being fulfilled now. They talk about why the government does not spend HUF 50 billion on health care in Budapest; the whole thing is a joke, in fact, the entire health care in Budapest is being spent by the Ministry of Human Resources, let's say, in the case of the Honvéd Hospital, the Ministry of Defence is all in the budget. And the program is not a 50 billion-dollar program, it is a hundreds of billion-forint development program, in which four center hospitals will be created, and 25 hospitals in Budapest, Pest county, as well as a specialist clinic would be developed by the government. Only for this development next year, which is a special item, HUF 42 billion is planned in the budget. We think that if this is so important to Budapest, they should spend at least one forint on health care from the budget of more than HUF 300 billion in Budapest. There doesn't seem to be as much commitment in this as the commitment in the campaign to the stadium stop. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-02-162	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman András Aradski has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder.
u2019-12-02-163	Thank you for your reply, Secretary of State. As a South Buda representative and a representative of the Southern Buda constituencies, I think it is important to mention and underline that the agglomeration needs the center hospital in South Buda, since 24 hours of emergency, child and adult care and III. This hospital will also be able to provide progressive care, and we believe that the right to establish it cannot be taken away from us by the general assembly of Budapest's capital, cannot be taken away by the Mayor and cannot be taken away by the XI. Not even a district mayor. We believe that in this respect the part of the Members who represent this region is uniform and we are asking the Government to do everything in its power to ensure that the South Buda Centre Hospital is implemented, because it serves the health care of the people in the agglomeration. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-02-164	Thank you very much, Congressman. At a one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Balázs Orbán Secretary of State is coming. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-12-02-165	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I have written a few things about what we see, what is happening in Budapest in the 21st year of the Demszky era. What we see is that there is money for consultants, there is a tax increase, there is a will to think about property tax and congestion charges, there is always time to accept meaningless declarations, and there is always a majority to protect socialist principle friends involved in corruption cases, and, by the way, when hospital constructions need to be voted down, then suddenly all opposition representatives are in the room and press the button with great enthusiasm. Meanwhile, what we see is that they are failing in urban operations, they want to withdraw money from public transport, they are not spending any more on public cleanliness, public security is not being strengthened, local entrepreneurs are not being strengthened, and they do not want to devote it to the development of health care. We are not happy about this, but this is the picture today, in 2019. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-02-166	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question:. Who does Fidesz exempt from the law? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Minister Tamás Menczer asked the Secretary of State to reply in response to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask you, accept your response. [[Dr. Zita Gurmai: Yes, I accept the Secretary of State.]] Thank you very much. For the sake of the record, I must say that you indicate to me that you accept the person who is responding. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai...
u2019-12-02-167	The clock just started, so I'll...
u2019-12-02-168	I'll have it restored. [[It's happening.]]
u2019-12-02-169	Okay, thanks. You're very kind.
u2019-12-02-170	Thank you very much.
u2019-12-02-171	Dear House, Orbán's clear effort to continuously weaken the EU and to present Russia led by Vladimir Putin as an orientational alternative for Hungary. This direction is linked to the Paks II project and the management of the related Russian loan, its total lack of transparency and confusion. The International Investment Bank moved to Budapest can also be listed here. It is a relatively small financial institution, which the Orbán government grants almost as special preferential treatment as the large international institutions. Neither the size of the bank nor its activities support this. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] In the light of these reactions, it is reasonable to assume that you have not previously consulted with your EU and NATO allies, the official, semi-official and informal criticisms and statements from the EU and the United States. I hope you can disprove me. After all this, we should not be surprised that the international press has also taken this decision with suspicion, and that this bank is actually a Russian intelligence front through which President Putin can send spies to the European Union, they can abuse the wide-ranging exemptions we have been granted. So far, no one has actually been able to answer what is the national interest of Hungary, which justifies the relocation of NBB to Budapest and the granting of preferential treatment to our EU and NATO allies. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State: why does the Orbán Government consider the moving of the International Investment Bank to Budapest and granting special preferential treatment to Hungary as a national interest? Has the government continued or continued discussions and negotiations with our EU and NATO allies on the criticisms and concerns raised? Is the Fidesz government willing to regularly report to the public in the future on who, and what kind of immunity, is granted under the auspices of the NBB? Will the bank have the right to manage forints or take them abroad? I hope I get a clear answer. Thank you.
u2019-12-02-172	Thank you, Congresswoman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Tamás Menczer, State Secretary, answers the immediate question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[Sándor Szabó replaces the gullible Dezső in the notary seat.]]
u2019-12-02-173	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In relation to what you said at the beginning, I would like to say that I do not agree, the Hungarian Prime Minister or the Hungarian Government do not aim to weaken the European Union, and we have seen the opposite process in recent years. If he had made a promise on more than one subject, Brussels, the European Union would move forward with the Hungarian proposals. [[Gergely Arató and Zsolt Gréczy intervene.]] In addition, Hungary's aim is also to strengthen the Hungarian government, and this is taking place in all areas. [[17.10]] What you have raised about the bank is about the International Investment Bank, we have talked about this bank several times within these walls, and we are doing it again. I would like to tell you that, although you call this a Russian bank, it is not a Russian bank, it is an International Investment Bank; on the other hand, if you look at its ownership structure, it is owned by 9 countries, of which 5 are members of the European Union and NATO, including Hungary, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Romania and Bulgaria. These five countries have 52.1 percent ownership in the bank. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that all domestic and international legislation has, of course, been complied with by all parties involved in the establishment of the Budapest office. As far as exemptions are concerned, the staff of the bank do not have diplomatic immunity, I would like to remove this misunderstanding; they have functional immunity, as do the other international organisations in Hungary with headquarters in Budapest. We are pleased that there are more and more such organizations. For example, last time, Minister for Foreign Affairs was able to announce the launch of the UN Regional Centre against Terrorism in Budapest. And yes, my answer to one of your questions is, yes, we're consulting our partners, we have secret service cooperation. We did not receive any signal that would have led the government to take action on the bank. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-02-174	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return.
u2019-12-02-175	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'm glad you gave me some reassuring answers to some of my questions. One question is left out: does the bank have the right to manage forints or take them abroad? Because I think it would have been important. I trust that if it is, then we have a chance. Thank you.
u2019-12-02-176	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-12-02-177	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, As far as the figures are concerned, I would like to draw your attention, which is certainly good news from the point of view of the Hungarian economy, that the institution has so far provided EUR 76 million of financial resources to Hungarian companies and has successfully issued some HUF 50 billion of bonds on the Hungarian market. This has all contributed to economic recovery and economic growth in the Central European region. As far as Russian relations are concerned, I would like to draw attention to a related fact or facts, not about the bank, but it is important: German-Russian trade turnover increased by 56 percent last year, French-Russian 40%, Italian-Russian 37 percent, and Dutch-Russian trade turnover by 23 percent last year. I just wanted to mention this in connection with the fact that, if we mention Russian commitment or, where appropriate, double standards, then these facts may be important. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-02-178	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the immediate questioning. It's 5:12 p.m., and we're moving on to questioning. Dear Parliament, Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Justice a question, "When will we finally move to the 21st century, or will the government continue to shut down from the vote on the Internet?" It's an address. Congressman Gergely Farkas has the floor.
u2019-12-02-179	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In recent years, the possibility of creating electronic voting in Hungary has been raised several times in Parliament, but no progress has been made. I am therefore interested again in what the government generally thinks of the e-vote, including the votes that can be cast via the Internet, is planning to create an opportunity. Online voting, in professional language: i-vote pioneer Estonia, where it has been possible to cast votes online since 2005, i.e. for 14 years in every election. This option has been given to all Estonian citizens, and we have never heard of serious abuses or scandals from the Baltic State. In the last parliamentary election, the Estonians made more use of this opportunity than ever before, with 44 percent of the votes received online in the early March elections. An important argument in favour of the i-vote is that once an adequate secure infrastructure has been set up, the i-vote is likely to be cheaper than the traditional one and significantly more electoral participation could be achieved. For example, a remote vote would give young people, people with disabilities or citizens working abroad under duress the opportunity to take part in the vote. From previous reactions by the government, it seems clear that there is no plan to launch a vote on the Internet in Hungary in the coming years. I am just saying this because, between my question and my speech, there was a parliamentary committee hearing, I asked the Minister for Innovation on this issue, and to my surprise, the Minister for Innovation himself said that they did not support it, because they do not want to take away from people this holiday that they are going to vote. On the one hand, it wouldn't be mandatory, and on the other hand, to use this argument, let's say ban e-mailing, because how bad it is now, how inhuman, impersonal, while, let's say, writing a paper by hand would be a more nostalgic feeling, it would be more logical, in your argument, to ban e-mailing, too. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And I can make other absurd arguments. At the end of my time, I can only ask the question: did you plan to introduce it, or do you continue to oppose it? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-12-02-180	Thank you. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Pál Völner will answer the question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-12-02-181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, supporters of the Internet vote model Estonia, where it has been possible to vote on the Internet in parliamentary elections since 2007. Problems related to this have attracted the interest of several Hungarian and foreign researchers. Mathematician Márton Nasódi, assistant professor of ELTE, member of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, explained in his most recent article that there is no online vote here and in other countries, because there is no technologically reliable internet voting system. [[Dr. László György Lukács repeatedly intervenes.]] The practical reason for this is that online systems can be hacked, even systems that are quite large and thought to be safe. A voting software, however, should be safer than anything, because it works with extremely sensitive data and no chance errors or manipulations are permitted. The Internet vote is only vulnerable because it consists of a lot of components, multiple servers, imperfectly maintained home computers of voters, including routers and thousands of other telecommunications devices. It's impossible to rule out a single component of it being manipulated by anyone. The theoretical reason is that the voting system should meet two conflicting criteria, verifiable and anonymity at the same time. It should be possible to check that the box actually contains the votes cast by voters, but the relationship between voters and voters must be cut in the spirit of anonymity. The problem is that if we can no longer connect the vote to the voter during the count, then we cannot be sure that the votes that we see together at the end of the process have actually been cast. The Estonian solution, considered as an example, does not even aim to verify the outcome afterwards. The OSCE examined the Estonian model in March 2011, proposing that Estonia abolish the online voting system as it is unsafe. Therefore, this method was not introduced in Norway or France, because of its risks it is inoperable, and it is not a coincidence that it only operates in Estonia. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-02-182	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Sándor Szabó, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. In order to improve sustainable transport and speedy and shorter travel time, will you review the changes to the rail timetable planned on the Budapest-Szeged line next year? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2019-12-02-183	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, MÁV-Start Zrt. appeared a few days ago. a new schedule plan on the Budapest-Szeged line, which has greatly shaken the moods. According to the changes, two train pairs between Budapest and Szeged would not stop, which would result in 72 minutes of time gain, while 18 other trains lose 296 minutes of time, which I think will also upset the schedule in full. I do not like this schedule amendment either for Szeged or for Kecskemét. The Mayor of Szeged also wrote a letter to MÁV Zrt. by rethinking the draft, as passengers may lose the possibility of direct re-traveling. One intercity would upset the timetable of three or four other trains, and local public transport is also adapted to the arrival of the current, usual trains. And the Kecskemétians, the Association for the Famous City, started to collect signatures directly, and thousands of people have already signed a petition in which they also protest against this timetable amendment. On the one hand, Kecskemét would not be able to stop several trains, on the other hand, it is clearly adversely affected by several cities in the region. It is welcome that the MÁV is examining the development of a sustainable mode of transport, but if these cause more problems than they are beneficial, I think that this should not be done. [[17.20]] It could be examined how to double-track the railway line between Kiskunfélegyháza and Szeged and increase speed. On this basis, I would like to ask the Secretary of State to review the changes to the rail timetable planned on the Budapest-Szeged line for the next year in order to maintain the well-established timetable for the future by MÁV. In order to improve transport, are you planning to double-track the 60-kilometer section between Szeged and increase speed? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2019-12-02-184	Thank you very much, Congressman, Mr Parliament. The question will be answered by Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-12-02-185	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The fact is that the wonderful thing about Parliament, among other things, is that it can be a place for great changes. Since the politicians of the MSZP have been in opposition, they have been extremely concerned about Hungarian rail transport. On the other hand, as long as they were in government before 2010, they had the opposite attitude, and they did everything they could to eliminate the railway consciously. At the time, they sought to close the wing lines, so they tried to save money because of their misguided economic policies. There were settlements left without rail access because they wanted to save money on people. The situation, honourable Member, and honourable Parliament, is that it is of particular importance for the government to improve the competitive rail availability of county-righted cities, as demonstrated by a number of other developments in the 2019-2020 agenda, in addition to the acceleration of two pairs of intercity in Szeged daily. Among other things, new IC trains and faster flights will run on countless destinations. Accelerating the intercity in Szeged means that compared to the 2 hours 22 minutes running, these flights will take just over 2 hours to travel between the capital and Szeged. Shorter travel times provide a competitive alternative to individual road transport with peak departures and arrivals in line with the schedule of university students. Honourable Congressman, The line is not falling, but the number of trains is increasing. In the busiest conditions, passengers' real-time travel time will also be significantly reduced. Please accept my answer. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-12-02-186	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, MEP Lajos Oláh, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. How does the government prepare Hungarian businesses and workers for the challenges of roboticisation? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2019-12-02-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House of Representatives, Dear Secretary of State, Unlike your former posters, the work of Hungarians will not be taken away by migrants, but by roboticisation and artificial intelligence, which will raise a huge demand for employees who can control and manage robots. Instead of two-handed work, one can become a leader, a decision-maker, but this will require new skills and abilities. On the other hand, roboticization can trigger two processes. Since it will no longer be important for labour-intensive industries to be deployed in countries where wages are low, it can start relocating industrial and service activities to developed countries, but previously displaced production can also lead to more knowledge-intensive support and service activities in countries where the necessary knowledge and skills are available. So in order to benefit from robotisation, we will need a mass of digital knowledge, language skills, empathy, communication skills and cooperation, i.e. all the things you have eliminated from public and higher education, especially vocational training. I therefore ask Mr Secretary of State what is the government's strategy for Hungary to be a winner and not a loser of robotics. How are Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises traditionally poorly performing in innovation encouraged to adapt to new challenges? What changes are planned in public education, vocational training and lifelong learning so that Hungarian workers can find their place in the world of roboticisation and artificial intelligence? Has your institution, HIPA, switched to providing support for investment in Hungary only in the event that they investigate the effects of roboticisation and artificial intelligence? Thank you very much.
u2019-12-02-188	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. You have the floor.
u2019-12-02-189	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The fact is that the Hungarian economy is performing better. It is also clear that today 810 thousand more people are working than in 2010 when, after the disastrous governance of his boss Ferenc Gyurcsány, we were commissioned and authorized by the Hungarian people to lead the country. The unemployment rate has since fallen from 12 percent to 3.5 percent. In Hungary, after the lack of hope and hope caused by Balliberal governments, you can now think ahead, which is what your question is about. Honourable Congressman, The objective of the Fidesz-KDNP government is clear and clear: by 2030 we want to be one of the five European countries where it is best to live, live and work. In order to achieve this and improve the country's competitiveness, it is necessary to promote innovation, increase domestic added value and technological change. Therefore, the government sees you as an opportunity, not as a threat, but as an opportunity. This is why the Ministry of Innovation and Technology was established in 2018. It's comforting that even if it's a little late, you appreciate our efforts. Honourable Congressman, As you said, the requirements for human labour change and the skills to help people and technology work together are appreciated, complex problem solving, critical thinking and creativity. That is what the new vocational training system is all about. The new VET system provides an appropriate solution to the challenges identified. Our aim is to get young Hungarians out of the school system by having skills and competences that underpin the acquisition of the skills required by the economy and technologies and lifelong learning. It is therefore sad that they have not supported the reform of vocational training. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-12-02-190	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Krisztina Hohn, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:.. How will the Committees that are already overloaded be able to carry out the review? It's an address. Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn has the floor.
u2019-12-02-191	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, In July 2019 the Hungarian Parliament voted in favour of the amendment of the Public Education Act, changing, among other things, the rules of procedure of expert inquiries to establish the level of development required for entering the school. However, the provision on the implementation of the new law is not yet available, so there has been an uncertain situation in relation to the education of children of compulsory age. The current state of affairs puts the professionals of the so far competent pedagogical services, kindergarten educators, and the parents concerned in a worrying situation, placing unknown professional and resource burdens on employees and stakeholders in the system. Several professional and parental organisations have expressed their concerns and objections before and since the introduction of the law. The situation may be more manageable if some questions are answered. So my questions are: when will there be more information about what tests and procedures will be used to determine whether the child is matured? The Commission's decision is always based on a specific study, but this only reflects the child's current state, which may be affected by illness or fatigue. Can a single examination really make a decision that reflects the child's condition? If the expert committee decides that the child can go to school, the parent has the right to go to court, but underprivileged people do not have sufficient financial background, and in many cases they are not informed enough. What or who will protect them so that they do not suffer a disadvantage because of their financial situation? How will the Committees that are already overwhelmed be able to carry out the review? Thank you very much.
u2019-12-02-192	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor.
u2019-12-02-193	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Let's not say for the first time today that we are talking about a system where there are the same conditions for school maturity as before. Nothing has changed with regard to the characteristics of children. Last year, he was a school maturer, a child a year younger than he was, and he has the same qualities, and he's a school maturer again this year. So there's no change in that. [[17 .30]] The only change is that this is not done on a paper basis there, in kindergarten, school, locally, but on a digital interface, in a medium where they can handle these requests more uniformly. In the same way as before, the development log can be taken into account, medical certificates, written opinions of the kindergarten educator, educator or development educator, and written opinions of the pediatrician. These were previously, or were the committees mentioned by you, which carried out this task before, and were based on the opinion of a psychologist, a medical educator, a consultant, or a doctor, on previous decisions to postpone, stating that the child was either a school maturer or not a school maturer. So the same actors are involved, the same committees are routinely familiar with this activity, there is nothing new about it, and they are looking at the same conditions, they are looking at the same abilities as before. The only difference will be that the maturity of the school will be influenced by the real state of the child and not by his address. It will be decided not on the basis that one or another settlements decide whether they are school matured or not, to be more precise: they will determine whether they are school matured or not, but on a national level, uniformly through the Education Office's surface, which is a digital interface, so they do not have a period of closure, can be uploaded continuously. The regulation appeared about ten days ago, where everyone can be aware of the various detailed rules, and the deadline is extended by an amendment to 30 January. That's how everyone can now submit their applications digitally. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-02-194	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai, a representative of Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. Designezie the Government to launch a national consultation on climate protection, which is publicly properly announced, thorough, correct, fair and unmanaged? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-12-02-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The Hungarian government has already held a national consultation, with billions of newscasts each, on pensions shortly before it promised to steal private pension fund savings, it also held about the Soros plan or about stopping Brussels. However, the only consultation on the real issue of fate, the climate crisis that determines all our lives, was launched because of an EU obligation, carried out in a completely unprofessional way, and tried to keep it a secret, not by accident. As long as the Orbán government in Europe has an unprecedented lack of interest in the climate disaster, and Orbán's favourite oligarch, Lőrinc Mészáros, is the largest carbon issuer, you will obviously not be interested in conducting such a real consultation. Fortunately, the press discovered this encrypted climate consultation in time and received public questionnaires against the government's will in the last few days, hundreds of thousands of concerned Hungarian citizens filled it out. At the same time, István Hollik, a government spokesperson, said that the government did not want to hear the people's opinion, but only performed an obligation in Brussels. Therefore, the Dialogue has launched a genuine consultation instead of the government, which requires meaningful answers to meaningful questions. We will also inform you and the Union about the results. In the meantime, please inform us when and in what form you will publish an analysis of the responses received, so that the public can know how well people's views are in line with the government's procrastination and counter-responsible climate policy. Since participation was outstanding despite a short period of time, do you plan to launch a thorough, professionally fair and fair consultation on climate protection, supported by a standard billionaire, massive advertising campaign? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2019-12-02-196	Thank you. One point, Mr President: I did not call you Tordai, so Prime Minister Viktor Orbán wished to mention in his speech, I think. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2019-12-02-197	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We have talked about this before the agenda, but I will try to repeat it. On Monday, November 18, 19th, the Ministry of Innovation and Technology shared the questionnaire in a social consultation on the government website, which everyone had the opportunity to fill in, there were no restrictive factors, so let's not call it encryption. We are pleased that the questionnaire was filled out by more than 200,000 people. We process the data, get to know the opinion of the Hungarian people, and we will act accordingly. The government, unlike you, has shown that it is important for it to fight climate change. An excellent example is that Hungary was the first of the European Union countries to ratify the Paris Agreement, and in this spirit we updated the objectives and commitments of the Second National Climate Change Strategy. The fact is, you are as credible in this matter as asking Ferenc Gyurcsány about the right of assembly. They didn't come to their own meeting day, they didn't come, they didn't show up, you took the lead in this. [[Bence of Turda: How did we troll apart when we weren't there?]] That's all they had to add to the question. On the other hand, we believe in action, not hysterical. Honourable Congressman, It is important for Hungary to protect the environment and fight climate change, because we all want clean water, cleaner air and a more bearable climate. However, action can be taken against climate change, and Hungary has done so, and in recent years we have also taken exemplary measures at EU level, and we are progressing effectively and consistently towards the objectives set. Honourable Congressman, Allow me also to respond to you claiming that previous national consultations did not address a real issue of fate [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] immigration does not affect Hungary. The thing is, Congressman, people don't agree with you because of the Soros plan [[The president's ringing again.]] Based on the results of the questionnaire, almost all voters have said no to deploy one million immigrants to Europe every year. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-02-198	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mária Kállai, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2019-12-02-199	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, For the Fidesz fraction, support for sport is of particular importance. Sports creates unity, community. Today, we can say that it is the golden age of sport, as Hungary's Government, treating sport as a strategic sector, has brought about fundamental changes in the sports sector over the last two government cycles, which have never been seen before. Since the change of regime, no government has made such significant progress in the financing of domestic sport as the government of national cooperation. We have the biggest world tournaments in a row to mark only four Olympic qualifying world championships this year: table tennis, fencing, pentathlon, kayak canoe, which is unprecedented in the history of home sport. We continue to be committed to supporting sport, which, with support schemes and professional incentives introduced in recent years, operates increasingly effectively in all areas concerned, from recreational sports to top sport, as well as in re-education. For us, it is important to raise a healthy lifestyle, which must be started in childhood, because exercise with the right amount and intensity contributes to the quality of life of people, to the performance of society and of the economy. Sport is not only important for our health, but, as I said, it also creates unity and community. Our long-term goal is to ensure that as many people play sports as possible, because this will be a huge advantage for Hungary over a decade's horizon. A more athletic nation must spend less on health care, less money in the drug register. Today we were talking about this 1:4 ratio here in the House. It is therefore an important task to further develop the recreational port infrastructure, so that in the future as many sports facilities as possible available to everyone, even free of charge, can be created in smaller settlements, and more and more people from the population. Madam Secretary, in view of the above, I would like to ask how the government supports recreational port. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-02-200	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Tünde Szabó answers the question. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2019-12-02-201	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to agree with this, because sport is very important to all of us, and I agree with the representative woman, because the fundamental principle of Fidesz-KDNP is that one of the most important values of our society, the key to our future, is our children. We believe and believe that every forint we invest in sport is the building of the nation's future, the health of our children, the physical and mental balance. First of all, I would like to draw attention to our sport park "Recreational Health" programme, as we have already handed over 107 sports parks, 556 in progress and 150 in preparation. [[17.40]] Using our program, which is in you, we can help the local governments to implement their leisure programs, with HUF 500 million in support this year. Through the Hungarian Leisure Sports Association, we supported a lot of programs, such as the day of the challenge, the family movement festival, the world walking day or the sports festival of young people, with nearly HUF 230 million in support this year. With the support of HUF 450 million from the Hungarian Association of Natural Travelers, we are primarily trying to encourage the older age group to work, and we have renewed the entire Hungarian tourist route network, adapted to the expectations of the age. The Five Trial is one of Hungary's largest recreational port communities with almost 25,000 members. He waits for athletes with more than 120 events a year, with a grant of HUF 295 million this year. Finally, let me draw attention to the fact that we have been able to contribute successfully to several calls for EU funding of more than HUF 15 billion by way of tenders. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] to use it to support recreation and physical education since 2016 and it will last until 21; as we have only one tool in our hands to preserve and maintain our health, it is sport. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-02-202	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for your reply. Dear Parliament, It's 5:41 p.m., and we're at the end of questioning. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] It is now time for a series of proposals to be discussed. The DK Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the spinal cord in muscle atrophy. on certain questions concerning the financing of children with disabilities [[Intercoms in the pro-government benches. Nacsa Lőrinc: Not relevant! It's solved!]] H/7840. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Welfare Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Gergely Arató. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-12-02-203	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, It is rare in this parliamentary term or even in the last ten years that opposition representatives have the experience of working for something and achieving results. There have been some fellow Members in this House, Mr Imre László or Mr Lajos Rig, who have kept the issue of the treatment of children suffering from SMA on the agenda over the past few years, and there are indeed partial results. It is important to acknowledge that the government is taking action in this matter. I'm not even saying he wouldn't do it on his own. I'm sure that, in accordance with Minister Kasler's medical oath, you're either a fighter on this case, or you want to solve this case. Unfortunately, however, what Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa has just shouted is not true, because an agreement has been reached on the preparation Spinraza. This is a commonly used product registered in Europe. It is a good thing that every child in need can now have this on the basis of the agreement, but this is not the same as the product that has been required to be financed in connection with two small children in recent years. This is not the same as an effective gene therapy product or, hopefully, an effective gene therapy product that can bring much greater improvements in quality of life and life prospects. That's why, Congressman, the problem is not solved. We sense the government's good intentions in this matter, we perceive that there is no political difference between the two sides. It is precisely in this proposal for a resolution that we propose that the government proceed on this path. We are pleased that the government has increased the framework for this type of treatment. We are pleased that one of the medicines is now under contract for people under the age of 18 who are in need, but I have to say, that is not enough. Obviously, there is no debate between us that these children deserve the best treatment possible, and there is no debate about the need to create this opportunity. The proposal is two-stage, just as it has now been in the case of the other medicine. It proposes that the first stage be financed on a case-by-case basis and, in the longer term, on contracts and then on social security inclusion. There is no question, there is no doubt, this has been shown by the social community that in Hungary there is consensus that healing sick children is something that needs to be found, a solution. My fellow Members, at the meeting of the People's Welfare Committee, Fidesz colleagues themselves said that solutions should be found here. Perhaps they abstained because they were not sure what the government's position was on this issue. But now you can see that the government is going in this direction, the government is going in that direction. I ask you to support the inclusion of this proposal for a resolution; if you have a professional objection or wish to clarify, do so in the debate. Let the representatives of the government also come, who are unfortunately not here today, and therefore cannot comment, tell us what their position is, how they intend to proceed. So I would like to say to you that the matter is simple. Now we ask that we discuss how to save the lives of young children, how to heal them, how to give more support and help. We understand that this is also the government's intention. If this is also the Government's intention, then you must not prevent your support for this series of things, so that the Parliament can express its determination in this matter, express its position. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-12-02-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Rig, Jobbik Group.
u2019-12-02-205	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to state in advance that the Jobbik faction will support this proposal, because this is about talking about it, discussing it. Mr Arató said, however, that the government has announced in the last week that they have managed to reach an agreement with Biogen, which is the end of a very long discussion, but let us always look between the lines as to what we want to achieve, what the man representing Christian values would like to achieve. We want each patient to receive this medicine in the same way as in some Member States of the European Union, including Austria and Germany. The current regulation states that all children under the age of 18 may receive them without a request, without an individual application. Here comes the question mark. Ladies and gentlemen, So far, sick children could only receive it on request, most of whom were rejected. Was that a bad professional reason? Wasn't the money enough? One of them's for sure. What is the difference between the 17-and-a-half-year-old SMA patient and the 18-and-a-half-year-old SMA patient? Nothing. They have the same problem, and it's the same medicine that cures them. What is the difference between Bálintka on the ventilator who is 6 years old and who will not receive this medicine under this Regulation, and what is the difference between Tímea, who has been suffering from SMA for 42 years? Is he outside the periphery? Doesn't he matter? He is feeling well at the moment, but if he does not receive this treatment, because he is not entitled to it under the scope of this Regulation, then nothing else is waiting for him but the worsening of his condition, and unfortunately we must also say in this House that the worsening of the condition will lead to death. We can't condemn anyone in Hungary to death. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] political and financial reasons. I ask my fellow Members to accept this series of articles, to debate it, and the future is that each child under the age of two can receive this Zolgensma treatment. [[The president's ringing again.]] Thank you for listening.
u2019-12-02-206	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group.
u2019-12-02-207	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would rather remain on the basis of the style of the debate that Mr Arató has started, and I think that he too has witnessed a very important and deep debate in the Committee on Welfare, but rather a discussion on this very important subject. Obviously, there is no discussion between us that the treatment of sick children must always be ensured as best we can, as it stands today in medicine, and the number of gates, the opportunity to do so must be opened. [[17.50]] By the way, we abstained because there were already advanced negotiations at the time, and a few days later Minister Miklós Kásler announced the joyful development that the government could provide an additional HUF 34 billion. I think that this is a very important step, not the first step, and not the last step, I would say to my fellow Member, Mr Rig, not the last, but not the first. The other product, referred to by my fellow Member Mr Gergely Arató, may just not have been paying attention to the news, has not yet been registered in Europe, and Minister Kásler has also said that, as soon as this registration takes place, Hungary will also review it and, in its spirit, will take the decision on this other product as well. Until then, you will only be able to make a decision on what is already authorised as a registered drug in Europe. We trust that this step will also help these children to recover, and we will be able to discuss many other similar steps in this House. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-02-208	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Korózs, from the group of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-209	Dear House, Dear fellow Members, The MSZP fraction will support this initiative, and I myself voted in favour at the meeting of the People's Welfare Committee. In my mood, I felt that our fellow Members in Fidesz would have supported this motion in their soul, even though we did not know at that time that the negotiations with the government were in an advanced state. There are two things that must be recorded here, and I stress that we will support this series of articles. One is that on the side of funding, as Mr Arató pointed out, if, in the first step, it can be done to finance it with ad hoc support from the budget, and in the second, there should be post-acceptance funding supported by a social security, and the third thing is the registration process. Everyone, I think, was interested in registering this medicine as quickly as possible and enforcing treatment for as many children as possible to reduce muscle dystrophy. So I stress that the MSZP fraction will support it. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-02-210	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn, representative of the LMP, in a two-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-211	Thank you for the floor. Of course, the Group of the LMP will also support this proposal, and I would like to thank my fellow Member Nacsa very much for the fact that he has now made a really fair and very kind contribution to me, which is what I like now, because I have not experienced so many times. [[Defiance.]] It's hard to add to the previous ones. Actually, I've been told everything by the speakers in front of me. I would very much like this to apply not only to adults under the age of 18, but also to adults, I have met many adults who suffer from this disease. Unfortunately, before in the Committee on Budgets and everywhere, my poor colleague, Lajos Rig, tried to get the support of this medicine accepted several times, and now it finally seems that his persistent and persistent work seems to be getting through. We are glad that we are moving towards a goal and hope that it does not end at the age of 18. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-02-212	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking you, on behalf of the factions, there's someone else who wants to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I give the floor to Mr Gergely Arató, as rapporteur, who wishes to respond to what has been said. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-213	Thank you very much. I would like to thank my fellow Members for their contributions, because it was quite clear that there was basically agreement between the two sides on this matter. I hope that this consensus will remain tomorrow morning, and we will vote for inclusion in the series. I think that this might be a little more appropriate to the spirit of preparing for Christmas, such a peaceful moment in Parliament, there is little of it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-12-02-214	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The MSZP Group has proposed that the National Assembly be quoted in a quotation mark, T/8190 on the repeal of the slave law. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Committee on Enterprise Development. Dear Parliament, First I will give the floor to the author, who will be the author [[For signal:]] Congressman Lajos Korózs, within a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-12-02-215	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Nearly one year is the so-called slave law, which was submitted by the government in November of last year. It's T/8190. This provision and this law would in practice be repealed. My fellow Members, I must put this forward, I do not want to repeat it, and I do not want the slave law to be resumed here, or at least the general debate of it, but it is clear that this law is not necessary, and we have another motion which we will then discuss. Here the surveys show that, unfortunately, the introduction and application of brutal overtime is present in Hungary at the same time, the work in practically such a coherent working order, and the work schedule for four days a week is also present at the same time. At the same time, it seems that in many cases workers are working under very, very many health-damaging working conditions even in violation of legislation. I would like to advance the fact that we also know from surveys that the number of accidents at work has increased radically, and the amount of sick pay has also increased radically in the last year. It cannot be concluded that this is solely due to the fact that more people are working now than before, since the number of accidents at work and the size of sickness payments have increased much more dynamically than employment would have increased. That's one of the things I have to remember. And the other: this slave law is not a family-friendly law. So a lot of workers have been complaining over the last year that they are working almost day and night, and when they finish the shift on Saturday night or night, it's practically only during the Sunday day that they get rest, because they have to go back to work on Sunday night. What we know from the application of the law is that the working time limit that this legislation allows is to be realised for three years, and consequently, people can work here for months with only one day of rest for practically one week, and they have to work almost nights. In addition, I would like to refer to a sociological survey commissioned by the Vasas Trade Union Association in the automotive industry, and I do not think anyone thought of this a year ago because they treated the employee side as a whole, and this survey shows that women working in the automotive industry would be happy to be seen by employers as equal workers. As a result, I do not insist any further, my fellow Members, I would like to ask that this House support our motion. This law, this slave law, neither the Hungarian economy nor the Hungarian workers need anything at all. I would ask my fellow Members to support our motion.
u2019-12-02-216	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, who has made a written statement of her intention to speak. You have the floor. [[18.00]]
u2019-12-02-217	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, I support and support the inclusion of this bill in the series as a rapporteur. The government communication of the slave law was to provide workers with additional work and additional wages. We were still of the opinion that the Hungarian worker should be able to make a living from 40 hours a week; it must be the wages of 40 hours a week, which will ensure a decent living for all those who work decently and diligently in their workplaces. The introduction of this law has not fulfilled the hope it has been given, at least certainly not on the part of the government, but, as my colleague, Mr Korózs, has said, there are certain areas where workers are eviscerated using it. The title of this proposal does not exactly cover the content, since that would not be the way to repeal the slave law. It's actually more of a fantasy name, because in fact, the content of the proposal is the introduction from the labour code of the rules that have created this still outrageous amendment of the law for me. I myself do not want to repeat the debate that took place last year during the same period, but we need to see that this society cannot be physically burdened. Our society is tired, our society is sick, and even after the fear of people and workers in employment is even more dangerous to their own health in the event of illness. We are all here to represent the social class who themselves do not have the ability to assert their own interests, and the workers are the most vulnerable. I ask everyone to support this proposal. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2019-12-02-218	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, DK Group. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-219	Mr President, Dear House, The Democratic Coalition supports this proposal. Look, there are two options, and you have two ways of arguing for this proposal. One of them says they're not going to apply this proposal anyway. Great, then there's no reason to cancel it. It's also said that it won't come into force. The other says that they are applying this proposal, and that the economy really needs it. In this case, however, this proposal is about eviscerating workers, creating relations in the economy that are unsustainable. The abolition is important not only because it otherwise destroys workers in a completely obvious way if they are employed, but also because it maintains a faulty, misguided economic model, an economic model that forces workers to work an inexhaustible amount of hours. So not only is it important from a social point of view, but it is also a fundamental economic interest to abolish this bill.
u2019-12-02-220	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Miklós Szatmáry... sorry, I ask for the understanding of Mr Kristóf Szatmáry, Member, because I have joined him under a different name, Fidesz Group. You have the floor.
u2019-12-02-221	There's a need for that, too. [[Defiance.]] Dear fellow Members, Mr. President. I asked for the floor because we held a debate on this proposal at the meeting of the Committee on Enterprise Development and raised many arguments. I believe that the debate that my fellow Members have said is that this law gives us the opportunity or forces us to do so. I think the debate, although not under very good circumstances, was about a year ago. One year's experience, I dare say, supports our claims that this law does not force us, but gives us an opportunity. Of course, it is possible to argue that this was what the debate in the Committee on Enterprise Development was about, that in a society there is a significant layer of work beyond its own interests, and that, for the sake of the family and its own existence, it may be willing to take on something that its health cannot bear, yet it is an individual decision. We have always argued with it, and we do not consider it appropriate to reopen this debate because we have claimed and claim that this law does not force anyone. Of course, you don't have to accept that at our word. I also quoted Melinda Mészáros, a head of the LIGA Trade Union, at the committee meeting, who specifically said that the members' organisations of the Confederation received requests from certain companies to apply the raised overtime, but this is not typical. The Confederation is not aware of a case where the employee signed an individual written agreement to increase the overtime due to pressure from the employer. So the debate is just between us that it gives us the opportunity or forces us to do so. We continue to say that this is an opportunity, and a year has shown that the proposal is not in vain. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-02-222	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, LMP Group. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-223	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear tableds, Well, I'm one of the authors myself. Obviously, I will not surprise anyone by saying that the Group of the May Other Political Group will support this proposal. In dispute with my fellow Member, I must say that we should look carefully and think in the long term when we talk about this bill. If you look at the so-called big picture, there are two things in this slave law: vulnerability and eviscerated workers. The eviscerated worker is less productive, the eviscerated worker is much easier to leave work, and in the economic situation in which Hungary is currently in place, where the economy is now typically characterised by a labour shortage in all sectors, it is not in the interest of economic operators to allow workers to be eviscerated in this way. Moreover, if we are a little serious about the year of families, the importance of the family and the content of similar government communication panels, then it is clear that a healthy family needs quality time to work together. Now, that is impossible by this law, and I think, in the long term, that this bill will come back very harshly from the point of view of social development or the sustainability of society, beyond being unfair and disproportionate. I think that the Hungarian economy should be so strong that we can support it from 40 hours a week, and the workers can finally support their family members. And I think that if that is the case, as you think it is, then there is no need for this law. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-02-224	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Bence Tordai, Dialogue Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-12-02-225	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Dear pro-government colleagues! If the question is whether the slave law is an opportunity or a compulsion, then I will say that it is not you or you, but it is an opportunity for the employer to force the employee to accept it. So no one should choose this by choice, either by economic coercion or by specific existential coercion. The pressure of the boss at the workplace is what makes the employee sign such a contract amendment. The problem is that you are not working on the labour code to provide workers with security, fair working conditions and fair wages, but all your efforts are to serve the capital, to serve employers, especially the international corporations and the companies of the Oligarchs near Fidesz. That's why the whole world of workers was upset a year ago, and that's why the unity between the opposition parties was formed, by putting aside world-view differences, such a social, social, or, if you will, a left-wing minimum, we said so far and no longer. At this level, Hungarian workers cannot really be vulnerable and eviscerated. The last year is the good summary of your policy, the impression of the anti-worker policy that was actually applied in 2011, and I am glad that it is very easy to define the left-wing alternative that I think the Dialogue is doing in a rather forward-looking way. We say not to increase, but to reduce hours of work, to reduce working hours. While people work around 1800 hours a year in Hungary on average, this is up to 1300-1500 hours on the happier half of Europe. So what we're about to do is not work more, but less, under better conditions and decent pay. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-02-226	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman. [[18.10]]
u2019-12-02-227	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, A little, albeit in a calmer way, but we could hear exactly the same baseless accusations that we heard here in this Chamber a year ago. Then you have painted an apocalyptic picture of the time bomb, the collapse of the economic force field, the bankruptcy of employers, everything in front of us, and it didn't obviously happen because you didn't tell the truth about this law. With regard to the amendment of the Labour Code, my fellow Member, Mr Szatmáry, said what the debate was about. However, I would like to reject you saying that, although obviously no supporting vote has been given to measures that have led to tax reductions and wage increases in recent years, gross average earnings in Hungary have increased by more than 50 percent since 2015. I think it's a very, very important and beautiful number. Far from the end, we do not think that this is enough, we do not think that the end of the wage increase is here, but the average gross wage in Hungary has increased by more than 50 percent over the last four years. It's very important that this goes on, so to tell you that we work for a living and come here with lies like that, I think it's unworthy. Obviously, my fellow Member, Mr Korózs, will say here, as in the TV studio, that he is going to insurge people in one person and instigate rebellion. I don't think that's the way to do politics. I think that's the way to use reason. What you said last year didn't work, those apocalyptic predictions. What we have said and what my fellow Member has said about volunteering and the benefits of amending the Code of Work have been confirmed. It's been a year, that's true. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-02-228	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Korózs, who wishes to reply on behalf of the rapporteur.
u2019-12-02-229	I could settle this with one sentence. If the whole situation is so good, it could be abolished why the hell this law is being enforced. But it's more serious than that, my dear friends. I would like to start by saying that a large part of the workers are afraid to go to sick leave, because next week they won't have to go to work. They work sick on a continuous shift, people on tape because they're worried about their jobs, that's one of the things. The other: these people were not contracted to earn a little more by working 10-12-14 hours a day in a self-exploiting way. These people want to make enough money in eight hours to keep themselves and their families at European level, to provide their children with a decent school, to give them everything they can for the development of the child. And that should be done with eight hours of work. If it doesn't work, then Hungary, my dear friends, doesn't work. Congressman Szatmáry, you know very well that one thing is the real sphere, where, of course, there is continuous exploitation, 10-12 hours of continuous shifts, and the other four days of weekly work. There are cases where dumping work is carried out and the rest is applied. But, please, what about the state administration? Not everyone in the government and ministries is a secretary of state and not everyone is a minister, people and employees work 13-14-15 hours. At Nyufig, when our parliamentary delegation went there, the Director General said that they would be the first to apply the slave law, because otherwise there would be no decisions. They can't pay pensions because so many people have left the government. I therefore believe that this proposal should be supported, because there is no need for this law to be a legitimate basis for such exploitation. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-02-230	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the strengthening of the social security of workers and the enforcement of the requirements of organised labour relations, H/8191. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Committee on Enterprise Development. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Lajos Korózs, in a five-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-231	Dear House, Dear fellow Members, The two cases are also interrelated, so our previous item on the agenda and this is our presentation on strengthening social security for workers and orderly labour relations. I'd like to hold on to that last half sentence a little bit. There is nothing else here, my fellow Members, but that companies, companies that do not work in an orderly way, should not receive domestic subsidies, resources or EU funds. A great deal is involved in orderly labour relations, my fellow Members, above all, in protecting interests and ensuring representation of interests. I would venture that if I had an impact on this right now, I would not allow a third-country worker to be employed by a company that, for example, does not have a collective contract. I predict that the Fundamental Law also guarantees that all Hungarian workers can join an existing organisation on their own, voluntarily, or set up a new organization with their partners. These are trade union rights, among other things, which apply to each employee. This motion concerns, among other things, the fact that it is not possible for a situation such as Suzuki to happen slowly over a year, that hundreds of workers enter the Iron Trade Union, but that they are not allowed to act as trade unions in the field of the plant. In fact, I go further, in the case of Suzuki, there is a bigger infringement, because it is an existing trade union member, a real trade union member, and their representative organisation is the Vasas association, the leader of the Vasas association, not allowed into the factory, on the grounds that they do not have a trade union. From this point forward, I also think that all workers' rights should be guaranteed, and this is also referred to in the Parliamentary resolution proposal, which represents labour rules and employment rules in a consistent manner; that anyone who violates this should have a very serious legal consequence, whether it be a labour protection rule or a labour law rule. For example, after the disgusting conduct of Hankook and my fellow Members, when we went to the administrative body where we asked for information, the employees clearly told them that, laughing at the rules on occupational safety, the fine they could impose on them was a small amount. From now on, by circumventing the rules, they will earn a billionaire profit, and they will laugh at the penalties from month to month, because there is absolutely no consequence of all this, just the fine imposed. From now on, I think, fellow Members, that it is worth supporting this Parliamentary resolution proposal in order to ensure, once and for all, that workers' rights are partly guaranteed, that we can guarantee the right to free organisation, and that we can ensure that social security is strengthened. And for everyone else who breaks these laws, there must be very serious consequences, whether they are financial or criminal, if those rules are being played out. Consequently, I call on my fellow Members to support the inclusion in the series. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-12-02-232	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent representative to speak in a two-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, the Jobbik Group, who has expressed his wish to speak in writing. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-233	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The only reason why this proposal should be supported is because in the Western civilised world, democratic law states, this may be rarely mentioned, but the lowest ratio between human resources and profit is the lowest. In Hungary, there is so much profit for companies compared to what wages are paid, what personal benefits are paid, which actually shows that Hungary remains a paradise for low-wage countries. [[18.20]] And in fact, companies that came to Hungary as multinational companies, or after privatisation, created new magnates, do not do so here all the benefits they give to workers in the Western world. There would not be a need for labour relations organised according to the proposal if it were to be seen that employers take the interests of workers into account to the extent that profits are generated for them, because the profits of companies are made by workers, the working force, the working mind, the worker's soul, the worker's diligence and the employee's self-esteem, because he wants to participate in a good thing, a productive thing. In Hungary, employers take advantage of this, and in Hungary, I must say that in the last 20 years this problem has not improved, but deteriorated compared to the 1990s. So today, the labour law situation and social security of workers in Hungary are much more difficult, despite the rise in average wages than in the same country 20 years ago, and it is indistinguishable that it was a right-wing or left-wing government. The government needs to think about what it can do to ensure that workers' well-established relationships, orderly labour relations and social security are the first in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-12-02-234	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, LMP Group. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-235	Thank you for the opportunity. Mr President, Dear Parliament, This is a very important proposal, thanks to the authors, and indeed, this is in close connection with the previous proposal, and these two proposals, these two initiatives, highlight the essence of the government's economic policy. We are talking about a wild liberal economic policy, the essence of which is that he is trying to enforce a kind of economic policy on a vulnerable, cheap wage worker who is deprived of the rights of self-defense, and he is trying to build an economic policy and an investment policy. It has also been said from my fellow Member, Mrs Andrea Varga-Damm, that the situation of Hungarian workers in this regard has definitely deteriorated, and it is clear that this is the result of the government's policy that has just been presented. And the consequence of this, by the way, is the shocking scale of migration that we can observe, and that which was strengthened after Viktor Orbán's two-thirds victory in 2010, and it is also quite clear that this is also due to the shocking lack of labour, which already threatens to collapse in some sectors. So it is an extremely important step that the Parliament launches legislation that creates the opportunity for workers to enforce their own rights, create and thus participate in the creation of the working conditions, the appreciation that is necessary for the right wage, of course, so that Hungarian workers can plan their own future properly and fairly. This is extremely important, and a huge omission for the Hungarian Parliament, and I call to the attention of my fellow Members that this is a proposal for a resolution, so there is nothing really written in stone here, and very important principles have been laid down by the authors. Here, in practice, if this proposal comes into play, the appropriate debates on these principles can be held, and in practice the government will have the opportunity to draw up the appropriate legislation that the Parliament can then negotiate in detailed debates, in accordance with these principles, within a defined framework. So it's a huge omission. I would very much ask my fellow Members to support the inclusion of this proposal on the subject tomorrow, so that it can launch legislation that will end up with an appreciation for decent workers in Hungary. Thank you.
u2019-12-02-236	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Bence Tordai, Dialogue Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-12-02-237	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In principle, the Parliament is a representative of the people, but as I look at the voting behaviour of the Fidesz KDNP colleagues, at least in the past, it seems to be a capital representation body. So if sometimes the interests of the people were taken into account, if sometimes they represented the interests of the people, the people, the working people, then, for example, opposition laws of this type or proposals for resolutions would be well supported. But you have the political backland of those who are against such a proposal, the multi-enterprises, the large corporations owned by the Oligarchs near Fidesz, who profit from the evisceration and death of people. So it would be worth thinking about what your policy is based on, you want to get votes, because in the long run, it will avenge you, that you are politicalising against the interests of the people, or that you continue to serve the multinationals. This proposal would prevent, among other things, the granting of grants of tens of billions of dollars to companies who consistently violate workers' rights. You have donated an average of HUF 10 million per job in 2018 in individual government decisions, an average of HUF 15 million in the first four months of this year and an average of HUF 19 million in the first nine months, and even a HUF 36 billion grant from Samsung SDI is a 30 million gift per job. Companies who, by the way, regularly violate the laws in force, act unfairly against their employees, and you reward this law-breaking attitude with HUF 10 billion. Congratulations on that.
u2019-12-02-238	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Kristóf Szatmáry, Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-239	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, This debate was also held in the Committee on Enterprise Development and some arguments were made there. I would just like to reject that image very briefly, not necessarily because of me, but because of the hundreds of thousands of people who, by the way, work for multinational companies that they are essentially exploited and eviscerated workers. I am sure there are problems, I do not say, so I am aware of it, but in these large companies established in Hungary, very many workers are satisfied with their work. Perhaps it is worth talking to them too, engineers, family fathers, family mothers found their calculations, so treating them in a uniform way and telling them that they are all victims of this system would be a bit excessive. I also think it would be an exaggeration to say that there would be no orderly labour relations in Hungary. From the very cases that come up, it seems that there are interests, there are strikes, and, obviously, workers, where this is necessary and where it is necessary, raise their voices. Now I would not bring the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, who, I believe, we represent ourselves, where there is a particular problem with these labour relations, I would just like to indicate that the problem is really not swept under the carpet, that there is a labour demand market in Hungary today. So to say that today in Hungary they would be terrified that if there was no place to change jobs, no place to go, it would not be true either. I think it is the responsibility of the government, and the reason why this proposal is not good is because we need to strike a balance, and I think that today there is more or less a balance in Hungary, with some exceptions, with regard to the rights of employers and workers. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-12-02-240	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, DK Group.
u2019-12-02-241	Mr President, Dear House, I'd pick up where Congressman left off, but I don't agree with him. Because, first of all, it is not our job to look for balance, because every time labour laws are introduced, the point is to protect workers because there is no balance in the labour market, it is not like the apple market. Without going into this for a long time now, I usually give longer lectures in college, but the point is that the state's job is to protect the vulnerable party, and the vulnerable party is almost always the employee. So there are working laws to protect the employee from the employer, and not the other way around, because, by the way, if we start from the kind of logic you say we're going to get to exactly where we are now, where the interests of employers are being protected only in fact by the law, essentially not by the workers. And when there really are successes, because, let's say, the Audi strike is always referred to as a success, but this was not born because the legislation is so good, but because, on the one hand, workers are in a position to force by strike what could otherwise be achieved through negotiations if there were orderly labour relations and, on the other hand, because there is a corporate culture that can at least handle it. The congressman says that we should not concern ourselves with Hungarian medium-sized enterprises. Well, let's focus, Congressman, that's where a significant part of the workers work, and it's their protection that is absolutely not guaranteed by today's rules and today's labour relations. [[18.30]] Ladies and gentlemen, I must therefore say that we must decide between two types of models, and I agree with Mr Lóránt Keresztes on this, even if not necessarily with his rating. One model says that there is no need to regulate the labour market, solve it, there is a demand market, and then everyone will find a job. The consequence of this is that there is no man in this labour market today, because whoever can do so goes to a country where he is valued fairly. So I propose that we not follow this path, but follow the path proposed by the authors of the proposal. We support this proposal.
u2019-12-02-242	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group.
u2019-12-02-243	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, We were able to hear from Bence of Turdai again the unrealityful speech that he used on a regular basis. He's the one who asked who represents the people and who's the capital. Congressman, you have never voted for it, and your party has never voted for the tax reduction proposals. [[Gergely Harvester: For the capitalists!]] You want to raise taxes on a regular basis. You did not vote for a personal income tax reduction. You did not vote for a reduction in taxes and contributions to work. You did not vote in favour of small and medium-sized enterprises. Otherwise, you have not voted in favour of the framework for wage increases in the various sectors and their continued growth. You and your allies have never voted for it. Still, we've always stood up for people. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: I hope you don't believe me!]] We stood up for wage increases, we stood up for small and medium-sized enterprises, so if you ask who represents people, those who actually voted for these measures are those who voted for them, so Fidesz-KDNP, and those who talked about tax increases on a regular basis, do not represent the interests of these people, like you. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Dániel Z. Carpathian: Without it, this dispute would have been barren.]]
u2019-12-02-244	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Korózs, who wishes to reply on behalf of the rapporteur.
u2019-12-02-245	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, This parliamentary decision proposal would not have been included if there was a balance between employers and employees in the enforcement of their interests. This OGY proposal for a decision would not have been included if multinational companies had not received billions, tens of billions of dollars in violation of OSH rules, labour rules, and so on. My fellow Members, I believe Andrea Varga-Damm referred to the diversity of human expenditure and profit. My fellow Members, let us be clear. Well, Audi employees wanted nothing more than a salary of at least 50 kilometers from them to the same group of employees in Bratislava. They didn't want anything else! I believe that this proposal has relevance here. Nothing would happen to human resources if profits were shared by capitalists who otherwise produce profits for them. They didn't say we were gonna take it all away, although it can be done anyway, there are countries with economic arrangements, but please, at least a little bit of it. I don't want anyone to refer to the fact that Hungarian workers earn relatively well. Then you have to go to Bratislava and see how much you get for the same job in Bratislava at the Volkswagen Group. We have to go to Poland now, who were behind us about wages a few years ago, and see how much Polish workers make in the same group! I don't mention the Czechs, because the Czechs have always made more money than the Hungarians. I think there will be a balance here if this Parliamentary resolution proposal is adopted by this House and the laws that place the Hungarian workers in these positions, which I have spoken about, are born. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your attention.
u2019-12-02-246	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Group of Dialogue has proposed that the Parliament decide on the publication of the climate crisis T/7021. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Committee for Sustainable Development. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Congressman Bence Tordai, on behalf of the rapporteur, within a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-12-02-247	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Today, the UN is holding its General Assembly on the Climate Crisis, and today it has started discussing in Madrid how we are progressing with commitments that prevent the end of mankind from becoming a climate disaster. The thing is, we're in a really bad place. The commitments so far are insufficient and not even met. So if we continue as we have done so far, instead of roughly surviving, bearable, one-and-a-half-degree warming, by the end of the century, the average temperature will be 3-4 degrees Celsius higher, which means that the earth's climate will collapse completely or at least transform, the Earth's ecosystem, and the vast areas of the Earth will become virtually unfit for human life. For this reason, it is very fortunate that the bill of dialogue is now before the Parliament to announce the climate crisis, which is a law. It is not a proposal for a resolution, it is not a series of soft wishes, but, as Prime Minister Viktor Orbán requested, it contains very specific commitments, or it provides very specific obligations for the government to do what it is necessary to do if it fails to do so, to engage in a violation of the law. So the Dialogue suggests that the Parliament should, above all, declare the climate crisis and oblige the government to develop and implement short, medium and long-term climate protection and climate adaptation measures, which it includes in law, with a rather ambitious deadline. By 31 December of this year, the government should submit the Climate Protection Act if the law is adopted, and it will have until 31 March next year to draw up related government regulations. The Climate Protection Act should serve the following objectives. Hungary should reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55 percent by 2030, reduce its energy consumption by at least 30 percent and obtain at least 35 percent of its energy consumption from renewable energies, and continue to achieve full climate neutrality and net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. It is important to define the content of a climate protection law. The first of these, with which the 6th of our CO2 equivalent emissions can be eliminated in effect, is the closure of lignite and coal plants by 2025 at the latest, of course, with regard to the labour market and social aspects, but not with regard to the profits of Lőrinc Mészáros, who, today, as owner of the Mátra Power Plant, is practically responsible for the 6th of Hungarian CO2 emissions. Furthermore, measures to limit wind energy, taken by the Fidesz Government, should be abolished. The absurd situation is that no wind power plant can be installed more than 12 kilometres from a settlement in Hungary. The bad news is that the largest distance between two settlements in Hungary is 23 km, so there is no such point in the country where wind power plants can be installed. In addition, instead of supporting the spread of solar systems, you will be subject to 27 percent VAT and penalty tax. This law would state how to reclassify it to the 5-percent preferential tax base. Support should also be given to turning the population and local communities from consumers to active energy producers, creating a decentralised energy generation system. There is a need for complex modernisation of domestic housing, which would remedy energy poverty and poor housing conditions in the same way as would reduce unnecessary energy use. The energy efficiency of businesses must also be supported and the green bank, which was previously included in the Fidesz programme, and the green procurement system, which was not previously included in the Fidesz programme, should be established. In all areas of public policy, including, in particular, tax policy, transport policy, water, agriculture, forestry, land use, land and settlement development policies, regulations should be rewritten on the basis of sustainability aspects, and social policy programmes should be established within this Climate Protection Act which sets out climate justice aspects, management of energy poverty, support for the most vulnerable social groups. An institutional guarantee should be provided with the establishment of an independent High Minister for Climate Change, which guarantees that they will not be able to escape these tasks. This is what the Dialogue's proposal is about, and we ask the Parliament's support for it. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-02-248	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Tibor Nunkovics, Jobbik Group, who has expressed his wish to speak in writing. Here you go. [[18.40]]
u2019-12-02-249	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I suppose I won't tell you a big secret if I say that Jobbik will support this proposal and allow me to tell you my experience about the climate strike on Friday, which, unlike Fidesz communication, was not an anti-government protest, but a stand-up, a demonstration in order for both the government and society, as many as possible, to notice that there are problems. And even though Hungary is a small country, we must take the right steps at both political and individual levels of society. For me, it was a great pleasure to see a lot of young people attending this event, and a lot of young people gave their views and heard how enlightened they were on this subject. Unfortunately, much better than many of my fellow Members in Parliament. We need to define, in my opinion, what is rational and what is unreal. Obviously, Hungary has its limits, and our action on this issue is also influenced by the interests of the national economy. I think that what the government has now defined, and not in recent years, but in 2010 and 11 it has defined its own strategy in this regard, is outdated. Since then, many things have happened, and we have had a lot of negative effects too, if I just think that the number of hot sunshine clocks has increased by 12 days a year in Hungary, or that the Hungarian raspberry has disappeared from Hungarian agriculture. So we need to take further steps, and this proposal points to this. I am not saying that it is absolutely necessary to accept this 100%, but then let us sit down and discuss what is acceptable on your part in this proposal. Like I said, we'll support it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-12-02-250	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, DK Group. Here you go. 2018-2022. parliamentary term Budapest, Monday, 2 December 2019 99/2. Number Parliamentary Diary
u2019-12-02-251	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The Democratic Coalition supports the negotiation of this bill and the bill itself. We also know that there are people among the pro-government representatives who believe that this whole climate demonstration and climate thing is solely the work of the Soros-Timmermans-Gyurcsány conspiracy. I would like to say that the Democratic Coalition is a powerful party, but, for example, the UN and the scientific opinion of the world are not yet under our control and we do not have such ambition. So, technically, today, let's just say that, apart from you and Trump, pretty much everyone treats it as a fact that there is climate change, that there is a need to act against it. This proposal can, of course, be subject to criticism, and perhaps this is not an accurate one, which is worth adding to; it is that, of course, this proposal alone does not solve all the problems. We must admit, fellow Members, that we are at the end of the road. The kind of road that has been about the past, say, 200 years, that we have been constantly using more and more natural resources, and otherwise, we have increased at least relative well-being and consumption, this path cannot go on indefinitely. We've known for a long time that we'll come to the end of this, but now we can see where this road ends. The end of this road is a disaster if we don't turn around. Therefore, this bill, which my fellow Members have done, is just a modest first step. A meaningful, comprehensive climate strategy would be needed. It's not like what's in force today, it's a climate strategy that, by the way, looks at every sector, every aspect of life, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, and what to do. This is what young people on the streets, in Hungary and everywhere in the world ask, and it is our own duty to our country and our Earth. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-02-252	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Ms Zita Gurmai, MSZP Group.
u2019-12-02-253	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, For the longest time, the Government of Hungary and Viktor Orbán do not listen to anyone. Nor was it important to have a climate consultation that was almost kept secret, but fortunately, at the last minute, it received a wide range of publicity and was filled out by over 200,000 people. With the proposal we have just submitted, we have the opportunity to take seriously the changes in our environment and indeed declare the climate crisis, as Budapest has done. Thank you for that. Until 2030, we have only a chance to reverse the devastating process of climate change, and we have little time left, so now we have to do everything we can. Hungary will also not be avoided by the consequences of climate change, and this needs to be prepared and attention should be drawn to this. There is a responsibility to be taken, although I have constant doubts about the government's true responsibility for the country. But if this bill is really important to you, you will support it. If they are interested in the future of their families, children, grandchildren, they will support them. Really decide what is more important to you: the party discipline or the environment in which you live. The convenient present or the future, for which they can now take responsibility. We know what we have to do, but the really competent specialists are the ones who tell the facts. And we keep getting signals, seeing what's happening in the world, what's going on in front of our eyes. We can see the extreme changes in the weather, and I think you can see that. The Hungarian government, the representatives of the governing parties, should act only in the establishment of laws and appropriate laws. This, let's say, is usually easy for you, so such a case, this support for the proposal that we have just tabled, obviously should not be an obstacle. I think the protests on Friday are clear, and the young people clearly indicated what was needed, and that's what Fidelitas talked about at his convention. The Hungarian Socialist Party supports the bill.
u2019-12-02-254	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Ferenc Koncz, Fidesz Group.
u2019-12-02-255	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, What Bence Tordai talked about, in my opinion, are, in addition to the fact that they are at least specific, but they are banging relatively open gates, as I believe that Hungary will honour its commitments to 2030, as it has promised. Over the last year, GDP rose by about 5 percent, while greenhouse gas emissions clearly decreased. Of course, it always occurs to me that when we get into a debate, we always get to carbon dioxide, and my fellow Members of the opposition never mention water vapour, for example, which is at least as harmful to warming as carbon dioxide, and we can't really do anything about that. [[Gergely Harvesto: Because it is precipitated and thus falls in the form of rain! Defiance from the opposition.]] The figures therefore show that the government is taking climate policy measures that make a clear contribution to the development of the economy. For my part, I consider climate policy efforts to be the right direction, but I would like to stress that due care should be taken. We have just heard: the coal mine must be closed, the nuclear power plant must not be launched, as we have just heard, even though the nuclear power plant is clearly the only source of energy at present in terms of greenhouse gas emissions that does not increase the risk from this point of view. And I believe that these steps have been initiated by the government, but this should not be carried out irresponsiblely, and I very much hope that the opposition will not use it as a simple propaganda and, in particular, as a press bait, to publish the climate crisis. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-12-02-256	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, LMP Group. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-257	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I began to be glad that so many people spoke, and in previous debates, my fellow members on the previous agenda spoke, and it was as if Congressman Koncz had also started this speech by agreeing on the importance of this debate. At the same time, he ended up with this kind of media fuss and the rest of it, like that. This fits the line that my colleague, Peter Hoppál, in Pécs, unfortunately did today, who successfully posted that the snow is falling, so there is no climate change. [[Defiance from the opposition.]] By the way, it's shocking, it's a good sign of Fidesz communication. At first, they said that climate change was a Bolshevist trick, and they denied the problem at all, and then they started to accept in communication at least that it is a real challenge, but at the same time they are here, within this, only to talk about it, and refuse to engage in substantive debates. [[18.50]] I am pleased that so much attention is given to the green idea, which is extremely important, it is a matter of fate, it is indeed about securing the future of our children. At the same time, I must say that the situation is much, much worse than what is reflected in the atmosphere of this debate and in the thoughts that have been expressed here. For example, it has been said here from one of my previous speakers that climate change must be stopped and reversed. Bad news is you can't do that anymore. So what we can do is reduce the impact and prepare for the effects of climate change, but first we should get to exactly what the effects are, how they will affect our lives. One of my fellow Members mentioned that everyone felt this or that more and more people felt that this was a problem. Indeed, everyone feels it on their skin, I think everyone in this country feels it, sees the extreme weather phenomena that are becoming more frequent, sees the lightning floods, sees that even freshly completed drainage systems cannot handle these huge clouds, and everyone experiences the bugkainvasion. So I think we all feel that there is a huge problem, but we should all get to the point of discussing it. This bill, I repeat, is very strict, especially in terms of deadlines, but I am asking my fellow Members very much to allow this to be put on the agenda. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] so that this debate can start at least along this bill between the walls of the Hungarian Parliament. Thank you.
u2019-12-02-258	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-259	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Of course, our goals are to provide a more livable environment, cleaner drinking water, cleaner air not only for our generation, but also for the generations after us. I hope that is also your goal, and we can agree on that. There are two approaches or two ways: there are colorful horse-zungs without meaningful action, you have chosen this path, and there is meaningful action without colorful horse-zungs, and we have chosen this path, and we will continue to take this path, the path of meaningful action on this subject. [[Dániel Z. Kárpát: You are good at raising these debates!]] As we have done before, we will continue to do so. [[Dániel Z. Kárpát: The Mátra Power Plant is part of the meaningful action?]] You have always missed the debate on this subject. There was a parliamentary debate day here, and you didn't come, you didn't bother to attend. My fellow Member Bencsik was the leader of this debate here from the Fidesz-KDNP faction association, and we have expressed our opinion, and you have not bothered to come here. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-02-260	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Bence of Torda, who wishes to respond on behalf of the authors. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-261	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank my fellow opposition Members for having such a good consensus on this issue, and I believe that all responsible people in Hungary today are part of this consensus. Unfortunately, our fellow Members from Fidesz and KDNP are not part of this consensus because they do not think responsibly. Ferenc Koncz claims that the situation is a good, improved trend. My bad news is that greenhouse gas emissions continue to grow in the 2010s. [[Ferenc Koncz: Where?]] So from the moment we air-condition in Hungary and Viktor Orbán is a climate champion, it is still due to the collapse of the large industry of the '90s, nothing else. If your policy were indeed a meaningful act, as Lőrinc Nacsa said, we would see improved numbers. But no, that is not the case: we are one of the few countries who in Europe are able to achieve deteriorating performance, even in this. The fact is that you are not responsible when there is a debate on this and even when it comes to action, and unfortunately this is because you have no idea what you are talking about, what this situation really is, how serious it is, and what approach it can be approached with. So when you say that the climate policy for economic growth thus serves, then I have bad news: people are longing to optimize economic growth rather than survival. So if you want to continue to serve economic growth by all means, then we will be destroyed, and as long as you do this in America and China, there really is a safe path to mankind's extinction. So we need a complete change of mind: to let go of this crazy cycle of production and consumption and to return to a very moderate, very moderate lifestyle, which is not to waste as much energy and natural resources as possible to produce completely unnecessary things, but to focus on what really makes human life complete and happy. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-02-262	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Group of Dialogue has proposed that the Parliament decide on the implementation of the provisions adopted by the new Metropolitan Assembly in Hungary, H/7960. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Committee for Sustainable Development. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to the representative of the authors, Congressman Bence Tordai, within a five-minute timeframe. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-12-02-263	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, The presentation of the Dialogue is about the measures taken by the Metropolitan Assembly as the first stage of the change of era, taking it nationwide [[Nacsa Lőrinc: BKV?]] many of these can be used in national policy. The fact that the absolute majority of people in Budapest voted for change and said no to Fidesz's repressive-brain-washing policy is a proof that there is hope in this country and that voters are able to separate wheat from slumber. On 13 October, the Budapesters voted to create a free, free and green city and to entrust the opposition parties and Mayor Gergely Karácsony to lead their city in this direction, not only Budapest as a city, but Budapest as the capital of the nation, which, of course, is a very important scene for democratic politics in itself, but also leads the other cities of Hungary and the country as a whole. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Free BKV?]] Among his first decisions, the Republic Party majority of the new Metropolitan Assembly took measures to mitigate the damage caused by the Orbán government during the past nine and a half years. Among these, point 1 is named in this proposal for a decision, the impossibility and persecution of the CEU and Central European University abroad. The Orbán government is proud to mention horse-zungs, while flying huge horse-zungs and balloons about the knowledge-based economy, which some people in the ITM may even think seriously, but in practice this means that Hungary's most prestigious university has been persecuted to Vienna. This is not such a glorious achievement, and Budapest is trying to repair the damage you caused in this area as well. Furthermore, the position of the majority of the Republicans in Budapest and the Orbán government is very different in the approach to the problem of homelessness. You here think it's a crime to be homeless, you're not fighting homelessness, you're fighting the homeless, and you're doing everything you can, you've done everything you can to make your lives more difficult, to criminalize their existence. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Free BKV?]] Compared to this, the Budapest General Assembly set out to prevent homelessness in the spirit of the Zugló model developed and introduced by Gergely Christmas to prevent and manage homelessness [[Nacsa Lawrence:]] and prohibited eviction without accommodation [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Everyone will be homeless!]] ; in a country where tens of thousands of families have been on the streets in nine and a half years of the Orbán government due to eviction, credit crisis and insensitive housing policy. Point 3 is about, as we suggested in the previous item on the agenda, declaring a national climate crisis in order to avoid climate disasters, as Budapest has done, and from now on, sustainability, climate friendship and future friendship must be the standard of all decisions. Point 4 says that we are withdrawing or not applying the slave law. Budapest, in its jurisdiction, prohibited the application of the slave law in the capital's companies, and the Parliament has just discussed the proposal to abolish the slave law. I very much hope that you will follow the good example in Budapest and support the abolition of the slave law in tomorrow's vote. Point 5 is about our natural heritage, if you like KDNP colleagues, protecting the created world, preserving green spaces at urban level, enforcing the principle of trees instead of concrete. We have seen that Fidesz can only imagine the development with huge concrete monsters, cutting down the remaining trees. [[19.00]] We will also root this approach out of Budapest's urban policy and hope that national policy as soon as possible. [[Ferenc Koncz's intervention. Dániel Z. Carpathian: Doesn't it feel good to listen?]] Point 6 is a guarantee that, as in all civilised countries, the government should take a one-third share of public transport financing in addition to local authorities, not only because it is economically sustainable, but also because it is an environmentally sustainable way of making public transport as attractive as possible for people, and in this we count on the government's help. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-02-264	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You can now present your position by group of representatives in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member in a two-minute time frame. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group.
u2019-12-02-265	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, It can be seen during this debate that the representatives of the Fidesz-KDNP have been sufficiently paprika. I'd scrape at least one or two of them by clicking a button. [[Interruption from the benches of the governing parties.]] because there is a very interesting point in this proposal, and this is about preventing homeless people from becoming homeless. If the fellow Members are so courageous, tell us a little bit about how it is that in the year of the families, you managed over a thousand evictions, and more specifically, you started to maintain a system that allowed the executive staff to do so. [[Nacsa to Lawrence.]] My fellow Member may point out, but in a way other than opposition representatives, you have not been present at the illegal events where you could have helped your fellow countrymen. [[Intercom from Jobbik's benches: That's right!]] He didn't do it. You can gesturing here, showing off, tantruming, getting grumpy, press the button! Give an account of why these Hungarian families were allowed to evict. This proposal is worthy of debate and is suitable because it would like to negotiate evictions without accommodation at least in the case of families with children. I would also very much like to discuss this as widely and as widely as possible, even if the programme points announced in Budapest relate essentially to municipal housing and little to the majority of cases involving credit victims, but it can be helped by the announcement of a national moratorium and by the fact that, by the way, the wide-ranging will of the electorate convinces this government to pull itself together and order the eviction moratorium until it can fulfill its own promise that no one will be left on the side of the road. It is possible to achieve results, but this calls for a debate, which must be negotiated. So, if you are so courageous and paprika-like as your fellow government representatives, let us give an account of those evictions. And also that while you are being contacted at your host hour with these, you do not go to illegal events, you do not help these citizens in substance, and you have the nerve to talk about the year of families afterwards. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-12-02-266	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Korózs, MSZP Group.
u2019-12-02-267	Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I would like to advance our support for this motion. I just want to highlight two things from all of this. One is the case of homelessness and the other is the case of CEU. God forbid I tell you, I will forgive everything if the CEU is called back to Budapest. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: I do not... interjections.]] I say this to you because, in addition to the fact that I consider this a crime of the century, the Central European University, which is the country's most successful higher education institution, is also registered abroad. [[Ferenc Koncz: The ELTE is also...]] when no Hungarian higher education institution is registered among the 500 best performing universities, only this [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's not true!]] But that's right, then please, it's a crime against knowledge. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel towards the benches of the governing parties: You also took out the Corvinus... Intercom from the benches of the governing parties: Szeged...]] The other thing is, I'm going to talk about homelessness. I can accept that from you, because I can see that it is hopeless that the government does not have a housing policy; that there is no social housing programme; that government action, if any, on housing, would at least be coordinated. I've been through this, and I don't believe that anymore, and that's not gonna happen as long as you govern. But at least they would apologize to the homeless for the way they violated the law adopted last autumn as a human being, and I don't think it's gonna cost any money. We should stand before the Hungarian society and just say: 'I'm sorry; we apologize for the humiliation of these fellow citizens. We don't want to help you, we don't intend to help you, we don't want to spend a naughty penny on that, but at least I'm sorry. I think that's the minimum you can expect from a pro-government representative. We will support the motion. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-02-268	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to MEP László Hajdu, DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-12-02-269	Mr President, Dear rapporteur, I would like to comment on two subjects. We support it from the Democratic Coalition. I also participated in the committee debate, and I spoke to him, and I support him, but now another side of him. There's a success in the homeless case. The Internet is full of the homeless team being out of the country somewhere. I don't know who sponsored them. Yeah, and then the homeless team got medals, but maybe they're on a professional contract, I don't know. [[Interventions from the benches of opposition parties.]] In any case, it's pretty nasty news. The other one. I would like to address the part of the slave law that has already been mentioned in the previous debate, but it is also included in this proposal. We are not talking about people with equal rights when we think of those employed by the slave law, since they have reduced their freedom from 25 to 20. The removal of this in itself would also be interesting in order to give them their freedom back. The television is full of mayors X, pro-government mayors who now resign, have not taken their leave for 5 years, or haven't taken it out for 3-4 years, they are paid millions because they have not taken their leave of absence, but they also take 5 days of leave from others every year. I think that this alone makes us laugh, that we do not think it is important that it is not a principle. We consider it important not to take five days of freedom from the little man as a matter of principle. We support the proposal. Thank you.
u2019-12-02-270	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, LMP Group.
u2019-12-02-271	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that there has already been an important debate here on the proposal, and that is why I should like to thank the rapporteur. The LMP Group will also support the inclusion in the series. My fellow Members have mentioned very important problems, which are also mentioned in this proposal. I don't want to repeat these. However, I am referring to other issues of a different nature, which are also addressed in this proposal. We have just discussed climate change issues in two proposals. This is extremely important, and I think that we all agree that there are a lot of tasks ahead of us at urban level and at municipal level, but local governments and cities do not have the right resources to do so, so that the government and Parliament also have a responsibility to provide the right central resources for the tasks that can be solved at local level. Organisation of Community transport is an extremely important issue. We are talking about one of the most important tasks of the local government, which, we know very well, does not have its central resources. This is a huge burden for the capital and, by the way, for all rural cities, where this task must be solved themselves. So it is quite clear that we cannot talk about the proper functioning of cities, we cannot talk about sustainability at all if we do not succeed in putting better, much better public transport and predictable funding behind Community transport. In this, however, the government also clearly has a role to play and Parliament has a role. I think it is extremely important that this proposal should be put before the Parliament in this way, and, if we approach the various recommendations listed by Mr Tordai from separate directions, I think that it will be very instructive and that we can manage to steer national legislation and the legal environment in a direction that not only gives the capital, but also gives all rural cities, all rural cities, small towns and other settlements the opportunity to provide for these tasks and needs that are extremely important and that are decisive for all people there. So the LMP supports the inclusion of the proposal in the series. Thank you.
u2019-12-02-272	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-12-02-273	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, First, I reject to the fullest extent the words of Daniel Z. Carpathian, according to which we personally managed any eviction. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You are responsible for him!]] Take that back and apologize to us for saying that we managed evictions. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: No, I'm not asking. You're responsible...]] That's what he said in his speech. I absolutely refuse to do so, and that tone of voice, in which you are attacking us, is unacceptable. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You can be hysterical, but you still are!]] And there's an eviction moratorium, but you didn't realize there was an eviction moratorium. [[Interventions and noise from the benches of opposition parties. The president's ringing the bell. Z. Kárpat Dániel towards the benches of the governing parties: You have to press a normal button...]] I would say to Mr Korós that there are home-building programmes and that the number of users is constantly increasing. If anyone could demand an apology, they would be Hungarian citizens. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: You are responsible for him, not me! I'm not the one who has to explain.]] what you did to this country between 2002 and 2010. [[Intervention from the benches of the governing parties: That's right!]] You never apologized for that. You were part of this government, and you didn't apologize or any government member for destroying this country. [[19.10]] But if a man who holds the word of Lajos Korózs hopes to do so and said that he will forgive everything if the CEU stays in Budapest, then on tomorrow's voting day we will be waiting for his supporting votes for the laws submitted by the government and the Fidesz-KDNP, as I'm sure you know very well, György Soros said literally this a month ago: we will be present in Vienna and Budapest, and we feel that we have a moral obligation to stay in Budapest, because many people have gone to the street to express their solidarity with the university. So George Soros' university is here, if you are a man of your word, you will now support the government's policy. I would like to ask Congressman Bence of Turda where their election promises are in this programme. Where is the free BKV for children? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dániel Z. Carpathian: There will be two evictions before Christmas. Will you come with me to help the family?]]
u2019-12-02-274	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] After Mr Dániel Z. Karpat has finished, I will give the floor to Congressman Bence Tordai, who wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor.
u2019-12-02-275	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I will answer on the merits to Congressman Nacsa, not in the way the government used to respond to opposition. As the government adds to the financing of public transport in Budapest [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Nacsa Lőrinc: Yeah, it's so easy to promise.]] As in every normal country, every responsible government will do, then there will be a budget space for this. [[Ferenc Koncz: I will give you, I will give you money! The president's ringing the bell.]] Moreover, you can see that you are very embarrassed and begin to act as opposition to the opposition, because so far you have established a monolith political regime that you thought you couldn't have a substantial challenger from anywhere and there is no alternative, but a few weeks after the municipal election it became clear to every Hungarian citizen who has been monitoring politics that there is an alternative from here on out. Your alternative is that it's anti-worker. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Anti-worker?]] Anti-worker laws are being introduced, our alternative is to protect workers; unfortunately, only in Budapest and some major cities. [[Ferenc Koncz: Béla Kun defended them too!]] Your alternative is to drive out the best university in Hungary and implement an anti-knowledge education policy in general, and we want to raise the age limit for compulsory education and to devote much more money, attention and care to education. You believe in the denial of climate change, of the climate crisis, and we are, or at least, at least, at ease of the situation and are working on it. You're in the green clearing, we're in the expansion of green surfaces, you're in the cementing, we're in the cracking of concrete. Finally, you are working against public transport and sustainable lifestyles in general, and we are working to ensure that as many people as possible are able to travel effectively, easily, comfortably and in a sustainable way in cities. These are just a few areas, obviously not covering all the important areas of governance, but at many points we have already been able to show why the alternative to the Republican majority is better than that of the Fidesz regime. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-02-276	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the LIII of 1994 on judicial enforcement. T/7701 on the amendment of Act T/7701 on the extension of the eviction moratorium. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I will give the floor to the author in a five-minute time frame. The author is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. There you go. You have the floor.
u2019-12-02-277	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you for the floor. Another debate where brave pro-government politicians are given room; I encourage them to do this, to account for what they have done on the one hand. This proposal and the other related one, which was deputised by the pro-government colleagues during the committee debate, therefore voted against it, have very simple objectives. One is the extension of the eviction moratorium indefinitely, until this government fulfills its own promise, stops lying, faces what it has done, and finally settles. The goal would be not to leave anyone on the side of the road. Compared to this, in the midst of the announced moratorium, opposition representatives who seek to help bring illegal events back to the path of legality were invited to two more eviction events. But, fellow Members, if you are so brave, you will yell at me, press a button and tell me: during the eviction moratorium, how do people get evicted in the storm in Hungary? How can this happen? We're talking about your regime! They can point back between 2002 and 2010, and we agree on a lot of things, and I'm sure we can find a lot of common ground. But for the tenth year, it's been your regnation! It's not even a government anymore, it's a system! The system of national cooperation allowed the number of evictions of over a thousand in the year called the Year of Families. That's why you're responsible. You have developed the legal framework that has made this possible. My proposal in this context would have been to exempt at least the subsistence income, the small pension, the sums from which these unfortunate fates try to stay on their feet, in the case of several debts, from the prohibition of 33 percent or 50 percent of each other's competing enforcement gangs. The fact is, I also could not find a partner in the pro-government benches for this proposal, even though it would have been possible to lend a helping hand to the most difficult people who did not otherwise receive it. The basic promise was that they wouldn't leave anyone on the side of the road. On the other hand, the number of evictions is typically over a thousand a year, we regularly arrive at events where they are already trying to collect reimbursable claims, in a suburban case in Pest, two enforcement gangs, competing with each other, tried to collect the same debt on a family, and there are a lot of credit-damaged people who work at night in a multi-company plant, inventory, try to reorganize their lives as shop sellers, and from this minimal income that they can earn in a very difficult situation, the system of enforcement bans is constantly in place and are burdened with them. The Government of Hungary said that yes, but there was the final repayment, which I greeted, of course, it was an excellent idea for the lucky ones, up from the upper middle class. There was the price barrier, which, although it did not provide any solution, gave air to the claimants for a few years. What kind of claimants? Typically for the lucky ones, up from the upper middle class. In terms of final repayment, the person who had a higher amount in the quotation box or in the family core was able to repay it at a reduced rate. But because, fellow Members, with these people, if they wanted to do justice, they could have done it in one way and I say that they were lying because you knew the solution very well, you did not do it, and you moved towards another kind of solution, it would have been only a relief to forint at the rate of admission. So if someone took credit at 165 forints, why didn't they convert it to Hungarian forints at 165 forints? Why did they throw the market rate at these people, over 256? On what grounds? This difference, this $1,000 billion profit, which may not have been obtained cleanly by the relevant commercial banks, on what basis have you approved yes, my Fidesz and KDNP representatives on the banks' accounts? Why was the looting of Hungarians legalized? Why did the EBRD conclude in 2015 a pact whereby additional burdens would not be imposed on these commercial banks in order to resolve the situation of the victims? It is therefore possible to speak in a loud voice, please, in this debate, to explain in a very large voice, with enormous vehemence, the eviction of thousands of people, the forinting at the market rate rather than the conversion at the time of admission, and why you are making pacts with the Banking Association, the EBRD to the detriment of the injured and the benefit of the financial institutions concerned. Our proposal would like to deal with the financial system of your amazing abuses; to deal with the years when the search for the favors of commercial banks was important, not the return of the daily lives of Hungarian people, because there is only one truth, and the truth cannot be in opposition. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-12-02-278	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. I give the floor to Mr László Szakács, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-279	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, First of all, allow me to welcome the House. I heard Mr Nacsa's overheated comment to my fellow Member. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's another...]] Yeah, it was another one, but it was the same subject. Feel free to take it on. On 9 February 2015, it was your government that signed an agreement with the EBRD in which it agreed to do the following, and it is bound by it; what your government promises to do in the world of money, it will abide by it. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: That's what a socialist says!]] Point 1: banks can't afford a penny of forinting. It's in there, your government has agreed to this, and it hasn't been avoided. Point 2: The Hungarian government, your government, has undertaken not to raise any barriers to the eviction of Hungarian families. Your government has undertaken to give the Banking Federation veto rights to certain social measures, such as the introduction of a private bankruptcy institution. He's what he's become. And your government has undertaken not to make any laws, laws, other instruments of legal control, unless the Union obliges you to do so, which reduces the profitability of banks. [[19.20]] I understand you're not proud of that. They are not so proud that they did not even put it on the government website in Hungarian, only in English, obviously so that fewer people could read it. But for a moment there should be a realization in you, too, when thousands of families are laid out, and you announce the year of families, that this agreement should be terminated in order to do something for the Hungarians, because it is not in the interests of the Hungarians. This is against the interests of the Hungarian people and Hungarian families, and this must be terminated. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-12-02-280	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Bence Tordai, Dialogue Group.
u2019-12-02-281	Thank you for the floor. For many years, Fidesz-KDNP proves that it is on the side of the capital against the people in this case as well. In what year did the banks achieve the record profit in Hungary? In 2018, but only until we get to know the 2019 profits. You, if you will, are a banker's government. You're going to bed for bank interests. You're going to sleep with György Matolcsy's insane ideas, which are really turning the losses of the credit-damaged into central bank profits, and then the public money was trying to lose its public money character, as it turned out to be, with little success. So your actions in dealing with the housing crisis have proved to be completely inadequate. That is why we proposed to think more about how to strengthen the social housing sector, how to build a hundred thousand new social housing units instead of stadiums, how to solve the housing crisis of young people by building, among other things, 25,000 dormitory seats, or even the stagnation of Airbnb, another large company, which boosts rental prices in Budapest and other cities of the country. You are completely less susceptible to this, so that I can be very subtle. Our suspicion is that what my fellow Member Szakács has just said is that Hungarians are being provided to international banking interests and they are not taking any responsibility for the people to whom you are supposed to represent. So it's very important, and thank you very much to Dániel Z. Carpathian for this proposal, and I hope that your better conscience or better conscience [[Defiance.]] you will take it out, and tomorrow you may vote for the inclusion of this motion in the series. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-02-282	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyure, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-283	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Jobbik Movement for Hungary, of course, supports T/7701. a legislative amendment to the law on judicial enforcement in order to extend the eviction moratorium. It is a very good proposal, in our opinion, only for residential property. I remember when the Jobbik Movement for Hungary got into the Parliament in 2010, and on one of the first parliamentary days we were told that a family with children would be put on the street here in Budapest because of foreign exchange loans. Technically, our entire faction went there, and it was shocking to see the practically half - year - old child who was in the crib, even he was unpacked on the street by the executives with a huge police and karma aid. It was very shocking to watch this, where there were three little children, the oldest was 8 or 9 years old, the middle was 3 years old, and the youngest was a few months old, it was pretty awful to see. The Jobbik faction was the one who was there trying to help us as much as we could. It is my fellow Member, Dániel Z. Kárpát, who has been, and has been, constantly submitting proposals for legislation that would have helped these difficult families, most of whom have come into this debt spiral without their own fault, into the trap of foreign exchange crooks. They took on a foreign currency loan, but they all received it in HUF, and as we have seen and proved later that banks also gave forints to customers, yet they had to be repaid in foreign currency, so they had to pay back virtually multiple amounts. In our view, it would be very right for them now to have an eviction moratorium for an indefinite period of time until a final solution is reached. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-02-284	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn, the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-285	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Yeah, I didn't put the microphone on. Well, I'm so stupid. [[Defiance.]] I'm sorry, I sometimes suffer from amnesia. Thank you for the floor. I would like to say that we naturally support this proposal, but I would not have expected this from Dániel Z. Carpathian, but from you, that you simply submit that the eviction moratorium will begin. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It's started!]] And they don't allow people to be put out on the street in the winter, and not just in the winter, but in the summer, they shouldn't put old sick people and children out on the street. You like it, you don't like it, you still do. By the way, foreign currency loans have fallen on people's necks and you have offered solutions, but they have all been partial solutions, and, as my fellow Members have said, they have only benefited a certain layer. Let us think of the taking up of loans of HUF 4 million, not the big HUF 20 million, and then there will be repayments of HUF 8 million and HUF 10 million, which a lot of people cannot afford to say that these loans have gone from a repayment of HUF 30-40,000 to, say, HUF 90,000. In fact, since it was forinted, this has decreased somewhat since then, but most people cannot be blamed for the exchange rate. I don't think people can be left on the side of the road. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-02-286	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to MEP László Hajdu, DK Group.
u2019-12-02-287	Mr President, Dear rapporteur, Anyone who holds a reception hour as a Member of Parliament should not be told of the significance of this proposal, especially the moratorium. Wednesday at 2:00, my inn class starts, 20 hours, 21 hours when it's over. You have to listen to people who cry and tell tragedy. A person who doesn't have an appointment doesn't really identify with that, because he doesn't know what this is about. We have terrible things to listen to. I am in favour of this motion, or am in favour of the Democratic Coalition, because I believe that the extension of the moratorium should not be so seasonally, but should simply be extended permanently, and a solution must be found. An industry has been built that buys the apartment through a channel, and simply doesn't even show up at the family, but the new owner shows up and gives a few days, and people with baseball bats show up to help unpack this family out of the apartment. That's the kind of industry that's been created in the background. We must see this, we cannot silence it; as Members of Parliament, as legislators in this House, if we are aware of this, then yes, we must discuss this, it is our task, and in this matter, whatever has happened over the last decades, because now, for decades, it is our responsibility to help these people. I ask everyone to support and discuss this proposal once, I don't know, even privately, but this is such an important matter that we are talking about, fates that we have. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] It's not just our political responsibility, it's our moral responsibility. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-02-288	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman. [[19.30]]
u2019-12-02-289	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, There is no debate between us about the need to help people in need, in trouble or in need. At the same time, I am reluctant to answer to Mrs Krisztina Hohn, because she just complimented me so nicely, and now I am forced to inform her that there is an eviction moratorium in place right now. An eviction moratorium has been in place since November 15, and this should be taken into account, Congresswoman. However, Mr Cook, allow us not to accept lectures from the socialists on the service of banks. You were the banker's government, you had sex with the banks, you were the government responsible for this level of foreign exchange lending between 2002 and 2010, and you were the government that did nothing to prevent the spread of foreign currency lending, and your offshore-loving central bank president even encouraged foreign currency lending. So we do not accept lectures from you in any way. I would say to Dániel Z. Carpathian that there is an eviction moratorium. Not to us, but to the authorities, if there is an illegal eviction to the contrary. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: I am not only turning to you!]] In such a case, the law also provides for this, for example, when it comes to arbitrary housing bookers. So keep an eye on him so he doesn't accidentally protect offenders. But if it's another case, if it's an actual eviction in any other case, then you should go to the authorities, not tell them in Parliament, but actually talk about it with the authorities. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Don't try to tell me what to talk about.]] Because there's an eviction moratorium in place. And I'd like to ask you what you've said here in your big speech, how much you've agreed with your new allies about what they've done in connection with foreign exchange lending. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: I wanted to talk to you, but you're not fit!]] I push buttons every time. You tell me to press the button, I always press the button. Obviously this is the new fashion in Jobbik, I can't help it, Ferenc Gyurcsány will surely pay nicely. Thank you.
u2019-12-02-290	Thank you very much, Congressman. My fellow Members, I think I can also expect the Member to respond now when I give the floor and, if he wishes, to respond to what has been said. You have the floor.
u2019-12-02-291	Mr President, Dear House, First of all, thank you all for your support. It has not always been possible for honest opposition representatives to agree on the importance of solving a problem. Obviously, in how we can argue for a very long time, but it is indeed a moral, non-legislative issue in the first place. My fellow Member Nacsa, I know very well that there are a lot of people sitting in your benches who agree with this proposal. They tell me that in the hallway when we're not talking in front of a microphone and not in front of cameras. They are not ashamed that they too are particularly sorry for these brutal, harsh human fates. I am not angry with you either because, for the sake of these people, I will always look for common paths, and whatever I think you have said, I will not go in that direction, because this is not about barcodes, my fellow Member, but about real human lives. You have declared a moratorium, and we have only been alerted this week to two illegal evictions, not arbitrary householders, my fellow Member. Everyone turns to the authorities, the victims turn to the authorities. I personally wish you to accompany us to consider such an event, and I believe that your world vision and vision will then be transformed. Help us do this because we want to protect victims, families. We could argue a lot about the fact that there was a government in Hungary that would have signed a self-sacrifice pact as big as the EBRD pact. It wasn't, by the way. So you were the most self-reliant on this. No previous government has ever signed anything like it, except you. You'll take care of that. It's none of my business. My job is to represent these people through fire and water against the industrialized system that has been contracted for their looting. We will be there, not only with representatives of opposition parties, but with thousands of activists, if necessary, and we will stop all similar drives. At the same time, we ask for assistance from all sober, reasonable fellow Members, even in spite of the faction discipline. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-12-02-292	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The LMP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the non-delaying tasks arising from the emergency of climate change, H/7380. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Committee for Sustainable Development. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to the rapporteur in a five-minute time frame, who is Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Member of the LMP faction leader. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2019-12-02-293	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, This is the third time this afternoon, this evening, that we have dealt with climate change issues. This time, I will introduce a proposal which I am very pleased to have been registered by all opposition parties, so each opposition party has given one party member to this proposal and more opposition representatives. We are talking about the need for immediate action on climate change, which, I believe, could never be a party policy issue. However, I thought it important to say that at least on the opposition side there is consensus that this issue should be discussed here at the Parliament level. There's no way I'd like to turn this case into a party policy. I very much hope that my pro-government fellow Member will also speak in this debate, because there is a pro-government Member sitting here who understands and feels the weight of these problems and I hope that he will rise to speak. When we are talking about the challenges of climate change, we should go to the point of reaching out in a debate about what we are thinking under such challenges, what specific challenges we are facing, what are the serious effects that we are likely to have and which we can talk about reducing. It is very important that there is a debate on not only conceptual issues, but also content issues, where appropriate, between the walls of the Parliament, what we can achieve, what challenges are, how much time we have, and what level of action is needed. I think, quite clearly, that once again, it cannot be an ideological approach, that the kind of approach, the kind of economic policy, the pursuit of profits that led us here, we cannot continue. So we need a huge change of perspective, a huge turnaround in economic policy and social policy, in order to achieve results at all. This proposal lays down basic principles, sets objectives, seeks to draw attention to challenges, to the severity of challenges, and also to put forward concrete measures. These specific measures are obviously unlikely to be presented in five minutes, but I would like to mention the most important ones. These also apply to international commitments, different climate protection objectives, commitments, and provide instructions and guidance for all those who represent Hungary in international politics in connection with Hungary's commitment. I believe that there is no debate in wanting to combat the effects of climate change, climate change, that can be imagined not at national level or even at European Union level, but rather through a kind of global change of perspective, global cooperation and joint action. Our proposal also addresses the announcement of the climate crisis. At the same time, it is extremely important to fill it with real measures. Accordingly, we would like to propose a climate protection law or a debate on this. It is very important that we also talk about specifics. This debate always stops at the level of the principles, but I would like to give two concrete cases, two specific examples, which might bring me a little closer to supporting this proposal tomorrow by my fellow Members with Fidesz and KDNP. At the beginning of July, the country was swept by terrible extra storms affecting several settlements. Not only at this time, but at this time we have witnessed this specifically. A settlement in Somogy County, Lakocsa, was also hit by such a shocking storm when a super cell was ravaged. A few days later, I went to this settlement, and I wouldn't have believed this destruction if I had just relied on the news, I had to see it in person. Old people in the settlement also said that they had never seen anything like it. And the leaders of this small settlement, this otherwise poor settlement, were in a situation where they did not know what to do, what to do, what to ask for immediate assistance to those who had lost their housing. It was quite shocking to see that even insurance companies did not react quickly enough to this situation. So it is extremely important that we develop a legislative environment to prepare these settlements for extreme weather situations, which are unfortunately becoming increasingly common, and to give them an opportunity to reach out, what source, what professional help. This is also extremely important in this respect. Another issue: the government has also spoken about the issue of migration today. Maybe this will shed some light on the importance of talking about this case. We ourselves admit that effective action against the global migration crisis is a matter of fate for all of us, a matter of fate for Europe and fate for all Hungarians. But the most important thing is that we really want to face this situation and act to speak frankly about the causes of migration and to take real action to address these causes. It is obvious, and I do not think that even you argue that climate change is one of the most important causes. In this respect, I believe that action must be taken at national level and, in principle, at international level using such powers of the Hungarian Government, with a series of measures that can help us in this respect. Thank you very much. [[19.40]]
u2019-12-02-294	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent representative to speak in a two-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Tibor Nunkovics of the Jobbik Group, who has made a written statement of his intention to speak. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-295	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I can say the same thing as in the Dialogue proposal, since similar arguments have also been made to this proposal, of which I am one of its authors. I would like to ask my fellow pro-government Members to allow this proposal to be passed during the vote, and this should also be a proposal that we can finally start to debate. After all, it is clear that what the governing parties have set out to do, and I said this in my previous speech, is outdated and should be updated. The trends in climate change are visible, and many experts in the scientific world have acknowledged that these earlier strategic commitments would need to be updated. I think that there are no goals, no wordings that would be unattainable to Hungary. I still think it is very important to draw the attention of individuals, of society, to what they can do in their environment in order to combat climate change. What policy, major policy, can do to set and achieve these objectives is very important. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-12-02-296	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Ms Zita Gurmai, MSZP Group.
u2019-12-02-297	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, This June, László Palkovics, Minister of Innovation and Technology at the foundation of a 100 megawatt solar power plant, said that effective action against climate change can only be effective with global co-operation, and said that Hungary intends to be one of those states that will have the opportunity to produce energy carbon neutral by 2050. Only four days later, on 21 June Prime Minister Viktor Orbán vetoed the climate plan aimed at the carbon neutrality of the European Union in 2050 in the Council of Europe; the climate plan for which Hungary was very active at policy and professional level in the preparation of nearly one year. Thank you for that. We cannot, therefore, say that Brussels has decided behind our backs and intends to impose on us measures that have not been agreed. Of course, we could get used to the fact that, at one moment, the government propaganda is expressing a wonderful future, that it is important for the Government of Hungary to protect the environment and fight against climate change, and at the next moment, Fidesz circles are talking about climate change and environmental protection as a serialist fiction of the liberal left. The attitude of the Prime Minister, the government and the Fidesz on climate change is completely incomprehensible once in a while. I think we should vote for the facts. Climate change, its effects, extreme temperature data are facts. The expected consequences and effects of climate change are perhaps the only area where there really should be full agreement. Thank you to Group Leader Lóránt Keresztes, who also talked about this, that this should be a matter over parties. Does the current government really not see what's going on in the world? Climate change is not a left-wing or serial fiction. Climate change and its negative effects affect people, everyone, without political affiliation. And that's true even if the government tries to deny the facts. The Government of Hungary must immediately make system-wide changes that can slow down climate change, which cannot be stopped by fences. The Hungarian Socialist Party supports it. Thank you very much for the extra seconds.
u2019-12-02-298	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to MEP László Hajdu, DK Group.
u2019-12-02-299	Mr President, Dear rapporteur, There seems to be no problem with sustainability in this country. The House has a Committee for Sustainable Development, a National Sustainable Development Framework Strategy, a National Sustainable Development Council, an Authority for National Resources. Basically, everything's fine on paper. So what's the problem? I think, on the one hand, there is a problem with the fact that we cannot find in the budget the resources that contain these otherwise noble goals and internationally standard goals, and on the other hand we cannot find action, government or sector. The third one, most importantly, is the political will, I think, is the biggest problem. On the side of the Democratic Coalition, we support this proposal, as we do all that concerns environmental protection. But I would like to mention here that I may have so much time to say that when scientific research is being attacked like the Academy or the CEU that has just been said, then very, very much environmental, nature conservation, the ecological view of the built environment on the part of politics, I do not think it is possible. For our part, we support it, on behalf of the Democratic Coalition, and we hope that we can discuss this issue here, before the plenum of Parliament. Thank you. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2019-12-02-300	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Bence Tordai, Dialogue Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-12-02-301	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, We have already talked a lot about the climate crisis, the climate crisis, the ecological crisis this evening, so I would like to draw attention to just a few specifics, some common mistakes or some determined lies, and here I am thinking primarily of our fellow Members from Fidesz-KDNP. One of them is how effective the government's action is, the famous action that does not arise in the pulsating of the horse-zung. Let's look at the specific numbers. On the side of ksh.hu, greenhouse gas emissions, total CO2 in 2013 43 780, in 2017, this is the last data, 49 646 thousand tonnes. And then you say that Hungary is a climate champion. If we continue with these trends, I don't think I have to explain where we're going. But the same misconception or false myth is that let's say the nuclear power plant is a sustainable thing, something that can help us fight climate change. The fact is that the nuclear power plant, taking into account its full life span, its construction, its demolition and all the emissions involved, is almost as bad as running power plants with gas, i.e. fossil fuel. So please at least take this argument out of your argument set. The thing is, the more we get into the specifics and the details, the more your argument becomes incomplete, and at the end, they're standing bare-ass with no arguments, and they can only soften what their Habony propaganda machine requires you to do. And they have nothing to say, so maybe we should start thinking that maybe you don't represent the right position. It is not too late to join this proposal, which I thank the LMP, and we will, of course, support it.
u2019-12-02-302	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask my fellow Members if someone else would like to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I will ask Congressman László Keresztes to answer. [[For signal:]] Yes, you have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-12-02-303	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President, and thank you very much to my fellow Members for being positive on this issue and for making supporting contributions. Otherwise, the fact that there is an opposition consensus on this issue, I would like to underline again, not a party political issue. I would add that this is an even stronger consensus, because in the European Parliament the MEPs of Fidesz voted in favour of the announcement of the climate crisis and the announcement of an environmental emergency. I think that at least they could learn from their European representatives in this regard, and at least tomorrow they could vote in favour of the inclusion of the proposal in the series of proposals. However, I do not want to go along with some of the arguments made in today's debate, and I would also like to refer back to Mr Koncz's thoughts on nuclear energy; in part, my fellow Member from Torda has already referred to it. Perhaps you know, my fellow Member, I am from Pécs, and not so long ago the Rosatom spoke in Pécs about nuclear energy having something to do with sustainability. [[19.50]] It is symbolic that they were talking about it in Pécs, because we know that there was previously uranium mining activity in Pécs, and anyone who knows this area knows exactly what brutal environmental destruction uranium mining has brought about, an environmental destruction that can never be repaired. So far, 30 billion forints of public money have been spent by those responsible for recultivation, but this is a task that will never end, so it is invaluable what economic, environmental and thus social damage uranium mining has caused. The other, and my fellow Member from Turda, pointed out that the final disposal of nuclear waste has not been resolved anywhere in the world, either the technology, the choice of location or the financing issue have not been resolved. So, in such a context, in the context of climate change, the fact that nuclear power will be able to provide a solution is an obvious lie. I think it has been a step forward that we have been able to debate this issue on some of the proposals today, but the most important thing would be that there really should be substantive debates in the Parliament. I agree with my fellow Member Hajdu that the most important thing here is that political will and action are lacking on the part of the governing party. But I would also be pleased if we could at least get to the point where a common denominator could be established, what we think about these problems, and then action might take place. Thank you very much for your support.
u2019-12-02-304	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The debate on the Commission's report on the implementation of the 2018 single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority follows. T/6265 submitted by the Committee on Budgets The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Zsolt Szabó, on behalf of the authors, whether he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate or at a later stage of the debate. [[Zsolt Szabó: Later!]] Yes, the Member indicates that he intends to speak at a later stage in the debate. Dear Parliament, The representative of the Government indicated that he did not wish to present a position during the debate. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I'll ask if anyone would like to take this opportunity. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. I would like to ask the Member that he wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[Zsolt Szabó: Is this the end?]] That's the end, Congressman. So, are you planning on giving us a point of view? [[Zsolt Szabó: Yes.]] Yes, the floor is yours.
u2019-12-02-305	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, The debate on the Commission's report before us has now taken place. Given that no amendments or other comments have been made on the Commission's report, I therefore call on this House to support the Commission's report during the vote. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-02-306	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Of course, I would like to announce that the debate is closed. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The debate on the Commission's report on the single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority for 2020. T/7839 submitted by the Committee on Budgets The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Zsolt Szabó, on behalf of the authors, to speak at this stage of the debate. [[Zsolt Szabó: No.]] The Member indicates that he intends to speak at a later stage in the debate. Dear Parliament, The representative of the Government indicated that he did not wish to present a position during the debate. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I'm asking if someone would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Zsolt Szabó if he would like to speak. [[Zsolt Szabó: Yes.]] Yes, you have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-12-02-307	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, As in the previous presentation, my request is that the report prepared by the Committee on Budgets be supported and adopted by the vote of this House. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-02-308	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that Szilárd Németh is State Secretary... [[István Szilárd Németh enters the Chamber.]] The Secretary of State has arrived. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of individual laws in relation to defence issues and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. Government referral T/8029. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-309	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 28 November 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/8029 on the amendment of certain laws in relation to defence issues. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. It adopted it by 26 votes in favour, 6 votes in favour and 3 votes in favour. A specific debate on this proposal did not arise at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, as it seems clear to everyone that it contains a lot of provisions that can lead to positive changes in defence and defence developments. The proposal contributes to Hungary's well-prepared, strong guard and army, which can also become a major factor in the region. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of this, in view of the lack of debate in the Commission, I ask this House to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-02-310	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr István Németh Szilárd, Minister of State, whether he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate or at a later stage of the debate. [[István Szilárd Németh: Thank you very much, no.]] Mr Secretary of State, Deputy Minister, points out that he wishes to speak at a later stage in the debate. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Defence and Police Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik Group.
u2019-12-02-311	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I only thought that I would comment on the opportunity to open up in plenary after the Commission's debate, because there are a lot of elements of this law, yes, which adequately supports the fact that Hungary, for example, has tasks in relation to cyber security. But there are a lot of provisions in this legislative package in which the government actually wants Hungary to become a defence field, and fortunately we are in a time of peace, and there is certainly no emergency or emergency outside the borders of Hungary that would justify the need for defence to carry out its tasks widely in the country in a way that is currently included in the bill. He wants to install a defence rapporteur for jobs, set up a group of defence experts for companies. In practice, he wants to create an economic mobilization, so that Hungary does not need this at all between our relations today. Potential difficulties due to immigration do not justify this. We believe that the defence government and the government have gone into a field that is absolutely complete! It's a very dangerous road. I said in my speech in plenary that I have very bad feelings about this law. [[20.00]] I hope that my bad feelings will never work because it is likely that the pro-government representatives will vote in favour of this legislative package, but I believe that in Hungary, Hungarians do not need to see soldiers at every step of the way, and they need to know that if they do not see the everyday activities of defence, but in the event of a crisis, the Hungarian army stands behind the Hungarian people, in order to protect the Hungarian people. This bill doesn't help that. This is most likely part or chapter of the government's negotiation process. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] And I cannot accept, in particular, what is another bill, is that 8031, which must be linked to the fact that one leg of the deal was likely to be given protection of the country, plus it can effectively turn the country into a warfield, but on the other side it is very wrong to give up the management of defence property, to give up ownership rights, which is even more likely to jeopardise the fact that the goal of the Hungarian Defence Office, the Hungarian defence, is indeed good for applying it, and not for defence of power games. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-12-02-312	Good evening. We will continue our work by announcing that no one has asked for a two-minute speech. That's also commendable because it can't be. [[Defiance.]] I would like to ask if someone would like to take the opportunity to speak at the remaining time frame. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. I'll ask the author, Mr. Secretary of State, if you'd like to reflect. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-313	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Government maintains its position in the general debate and supports the summarised amendment. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-02-314	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place at our later meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the proposed amendment of certain laws relating to the reduction of young people's smoking and the protection of non-smokers and the discussion of the summary amendment follow. MEPs János Lázár, Zsolt Nyitrai, Sándor Hadházy and László B. Nagy submitted by Fidesz T/656. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a maximum period of 15 minutes. Congressman Csaba Nagy, the rapporteur of the committee, has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-315	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 28 November 2019 the Legislative Committee discussed T/6576 amending certain laws relating to the control of smoking of minors and the protection of non-smokers. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 24 votes in favour, 7 against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Experience in recent years has fundamentally demonstrated the correct idea that new and more stringent measures should be taken to protect non-smokers and to reduce underage smoking, in respect of which the T/6576 in front of you is the T/6576. A number of forward-looking provisions are included in the bill on the amendment of certain laws relating to the reduction of smoking by minors and the protection of non-smokers. One of the more stringent provisions of the draft law is that additional products of the new categories of tobacco products and e-cigarettes can only be sold in all forms and only in tobacco shops, with appropriate controls. In addition, the provisions on fines are clearly tightened, and in more cases than before, fines will be applied in the event of a mandatory infringement. Dear House, The purpose of the bill before you is to reduce the black trade in tobacco products and to protect minors, which is clearly to be supported, so I ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-12-02-316	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'm going to ask you who you'd like to speak to. [[For signal:]] Mr. Big Congressman B, please.
u2019-12-02-317	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Before you, the general debate on the package of laws amending certain laws relating to the reduction of smoking by minors and the protection of non-smokers was conducted by Parliament before the summer break. Since then, the bill has been passed on to the European Commission, and the detailed discussion phase and the procedure of the Legislative Committee have been completed. In the so-called notification procedure before the European Commission, no EU Member State has commented, and the Commission has made only a few technical proposals, which have, of course, been considered by the authors. The Committee on Economic Affairs and the Legislative Committee also made a number of proposals of a more precise nature compared to the version submitted, with which the rapporteur agreed, so that the draft could be presented to you in the form of a single proposal. The substance of the package of laws has not changed after the time compared to the submission. One of the regulatory directions originally set was to review the law called the Trafik Law in order to address the change needs arising from the practical experience of more than six years since its entry into force. In doing so, the authors did indeed have a broad consultation, not only with the government, with pro-government representatives, but also with retailers, and with the whole tobacco industry. I would also like to thank you here for the amendment made by the two opposition fellow Members who took the time to criticize the proposal, but made a substantive proposal. Despite all the contrary rumors, we have also considered these and, for example, the transparency of the tramps, so that they can be seen from the street to the tramps, we accept the amendment of the legislation in this regard by introducing a timely passage through the law in December 2021. This date is December 2021, because then all tobacco products will become uniform packaging in the Hungarian regulations, as a result of which the advertising value of different tobacco products will cease, i.e. they will be lost. Returning to the main issues of regulation, while, of course, there was a need for a comprehensive, practical overview of the bill, the authors also wish to tighten up the legislation in force on a number of points. Of course, everything cannot be covered in today's debate, but I would like to highlight some important issues that are important in terms of reducing smoking and limiting the market power of tobacco companies or increasing tax revenues. One of these is to reduce advertising opportunities. Although tobacco products can already be advertised only within tobacco stores, to a very limited extent, some companies have achieved indirect advertising through their various tobacco products in order to promote tobacco brands under that name. The Traffic Act is much more stringent in the future on such issues and extends the ban on advertising to all tobacco-related products in order to close the loopholes. On the other hand, we will continue to reduce the availability of tobacco and tobacco products. We can do this bravely, because this amendment will not be introduced suddenly, but in its process, while the black market is fortunately stagnating in Hungary, so I think it is time to introduce these restrictions. Thirdly, we are tightening up the rules on traffickers. These rules make it clear what irregularities have been committed, possibly crimes, which are very serious or are repeated. In the future, regulation will allow for the cases in which traffickers immediately lose their concession rights and which cases may be considered by the authority as to what punishment they apply. [[20.10]] Yet, perhaps one of the most exciting questions is what to do with new types of tobacco products or nicotine substitutes that have been on the market in recent years. The current amendment to the Traffic Act is a cautious approach to this issue. On the one hand, these products and all their accessories will be available in the future only in trams in Hungary. Caution is certainly justified, and tightening up is certainly justified, as we have been hearing it every day recently and in the press, that in the United States of America and Britain there have been various cases of sickness, diseases and deaths associated with the use of e-cigarettes. At the same time, by amending the legislation, we do not exclude the possibility that, if, with scientific justification, producers can prove that, for example, new types of tobacco are actually less harmful, it can only be described within the tobacco store and only by adult consumers. The summarised amendment also created the possibility and a substantial tightening of the possibility that all tobacco products, nicotine substitutes for tobacco, would indeed be subject to excise duty in the future. So we close the loopholes to any product that may even seem insignificant today, such as nicotine-containing pillows or chewing tobacco, which, unfortunately, are becoming increasingly popular among the young generation and also in Western Europe. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In my view, in the legislative process that started this summer, everyone really had the opportunity and had the time to make and make a substantive proposal. I believe that, on this basis, there is a bill on your table that takes into account most aspects, and I would very much like to suggest to you that the government's unbroken efforts since 2010 to reduce smoking and to protect minors should be supported by all of you. Thank you very much for listening, and thank you very much for supporting this proposal. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-02-318	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform you, Honourable Parliament, that the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur. No two-minute comments are possible. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. Time frame distribution: Fidesz 27 minutes, KDNP 13 minutes, Jobbik 10 minutes, MSZP 9, DK 6 minutes, LMP 6, Dialogue 6, Independent 3 minutes. Speakers asking for a normal word are next. Congressman György Szi-Lágyi, first representative of Jobbik, please.
u2019-12-02-319	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, We agree with the author on one or two things, such as the fact that since 2010, they have actually dealt with the tramps. Since 2010, we have witnessed a pinpoint economic machine in this country, with no other purpose than to rob this country, rob this country, put their own oligarchs and friends in the position. The very first stop of this was perhaps everyone remembers the so-called traffutty, when you completely absorbed an economic segment and gave it to your own friends. This is because the general debate was a long time ago in July when you presented this bill, and since then you have not realized that there is a problem with the title, because it is about amending certain laws relating to the reduction of young people's smoking and the protection of non-smokers. This bill has everything at the moment, but the things in the title do not exist. These are a lot of words, nothing in your legislative proposal at the moment but to give a new segment to friends, friends, relatives, and this is the exclusive right to sell e-cigarettes and e-cigarettes. That's what this bill is about right now, nothing else. It's about the continuation of the traffutty, about making it as good as possible for your buddies, and how much money they can make out of it. If it were about health protection and the like, then, as the author said, Jobbik's proposal on health protection would have been accepted, namely health and life protection for those working in trades, since in recent times we have seen that the Trafiks have been fond of being targeted at various robberies, precisely because the street is not accessible to the business premises, and so different criminals see easy money for the robbery of the Trafiks. Unfortunately, this is a threat to the workers there, so once again, workers are at risk. Remember, in the case of Kaposvár, when a 21-year-old saleswoman was stabbed in the chest and hip by a robber, her life was one by one; remember the cases in Pécs, where there was a criminal who robbed four trucks in a row, or we could say the Práter Street case, where also after a robbery, citizens had to stop and restrain this man. So I think that if you really wanted to provide safety to the people working in the tobacco industry, you would have accepted our amendment, since you would have protected your health. Think about it: 8-10 hours each employee works in a trapper, an artificial light, because the light can't get into these business premises, it doesn't meet natural light during its working time. It's a longer-term job, I think, could be quite a health hazard. And you said that we would come back to this in 2021, because when EU regulations change, and so on. Congressman, why do we have to recreate this law? This was supposed to be our chance to change it now. It could have been put into effect or adopted this amendment, but there was only one very big problem with this amendment. And I really understand it from you, because, given your work for the past nine years, we have experienced this and we have not taken that into account. So there was only one very big problem with this amendment: Jobbik submitted it. An opposition party has submitted proposals from opposition parties, even if it is in the interests of Hungary and the Hungarian people. Even if it had made this law better, even if it was about health and life protection, because a opposition party's amendment proposal was not accepted by Fidesz-KDNP. I believe that the Jobbik Movement for Hungary cannot contribute to the continuation of Trafikkuty, nor can it contribute to the country's robbing, which is why we will not support this bill. But I'm sure you'll vote for it. As soon as this country has the opportunity to work with a different leadership, of course this is also their trade-off bill, which, once again, has been given a very nice title, but is not about that, it will also be reviewed, and perhaps we will regulate it in a much better and much more normal way, not with your friends, relatives, friends, relatives and friends of Viktor Orbán, but in a way that will benefit Hungary. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik. István Szilárd Németh: Oh!]]
u2019-12-02-320	Thank you very much. Congressman László Hajdu, DK!
u2019-12-02-321	Mr President, Dear tableds, Colleagues! It is about tightening up the law, tightening up the smoking of minors, but at the same time tightening up would be, I think, if the government had put it in, and the administrative units, where there are trade shops like this, national trade shops, would have agreed on the practices of those with the local administration. I see the next problem. In the retail sector, the national tobacco store is a specialty, which is almost impossible that it still exists in Europe. If the florist next to him, the baker and the liquor store, or any of them, are in irregular trade, and even if not irregular, the local authority can check the activity there. Except for the national tobacco store. You can go shopping there, but you can't check it. [[20.20]] So what's unbelievable is that in my constituency, it's only XV. 39 of these national tobacco stores are in the district area. By the way, the common language calls this NER tavern, so that is their name, NER tavern, and then let me know, that's what they call it in Budapest, because there are more. Its opening hours must be agreed with the local administration and there is an authorised opening hours, also in view of the population living there, but here it is open for 0-24 hours, who is more efficient or wants to make more money, and they are practically not playing the role of the tobacco store, but the role of bottle drink sales, and when it comes to protecting young people, young people are taking away the bottled drink, and they are probably not smoking cigarettes as well as smoking cigarettes properly and in size, but it works as a pub, and young people are dating in the park, and the only bottled drink shop is the national tobacco store, so these national tobacco shops are actually working as pubs. The local notary doesn't believe the public can't do anything about it. The police can really do something about it, if they dare to do anything about it, the vigilantes can't do anything about it. We don't know who the authority is who controls these shops, especially where they're in the city centers in traffic, even tourist traffic, and basically even at ten o'clock in the evening, and some of them are sitting around, even the suspicious-looking people. So that doesn't mean tightening it up, it would mean tightening it up if they put some standards, some morals, into this trade. It's not a moral trade, it's against the others, the liquor store across the street, who has strict rules, but it's a completely humiliating retail store if it's a retail store. So it doesn't mean tightening up, and the fact that the local administration, or the government office or the notary, currently, the notary's jurisdiction has nothing to do with such a trade is almost unbelievable. The other is the question of accessibility, which I would like to mention. Firstly, how the concession was obtained, I will join Mr Szilágyi. So it was an interesting thing who got three or four concessions and when he came into this store to work, and how his employees were employed there. No one checks that they are declared workers, they are on minimum wage, how many hours they work, they are not known, although all other retailers are able to control, there is a right, there is no right to this form of trade. Here, too, much has been said, which my fellow Member has even confirmed, which has faithfully returned the bill. I think that if this had come in as a government proposal and not as an individual motion, as a separate bill or as a legislative proposal, it would have been possible to talk about submitting an amendment. There's no point in adding it, there's no democratic coalition, but we can't support this law in this form. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-02-322	Thank you very much. Congressman Lajos Rig, Jobbik!
u2019-12-02-323	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, There was a lot going on here, but not the essence of what this law is about. Of course, it can be agreed that in order to protect minors and non-smokers, we are going to make a law or bill that serves the purpose of dissuading these young people from the possibility that they will ever touch cigarettes. I say I'm a smoker, but that's not what this is about. You know very well, in 2013, when the first applications were launched, they were issued for the purpose of obtaining a concession for family businesses that have been operating tobacco shops or tobacco shops for years or decades. The tender awards were published, and the big fall, so to speak, was awarded to people who couldn't even see a tobacco store from the inside, but they might not have seen it from the outside. At that time, Orbán, on 3 May 2013, published an article in the Magyar Nemzet, Kossuth Radio, in a Friday's, 180-minute broadcast, made the following statement:. It cannot be allowed to lose their livelihood by those who have worked in the main job but have not won a tobacco application. That's what Viktor Orbán said. He has guaranteed family businesses that have been engaged in business and hundreds of people for decades. He's guaranteed these guys, and now with this bill, small businesses that didn't win the concession will be completely wiped off the face of the earth. This isn't about you saving young people and protecting non-smoking people and e-cigarettes; the e-cigarette, let's say, is part of the tobacco business. Let's buy a city of 30,000. When this law came into force, the limit was set at two thousand people to win tobacco concessions per two thousand persons. In my district there is a city of this size, the city of Ajka, which means 15 concessions. Then they realized that there were others who didn't win, so let's draw this line a little further, make it 3,000 people, open a tobacco trafik per 3,000 people. Now, we've already lost five taffy guys. Now, in this legislation, you're going to raise it to 4,000 people, and the smoker small contractor who didn't win a concession but runs a tobacco store won't even have a chance to win a concession! Where is the guarantee that your party president, Prime Minister of Hungary, has declared to a national newspaper and a radio? Are you guaranteeing that the family businesses that actually make a living from this and not take profits off people and pass them on, will their livelihoods be guaranteed as promised by Viktor Orbán? That's what they expect. That by 2021 there will be a uniform appearance of tobacco products, and that is when we will bring in the regulation that my fellow Member Szilágyi has tabled as an opposition representative, you must also go to the other Member States of the Union a great deal, there is no need to go to trades to buy cigarettes, go to a gas station or any store, get the same view of the business, the same law, and there is no such thing as attacking a tramp. Unfortunately, this is also a problem in Hungary. Unfortunately, you caused this! The situation should not be dealt with in 2021 if you wish, but now, in 2019, when we have this law before us. I would like an answer to what will happen to small entrepreneurs who are thus excluded from the market. Or are you guys trying to help your friends raise more money? Because it's not about forgetting, it's not about protecting young people. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And to protect non-smokings! It's about one thing to get your friends more concessions.
u2019-12-02-324	Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to speak out of time? [[There's no such signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur, if he would like to reflect. [[For signal:]] I would like to remind you that you have two and a half minutes.
u2019-12-02-325	Thank you, Mr President, I just want to respond to your contributions. We've been hearing this for a long time, and in different approaches, it always comes up, it's a traffic law, and it's not even his name, but the traffic law, it's always coming up. I just want to ask you that if it hadn't been for this law six years ago, then my opposition colleagues would be very pleased that every school, food store next to a kindergarten, small store, and all kinds of shops could buy tobacco for children. I don't think that's a viable way to go. I am telling my fellow Member of Szilágy that in 2021 there will be an opportunity to stop foiling because the uniform advertising laws will make all tobacco products the same, and it will lose its meaning in any way to a business. [[20.30]] That you're hurting your health working in a traffic cam, that's kind of funny for me. [[Lajos Rig: If you're late, it's quite harmful.]] Because there are many jobs that don't happen in the sun, agriculture must be like this, but otherwise there are a lot of services and office activities that are in a place where people work with artificial light. I think it's not entirely right. I say to my fellow Member Hajdu that the control of the traffiks is far more serious than the control of any business in Hungary, the control of any retail business, however not municipal and notary powers, because here the NAV, the police always take action for consumer protection and reporting. I can't judge the operation of the tramps in your district and their ability to earn income. In the rest of the country, I would like to protect those who work in the trade fairs and those who operate trade fairs in a more busy, even small, locality in the country. These people have this livelihood, and these people, I don't think they got it in the traff. For example, in my constituency, who I used to know as a drag queen, he's still a drag queen. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2019-12-02-326	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you, Honourable Parliament, that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's sitting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain tax measures under the Competition for Hungary programme and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow up. Government referral T/8015. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. Mr Csaba Nagy, rapporteur for the committee. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-327	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 28 November 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/8015 amending the laws implementing certain tax measures of the Programme for Competitive Hungary. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 29 votes in favour, 5 votes against. Dear Parliament, The bill before us contains a number of tax measures that reduce the burden on taxpayers, their administration and thus contribute to increasing Hungary's competitiveness. I would not mention a number of amendments in the proposal, but I would also like to draw attention to one of its most important elements. According to an earlier government decision, the Eva will cease. In order to ensure that the transition is undisturbed for old ingress entrepreneurs, a number of amendments to legislation have been justified. Among other things, the proposal serves this purpose. Dear House, The aim of the Hungarian economic policy, in addition to the implementation of the programme for increasing wages and reducing the tax burden, is to ensure that the level of withdrawal at all times is such that it does not encourage tricks, but leads to payment of taxes. The efficiency of tax collection should be maximised in order to maximise the whitening of the black and grey economy. The bill submitted also meets these objectives, and I therefore call on my fellow Members to support it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-12-02-328	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Norbert Izer, if you would like to speak now. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2019-12-02-329	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, On 12 November, the government submitted to the Parliament the bill before us, which serves to implement some of the tax measures of the programme for Hungary, which is more competitive. During the debate, a motion was tabled by one of its representatives, which was included in the Economic Committee's own proposal in a form improved from a codification point of view. Abolition of wildlife damage is a major national interest, and hunting rights are therefore basically a public task through the elimination of wildlife damage. This activity is of particular importance during the period of spreading of dangerous animal diseases such as African swine fever. Stopping the spread of diseases in our region makes it particularly timely to significantly reduce the number of feral pigs in order to prevent damage, even the total number of herds in areas at particular risk. This requires the active involvement of a wide range of persons entitled to hunt. The performance of public tasks is typically not subject to tax. The Committee on Economic Affairs and the Legislative Committee therefore supports with personal income tax the representative's initiative to exempt, with retroactive effect, the services provided under the hunting law to hunters carrying out legal obligations in relation to the elimination of wild game damage. The amendment of the Economic Committee to local taxes was largely supported by the Government because of its administrative burden reduction. The point of the motion is to exclude from the payment of business tax advances in 2019 organisations that did not have to charge their advances in the corporate tax and, as such, in business tax in 2018. According to the amendment to the Rules of Taxation Act, the information relating to employment will be brought to the attention of the tax and customs authorities of the State even if, at the time of the information, the relationship with the taxpayer is no longer present. The amending proposal of the Economic Committee shall, inter alia, provide for technical improvements. On the basis of what has been said, I ask the honourable Members to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-12-02-330	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. We now have speeches from Members. I would like to inform you that a two-minute comment is not possible. Congressman Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik, please.
u2019-12-02-331	Mr President, Dear House, Not repeating the general debate at all, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the title of the proposal does not necessarily reflect the content it contains. It would be very good to discuss ways to improve productivity, how to improve Hungarian conditions so that we can join the processes at the highest possible stage in the international production value chain. Unfortunately, that is not the case. However, there are particularly eligible elements in this package, so I am not resistant at all. I would like to remind you, and I would also remind Mr State Secretary, that we had a suggestion in the debate that, compared to the OECD average, the rate of Hungarian withdrawal is still very high, but we also found a 9 percent difference in a particular segment, which can be called brutal. We do not see the strategy of how the Government of Hungary would want to reduce the rate of withdrawal, at least to the average of the country group of developed economies. Once again, a ravine of amendments or amendments should be made here. This vision, strategy, would be very much heard in the closing hours, so it would be much easier to make a decision. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-12-02-332	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to tell me? [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State if you'd like to reflect. [[For signal:]] No. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the opening of an investment defence agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, of the other part, and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/7686. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, the opinion and position of the Legislative Committee will be presented. Congresswoman Mónika Bartos, rapporteur for the committee, please.
u2019-12-02-333	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 28 November 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed the publication of an investment protection agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, of the other part. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. It adopted it unanimously by 30 votes in favour. Vietnam is a key partner country in Hungary's eastern relations. In recent years, we have gradually developed a colourful, multidimensional and modern cooperation between our countries, which is committed to further development by both the Vietnamese and the Hungarian parties. [[20.40]] Vietnam is a remarkable economic and social development, largely due to a balanced and pragmatic policy of the country's government. Ladies and gentlemen, We can also say that Vietnam is also trying to participate in the international circulation in many ways, which I have experienced as a member of the Hungarian national delegation of the Interparlamental Union, since the 132th Spring Assembly of the Interparlamental Union was held in Hanoi in spring 2015 and 680 Members attended the assembly, and 45 delegations were led by the Speaker of Parliament. With regard to the proposal, I would also point out that Vietnam's annual economic growth rate is persistently above 6 per cent and, in economic terms, it has now become one of the most open Asian countries, where foreign trade accounts for almost 200 per cent of GDP. Vietnam's foreign trade balance ended with a surplus of $23.3 billion in 2018. It should also be noted that Vietnam's gross national product increased by almost 7 percent according to the data of the Vietnamese State Statistical Office. From the outset, Hungary has consistently supported the early signing and conclusion of the free trade and investment protection agreements negotiated with Vietnam. The investment protection agreement offers favourable conditions and will provide further incentives for mutually beneficial development of our bilateral trade and investment relations and will provide substantial economic benefits for both Hungary and Vietnam. The history of this international treaty began in June 2012, when negotiations on a bilateral free trade agreement between the EU and Vietnam were launched. The formal conclusion of the negotiations was notified on 2 December 2015. It was also decided to split the agreement into an exclusive free trade agreement falling within EU competence and an investment protection agreement covering areas shared with Member States. The objective of the FTA and the creation of an investment protection agreement is to develop and facilitate economic relations between the parties, in particular by making the conditions for investment activities in their respective territories more favourable, safer and thus by encouraging investment. The investment protection agreement contains modern investment protection rules that will be implemented through the new investment court system and ensures that the governments of both parties establish legislation taking into account the interests of the citizen in accordance with the agreement. The EU-Vietnam Free Trade and Investment Protection Agreement was signed in Hanoi on 30 June 2019. The adoption of the Investment Protection Agreement will take longer, given the need for all Member States to ratify it in order to enter into force at EU level. The Investment Protection Agreement was signed by Hungary on 26 June 2019 in Brussels after obtaining the necessary legal power to do so. Following its entry into force, the Agreement provides an opportunity to increase trade and support jobs and growth for both parties. Ladies and gentlemen, The adoption of the Investment Protection Agreement, given Vietnam's dynamically expanding economy and the traditionally developed Hungarian-Vietnam foreign economic relations, is eligible in my opinion. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-12-02-334	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Tamás Vargha, Secretary of State, if you would like to speak now. [[For signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, Anybody want to tell me? [[There's no candidate.]] [[For signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, Anybody want to tell me? (No applicants. ) I'll say no. I would like to inform you that the designated Foreign Affairs Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is my duty to ask the author once again that he now wishes to comment on what he did not wish to comment on. (On signal:) Here you go.
u2019-12-02-335	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, Thank you very much for the support of my fellow Members. Madam Congresswoman, I think that you have given an excellent summary of the substance of the bill, and I would ask that my fellow Members also support this bill by voting.
u2019-12-02-336	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission reports submitted to the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on the announcement of an agreement between the Government of Hungary on the settlement of real estate needs of the diplomatic representation of the Republic of Bulgaria and the debate on the summary amendment proposal follow up. Government referral T/8012. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented. Once again, I give the floor to Mónika Bartos, the rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-337	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 28 November 2019 the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria discussed T/8012 on the announcement of an agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on the settlement of issues concerning the needs of the diplomatic representation of the Republic of Bulgaria in Budapest. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. It adopted it unanimously by 22 votes in favour. Ladies and gentlemen, Between Hungary and Bulgaria there is a complex multi-layered network of connections. In addition to our historical roots and geographical common points, we are bound by EU membership on the one hand and the fact that both countries are members of NATO, so the quality of diplomatic relations between the two countries also has very serious defence and security policy implications. Nearly 40 years ago, on 6 December 1980, representatives of the People's Republic of Hungary and the People's Republic of Bulgaria sat down with each other in order to settle the permanent use of the land transferred to Bulgarian Embassy staff and the construction conditions. However, the agreement signed at the time, as we know, left unsolved cases, as far as implementation is concerned. Therefore, the purpose of the bill in question is to settle the legal situation of immovable property for the provision of diplomatic representation in Bulgaria. Bulgaria currently owns a building at 24-26 Pajzs utca and 4 Hegyalja út. However, the land on which these properties are located is owned by the Hungarian State. Hungary is now handing over the ownership of these two plots to Bulgaria. In addition, the Bulgarian party is currently using three additional properties, under No.22 of Levendula Street 15-17, Bartha Street 6 and Stromfeld Aurél Road, which it is now handing over to Hungary for compensation of EUR 4 million. Overall, this bill contributes to the end of current irregular relations, thereby increasing the quality of Hungarian-Bulgarian bilateral relations. I would like to thank my fellow Members if they support this proposal and thank you for your attention.
u2019-12-02-338	Thank you, Congresswoman. I ask you, on behalf of the rapporteur, the Secretary of State would like to speak now. [[For signal:]] It says no. The designated Committee on Foreign Affairs did not draft a rapporteur. I'll ask him if anyone wants to tell me. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Secretary of State, please.
u2019-12-02-339	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for your support so far, and I would like to ask you to support the bill in voting as well.
u2019-12-02-340	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, It follows that Act I of 2007 on the entry and residence of persons with the right of free movement and residence, and Article XV of 2019 concerning the necessary amendment of certain laws in the event of an irregular exit of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. [[20.50]] Government referral T/8027. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Törő, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-341	Mr. President. Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 28 November 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed the amendment of Act I of 2007 on the entry and residence of persons with the right of free movement and residence and of certain laws necessary for the irregular exit of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union in accordance with Article XV of the 2019 Act on the entry and residence of persons with the right of free movement and residence. T/8027. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. pursuant to Rule 26 of the Rules of Procedure, adopted unanimously by 26 votes in favour, no votes in favour and no abstentions. There was no debate at all at the Legislative Committee, as we must do everything possible to allow British citizens living in Hungary to stay in an orderly situation if Britain is to leave the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, In the light of what has been said above, it can be concluded that the adoption of the bill is particularly necessary and is supported by all groups, and I therefore ask for your support for the adoption of the bill.
u2019-12-02-342	Thank you very much, Congressman. Would you like to speak for the author, Mr. Secretary? [[On Tamás Vargha's mark:]] It says no. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Defence and Police Committee. I'm asking if someone would like to tell me. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. Secretary of State, please.
u2019-12-02-343	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Since the proposal before us serves both the Hungarian and the British national interests, I ask that you support the proposal during the vote. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2019-12-02-344	Thank you very much. The debate is closed. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the announcement of the Convention on the Transfer of Convicted Persons between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco and the debate on the summarised amendment follow. The government referral is T/7996. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. Ms Mónika Bartos, rapporteur for the committee. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-345	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 28 November 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed the publication of the T/7996 Convention between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco on the transfer of sentenced persons. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 31 votes in favour, no votes against, with 2 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, This bill aims to make the transfer of prisoners between the Kingdom of Morocco and Hungary a more efficient and simpler procedure. This agreement has important and clear logistical advantages, but beyond this point it is also intended to promote the reintegration of prisoners into society. The fact that the agreement gives them the opportunity to serve their sentence in their own State can significantly promote their social reintegration. The bilateral relations between Hungary and Morocco have improved a lot in recent years, and this convention, which was discussed together with another convention on the mutual release of criminals on a similar subject, has received unanimous support from my fellow Members during the general debate. That is why I ask my fellow Members to continue to support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-12-02-346	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Secretary of State Völner, if you would like to speak now. [[Dr. Völner on Pál's signal:]] It says no. The designated Committee on Foreign Affairs did not wish to set up a rapporteur. Anybody want to tell me? [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Mr. Secretary? [[Dr. Völner on Pál's signal:]] He doesn't want to say anything right now. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of individual laws to the introduction of the Grandparent Childcare Fee and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow up. Government referral T/6191. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, a presentation of the position of the Legislative Committee. Congressman Csaba Nagy is the rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-347	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 21 November 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed the amendment of certain laws to the introduction of the Grandparent Childcare Fee, T/6191. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. It adopted it unanimously by 28 votes in favour. The purpose of this bill is for grandparents to be more active in raising grandchildren as of 1 January next year. This is a step that will strengthen the relationship between grandparents and grandchildren, i.e. between generations, and a step that will help Hungarian families raising children again. The proposal allows grandparents to be at home with grandchildren from 1 January next year, so help parents who raise small children and want to return to the labour market early. Grandparent gyed means a monthly grant of HUF 208 thousand for an average salary, so the grandparent can be at home with his granddaughter for HUF 208 thousand. After a period with the child at home, the grandparents may return to the labour market if they so wish. Since the retirement period will be considered as a period of entitlement for the home period with the granddaughter, you can, of course, still retire in such a way that you can count on this period for the retirement period. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support this legislative amendment proposal, which will allow us to take another step towards family-friendly Hungary and increase support for families. On the basis of the arguments presented, the bill before us must, in my opinion, be supported, so I ask you to do the same. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-02-348	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mrs Zsuzsanna Vitályos, State Secretary, if you would like to speak now. [[Dr. Eszter Vitályos on the signal of Zsuzsanna:]] It says no. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Welfare Committee. No two-minute comments are possible. The speeches will be followed by the representatives; first, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Commission, Jobbik.
u2019-12-02-349	Mr President, Dear House, At this late hour, I thank all those interested in the subject and the rapporteur for their presence, because we may be able to clarify certain issues between ourselves, since the general debate, this has been a success with regard to partial issues. There was serious opposition fear that those who used your grandparents, since they would typically turn their last years before retirement into a childish affair, could lose what part of their future pension. Since then, based on the calculations of various portals and professionals on this issue, if not completely, but I feel that we can relax in place. The roughly average number in the press reports is that a little more than 40 percent of the most recent average wage could be lost by a grandparent who is going out with his granddaughter and about one and a half percent of his future pension. This is a tip from financial professionals, but we can now have a realistic basis for discussion. I am very sorry that, at the time of the general debate, we did not have any concrete facts or figures. This is where I am able to debate, so I am sure that I would not cancel this proposal or its subsequent positive effects. [[21.00]] However, where I remain a little more tense, the incomprehensible condition is that our retired countryman simply cannot use this form of child, the grandparents' lawn. The cynicism in this proposal has shifted to the age when women give birth to their children, and since the change of method, there has been a continuous, approximately five-year difference. We are talking about two generations here, so the period and years of displacement must be sufficiently multiplied by two. What we see is that it is very, very narrowing down the range of potential users by the fact that, for purely biological reasons, only taking into account age characteristics, not everyone can have children in Hungary at such a young age. Some people want to, but under the circumstances, they can't. I see that the government is spending approximately HUF 1 billion on this whole package, and treats this as a difference, so it doesn't want to put that much, but considers the difference between the previous earnings and the lawn as HUF 1 billion, if I understand correctly. And I also see that if we didn't have 1 billion for the package, but opened it up to retired grandparents, so they could use it, I could very much support the fact that the Government of Hungary would separate a few billion forints more and press a yes to the proposal to at least crack the button. But we have a problem here not only with the HUF 1 billion, but also with further strong cuts in the final proposal. It should be clarified, for example, that if the family with the child and the grandparents are not living in the same town, but, for example, God and Dunakeszi are the two residences where the grandparents and parents live and live and live, they may still be able to turn the solution to believe that a Göd Grandparent can take care of the Danube child or turn the relationship between the cities. Without these limits, a much wider circle could make use of this proposal, which would be extremely important from a demographic point of view. Because the biggest problem with the government's demographic package is that it keeps uncertainty and uncertainty in the system. However, the involvement of a greater help from grandparents could alleviate these uncertainties. I think it is an important, good idea that we should argue about the ways in which we implement it, especially because Hungary's performance has deteriorated in every measurable demographic indicator compared to a year ago, even in terms of fertility rates, on which we have enjoyed together for years that this indicator has finally started to grow. So what we need to see is that the use of the help of grandparents is an absolute way to go, and it is a perfectly good way to go, but the very narrowing conditions and the government's desire to group only and a total of 1 billion plus are proof that this is a rhetorically sound package, but it is not certain that it will go with measurable results in terms of demographic indicators. I would like to call upon my fellow pro-government Members to expand the range of potential users, to group extra billions here, if they so require, to indicate where or from which luxury investment in the Tao system we would group billions from. I believe that opposition parties can be expected by all fair-way pro-government leaders, proposers, if they make a truly demographicly outstanding, positive proposal on the table. I would encourage you to remove these restrictive conditions from the system, to be a little braver, and my support will certainly enjoy it. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-12-02-350	Thank you very much. Congressman Lajos Korózs, MSZP!
u2019-12-02-351	I will almost pick up, to be precise, where my fellow Member left off. We had the debate about it quite a long time ago, and this proposal was refined in many places. I also expressed my concerns at the time that it was not very realistic for a grandmother to give up the last years of her active career, because it was feared that the size of the initial pension would be quite hiatus compared to her retirement from the open labour market as an active employee. That's one thing. The other thing I note is that if this had actually been brought to the House as a help that retired parents could receive this form of care, because it was almost two decades ago that there was an opportunity to use Grandmamagyes in Hungary, it is true that there are no two forms of care in pari, because the rate of loss has been frozen here for 11 years, the authors mentioned that they could receive an average fee of up to HUF 200,000, and I am curious how many people will use it, because there are no stable statistical data and reports on the users of Grandmamagyes. But it's all said that the budget was dedicated to it for a total of HUF 1 billion. So it is highly unlikely that on the government side, even now tens of thousands of grandparents will use this form of support, to be more precise: they will discuss with their children that they will use them, who can go to the open labour market. Nevertheless, the MSZP fraction says that we can support any initiative that improves, facilitates the situation of families, and that young couples who wish to work on the labour market can find solutions in this way to the care of children during the day. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-12-02-352	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn, LMP!
u2019-12-02-353	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, The LMP fraction will support all laws that really help families and give families the opportunity to thrive. We would also look forward to further proposals such as an increase in family allowances or other good proposals that could continue to be in the interest of families. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-02-354	Anybody else want to tell me? [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if she wants to reflect. [[Dr. Eszter Zsuzsanna Vitályos: No.]] He doesn't want to. I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place at our later meeting. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CXC on national public education follows a series of steps. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. T/8003 submitted by the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. I would like to ask the rapporteur, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, Mr Imre Ritter, representative of nationality, if you would like to speak now. [[Imre Ritter: Yes.]] Here you go.
u2019-12-02-355	Thank you. Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Mr President, Dear House, The CXC of 2011 on national public education was submitted by the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary on 4 November 2019. T/803. Parliament held its general debate on 21 November 2019. At its meeting on 26 November 2019, the Cultural Committee discussed T/8003. Bill No. 44 and found that it complied with the house rules. Paragraph 1 of this Article. No amendments were submitted to the bill by its representatives or Commission. There was no question at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, and no debate was reached. As rapporteur for the general debate in Parliament, I have explained in detail the background and significance of the bill, and I would therefore like to overlook that. I will, of course, be ready to answer any questions at the end of the debate. Thank you.
u2019-12-02-356	Thank you very much. I'm going to ask you if you'd like to speak on behalf of the government. [[There's no candidate.]] [[There's no candidate.]] No. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. No two-minute comments are possible. Would anyone like to speak, honourable Members? (No applicants. ) I'll say no. The debate is closed. Would the representative of the minority still like to speak? [[Imre Ritter: Yes.]] Here you go.
u2019-12-02-357	Dear Parliament, With all due respect, I would like to ask all the factions and the independent Members to support the bill in tomorrow's parliamentary vote. Thank you very much. [[21.10]]
u2019-12-02-358	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the proposal for irrigation management and the final proposal for an amendment follow up. The government referral is T/7845. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman László B. Nagy, rapporteur. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-359	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 28 November 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/7845 on irrigation farming. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 27 votes in favour, 1 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, The aim of the proposal before us is to spread irrigation farming in order to allow farmers to adapt flexibly to poor precipitation conditions and hectic precipitation distribution and to improve the efficiency of agricultural production. The bill and the related measures cover all the steps and instruments that can be taken today from the government side to improve the professional, legal and financing conditions for farmers' irrigation investments and to remove the obstacles currently existing before irrigation. For the sake of the development of Hungarian agriculture, I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-02-360	Thank you very much. On behalf of the rapporteur, I would like to ask Mr. Secretary Farkas if he would like to speak now. [[For signal:]] It says no. The rapporteur for the designated Committee on Agriculture, Mr Balázs Győrffy. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-361	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The main objective of the Law on Irrigation Management is to spread irrigation farming and to improve the efficiency of production. In view of these objectives, the bill was discussed by both the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on Sustainable Development, and then, as we have just heard, by the Legislative Committee. I would like to present to the House the most important amendments adopted by the Committee on Agriculture. The amendments made to the proposal are mostly technical, with some exceptions. The bill aims to provide a solution to the problem of water transfer with the possibility of establishing an irrigation service. To this end, the amendment makes it clear that the service only applies to the construction and operation of fixed water facilities, so that no other type of water facility, such as a well, can be established in other parts of the land. It becomes clear that access to a third-party work can be done on the basis of a water license in accordance with the legislation, which requires the consent of the operator of the third-party work. It is noted that the designation of the irrigation district should also take into account the hydrogeological aspects and that the irrigation development plan should be amended if the water management conditions have changed. The period of validity of the environmental district plan also changes. Because of its importance, this topic was discussed separately in the Legislative Committee. The original proposal included 15 years, but these 15 years did not fit in any form for other periods, so there are 10 proposals in the Committee on Agriculture and then a 20-year proposal in the Legislative Committee. I note that I believe that the majority of the Committee on Agriculture can agree on 20 years, only in some way have a sufficient rhythm of this number. As a result, the Irrigation Administration prepares the environmental district plan not only for irrigation communities and those meeting the territorial threshold, but also for other areas of special appreciation. The bill and the amendments that have just been presented are suitable for improving crop safety, since the creation of adequate water safety can help the population to continue to supply healthy domestic food in the long term. This also significantly supports the development of the competitiveness of the farmers concerned. The above points have been supported by the Committee on Agriculture, and I would also like the support of my fellow Members. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-02-362	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Varga, rapporteur for the Committee on Sustainable Development. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-363	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As a result of climate change, it is crucial to improve irrigation and improve water management to increase the competitiveness of domestic agriculture. As my fellow Members have already said, the aim of the proposal is to ensure that the wider use of irrigation farming is spread in order to allow Hungarian farmers to adapt flexibly to the challenges of the weather and to improve the efficiency of our agricultural production. Most of the problems in Hungary are due to atmospheric drought, atmospheric drought. The management of surface water can reduce the adverse effects of the climate and the osmosis pressure to ensure the access of plants to water. The law lays down, as has already been said, the most important frameworks for establishing cooperation between farmers, and the draft law grants irrigation rights to farmers, allowing the use of the land of others to carry out the water transfer. According to the bill, irrigation activities require a water licence, so the holder of the irrigation service should be a water licence holder. The adoption of the law will reduce the cost of preparing the 100 hectares of land for irrigation by an average of HUF 5 million, and the duration of the investments may be reduced by an average of 90 to 120 days. Dear House, The bill and its related measures contain significant improvements and call for major changes which will help to eliminate the remaining obstacles to irrigation. I request your support for the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-02-364	Thank you very much. Would anyone like to speak, honourable Members? [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. I'm going to ask Mr. Secretary of State if you'd like to speak to me. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2019-12-02-365	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Firstly, I thank you very much for the debate that was held by those in the general debate and for adding their thoughts to this draft law. At the same time, I thank the Committee on Agriculture and the Legislative Committee for their amendments, on the basis of which I am convinced that, from the point of view of management, with the draft legislation on irrigation, I will state without exaggeration that we will adopt a law of historical importance. My fellow Members have already provided us with this in advance, in today's comment, so please do so when adopting the law. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-02-366	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place at our later meeting. Dear Parliament, The 2013 CII on fish management and the protection of fish follows a series of steps. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The representatives of Lajos Szűcs, Sándor Font and Zsolt Nyitrai, Fidesz, submitted T/8036. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee. Mr László B. Nagy is the rapporteur. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-367	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 28 November 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2013 CII on fish management and the protection of fish. T/8036. Bill No. 1. [[21.20]] The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 23 votes in favour, with 6 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The bill before us sets out the data that the Hungarian National Fishing Association processes during the provision of the fishing register and recreational fishing register and the issue of the Hungarian fishing card certifying registration in order to fulfil the public tasks required by the Law of Mohosz. The proposal on the House's table, adapted to the original concept of the law, serves as a recreational activity to ensure the possibility of fishing on an ongoing basis. On the basis of the reasons already known, I ask my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-02-368	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Congressman Szűcs, who would like to speak. [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] It says no. Would you like to speak on behalf of the government, Secretary of State? (To signal:) No. Honourable Members, Anybody want to tell me? [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak now. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Congressman Lajos Szűcs.
u2019-12-02-369	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear fellow Members, Thank you for the opportunity. The new development started last year resulted in more than 584 thousand fishing cards, and the processing of these fishing cards is obviously a serious task, so I thank all my colleagues for the work they have done in the last year. On the basis of ongoing consultation with the Data Protection Authority, we have brought to this House the solution that is best suited to GDPR, national data management rules and fishermen. That is why I ask my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-02-370	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you, Honourable Parliament, that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's sitting. Dear Parliament, Next, the 1990 XCIII on levies. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/8038. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, a presentation of the position of the Legislative Committee, Mr Gábor Törő, is the rapporteur. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-371	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at the meeting of the Legislative Committee held on 28 November 2019, XCIII of 1990 on fees was discussed. T/8038. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 25 votes in favour, with 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, The aim of the bill is to remove financial speculation due to the increase in value due to the inclusion of property within the interior by introducing a new payment obligation, a speculation levy. The traffic value of a property increases significantly after entry into the interior. The sole objective behind these transactions may be to include the real estate outside the territory after it has been purchased and then to re-sell it with a significant profit. According to the Government's bill, the transfer fee should be paid to the seller of real estate property or property rights whose property has been classified from land to land during the period of ownership of the property and the ten years prior to the sale at the latest, but not earlier than 1 February 2020. Dear House, In the light of what has been said, it can be said that the bill before us serves objectives to be supported, and I therefore call on my fellow Members to support the bill.
u2019-12-02-372	Thank you very much. I will ask the author, Mr Orbán State Secretary, if you would like to speak now. [[For signal:]] He'll tell you later. No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. We now have a speech from Members. Congressman Csaba Gyure, Jobbik, please.
u2019-12-02-373	Thank you very much, Mr President, very briefly. It is indeed a good bill, but there is only one big problem with it, its timeliness. If this had been on the House's table nine years ago, we would have said that this law is really right and very good, but this is what this bill is about, which cannot otherwise be supported, since taxing land speculation and taxing speculation incomes are welcome in any way, another question is that it was just nine years in the capital that the NER riders and the economic oligarchs around them can safely run these shops without any extra tax or tax and these extra taxes and obtain these extra goods. Now that the opposition has been taken over in the capital and ten cities with county rights, they obviously do not want left-wing business groups in the capital to implement and obtain the proceeds from this. We, the Movement for Jobbik Hungary, say that neither the left, nor the right, nor the NER knights should obtain this. Now there were nine years when they could do that, and we welcome the fact that this law will eventually be born. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-12-02-374	Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to speak, honourable Members? [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. State Secretary Orbán wishes to reflect? [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2019-12-02-375	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Very briefly. As has been said, the amendment of the tax law would be about the payment of a refundable transfer fee after being classified as an external real estate area; it is about conversions after 1 February 2020 and the rate of the levy is 90 per cent of the base of the levy, as was stated in the presentation of the Commission's legislative resolution. From our point of view, we believe that this bill is capable of preventing real estate speculation, of giving a clear signal about the level of the levy, of preventing tax evasion, and of being transparent, it is easy to identify for society as a whole that the aim is to reduce speculation abuse. If I may, I would like to comment briefly on what Mr Gyure said; we also fought a duel in this regard in the context of the general debate. I think that the national government cannot be accused of bad intentions in this case, given that the introduction of a special levy duty for this purpose only makes sense if the situation on the real estate market is the way it is, and for that the economic performance of the capital itself must be as it is. This could have been done in the period 2010-2011, but, unfortunately, the Hungarian economy and the real estate market were in such a bad state that no one wanted to benefit from speculation in this way. So I think that this bill is timely now, and we can also identify a phenomenon that is much easier to carry out real estate investment from the outside to the interior than, by the way, to invest in real estate by means of brownfield investments in the interior, because there are demolition works in relation to it, and authorisation is also a more complicated story. And that, I think, is in no interest for any local government to remain in the area of barning areas around downtown, which have no chance of being recultivated, and in addition, the size of the settlement should continue to grow, and it is practically the agglomeration peripheral areas that are developing. This is not in the interest of any settlement, it does not matter whether it has pro-government or opposition leadership. And to add one more aspect: this is desirable also because of the nature conservation contexts. It has also been said in the general debate that these are mainly areas which are unbuilt, and I do not say that they are forested, but let us say that they are wooded, meadowd, which are not difficult to manage in relation to the protection of nature, but easy to manage. [[21.30]] So the protection of these, I think, can also be in everyone's interest and duty. Apart from this argument, what Mr Gyüre said, and also the general debate, I value it in a constructive way. In fact, there was only one entirely legitimate need for amendment, which was also dealt with in the TAB procedure. The question is that, in the case of assets acquired by inheritance, the sale for speculation can be excluded, and therefore the property acquired by inheritance was excluded from the scope of the law and the levy. I think I can tell you about everyone's satisfaction in this matter, too. Thank you very much for your comments, thank you all in advance for your support, and thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-02-376	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The 2014 LXXVI on scientific research, development and innovation follows. a debate on the Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and of the related legislative provisions and the summary amendment proposal. The government referral is T/8032. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First we hear the position of the Legislative Committee. The rapporteur is Ms Mónika Dunai. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-377	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee discussed the 2014 LXXVI on scientific research, development and innovation at its meeting on 28 November 2019. Act T/8032 amending Act T/8032 and certain related legislative provisions No.2 of the proposal, the bill. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 25 votes in favour, 7 against and 2 abstentions. The primary objective of this bill is to make the use of the available R &amp; D and innovation resources even more effective, planned and in line with more strategic objectives. The proposal clarifies the tasks and responsibilities of the public actors that shape R &amp; D and innovation policies and the framework for their cooperation in the context of the restructuring of the RDI system. The proposal streamlines and simplifies the system of public support for R &amp; D and innovation in Hungary. The proposal simplifies and streamlines the rules on RDI applications financed by the NRDI Fund, their evaluation and clarifies the rules applied in relation to RDI projects and grants, based on the experience of the NRDI Office and the NRDI Fund over four years. A further important element of the amendment is the fine-tuning of the R &amp; D certification process carried out by the National Intellectual Property Office. The bill complements the rules on professional activities carried out by the SZTNH, so that the expertise of the SZTNH can be used not only by the tax authority, the court or other authorities but also by research and development firms. In addition to the key regulatory objectives, the bill includes technical amendments. The proposal therefore contains provisions for compliance with the GDPR, as well as clarification and technical amendments related to the operation of the Eötvös Loránd Research Network. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft is forward-looking, since the current amendment of the Act makes the task of certain public actors in R &amp; D policy clear and clearer, increasing the efficiency of the cooperation of public actors and strengthening the framework for support and incentives for the RDI system. The efficiency gains achieved through the government fine-tuning of the system can thus be used for the benefit of innovative companies in Hungary. In addition, the clarification of the terms and opinions underlying the tender system and the RF rating will help this process, which will result in further strengthening of the Hungarian economy in the coming years. Ladies and gentlemen, Since the Legislative Committee also proposes the adoption of the law, I ask my fellow Members to do the same. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-02-378	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I'm going to ask the author, Mr. Secretary Schanda, if you'd like to speak now. [[For signal:]] Later. The designated Committee on Culture has not produced a rapporteur, honourable Members. Anybody want to tell me? [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Secretary of State, please.
u2019-12-02-379	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you for the successful outcome of the parliamentary debate on the bill. Although critical opinions may have been expressed at times, overall, in a supportive medium. Thank you for that, and I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-02-380	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the proposed amendment to certain energy laws for harmonisation purposes and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. The government referral is T/7846. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, the position of the Legislative Committee. The rapporteur is Mr András Aradski. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-381	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee held a meeting on 21 November 2019 to discuss the T/7846 amendment of certain energy laws for harmonisation purposes. Bill No. 1. There was no discussion at the committee meeting, and subsequently the amendment, the summary report and the summarised amendment proposed by the House Rule 46. The Committee adopted it by 22 votes to five, with four abstentions. Dear Parliament, The bill before you is aimed at national transposition and alignment of 11 EU legislation on energy and one piece of waste management legislation in the EU regarding changes to energy sector regulations. The adoption of the bill is essentially necessary for legal harmonisation in view of changes in the energy sector and the measures implemented. The need for national transposition and alignment of various EU acts that have been adopted over the past period justifies the amendment of the energy legislation contained in the bill and the waste law. The adoption of these standards is essential for the continued operation of the regulatory system ensuring energy supply in Hungary. In the light of what has been said, I would ask my fellow Members to support the bill tabled. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-12-02-382	Thank you very much. I'll ask the author, Mr Kaderjak State Secretary, if you'd like to speak now. [[For signal:]] No. No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of the Group, LMP, please. [[21.40]]
u2019-12-02-383	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I did not really want to comment on the proposal at this stage of the debate, but I take advantage of the fact that you are here on behalf of the rapporteur, Mr State Secretary. I would like to make one question, because it is still the regulation of the energy sector. In the context of the Commission's report, we have also heard that it is essentially a question of harmonisation of laws, but we can see that the government is submitting salad laws in which, in addition to harmonisation, technical amendments and other amendments of a kind are possible. At the same time, I'm missing something here. I would like to ask you this because there are a number of cities where district heating has been switched to biomass, and a government decree of 2012 decides that zero emissions should be taken into account. In this way, apartments equipped with biomass-fired district heating are excluded from energy modernisation applications such as the "Home Hot" programme. I would like to ask the Secretary of State how he sees the Government's intentions and wishes to face this problem. In virtually no way in this programme can a large number of affected apartments apply, and there is no way to obtain funding for insulation or even window replacements that, I believe, are not the subject of discussion that there would be important green investments. On the bill, I would like to ask you this one brief question, in case I get an answer now to the Government's intentions from the Secretary of State. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-02-384	The faction leader took advantage of this opportunity in an observant manner. Let's see. Who wants anything else? [[Defiance.]] I don't see any other representatives speaking. The debate is closed. I'm sure the Secretary of State wants to reflect, because I'm sure he wants to answer the question. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-385	Thank you very much. It is not exactly a spontaneous question relating to the proposed legislative package. I am not really aware of the fact that such conditions would result in certain remotely heated apartments being excluded from the "Home Gay" program. We will examine this and consider your suggestion; in the event that this is actually the case, this is worth remedying. By the way, I would perhaps like to say that, for our part, we consider it extremely important to support energy efficiency investments in remotely heated homes. We are in the process of making the two hundred thousand apartments manageable, where heat consumption can still be controlled by opening the window. We would definitely like to avoid any anomalies in this system that you mentioned. So we're gonna look at it, and if that's true, we're gonna correct that. [[Dr. László Keresztes Lóránt: Thank you very much.]]
u2019-12-02-386	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Kaderjak. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment and repealing provisions relating to the entry into force of Act... of 2019 on Vocational Education and Training and the discussion of the summary amendment follow. The government referral is T/8014. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. The debate will be the first to hear the position of the Legislative Committee. The rapporteur is Ms Mónika Dunai. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-387	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 28 November 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed the amendment and repealing provisions relating to the entry into force of the 2019 Vocational Training Act T/8014. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. under § 25 yes, 4 votes against, with 5 abstentions accepted and supported. The primary objective of this bill is to harmonise the legal system with the new vocational training law, and to create related legislative amendments that will facilitate and ensure the effective functioning of the reformed vocational training and adult education system and to make full use of its potential. The proposal is predominantly separate from the system of public education, the Skt. it contains the necessary renamings due to a system of vocational training within the education system, which has been established within its regulatory framework and represents a separate branch within the education system. The proposal clarifies the role of the Minister for Vocational Training as regards the basic part of the National Employment Fund, which is the basic source of funding for VET, in line with the restructuring of the VET regulatory system. The new system of vocational training will change the system of scholarships, allowances and grants for pupils and trainees. According to the proposal, by amending the Family Support Act, we will extend the entitlement to the family allowance to students in the vocational training system that separates them from the public education system. Ladies and gentlemen, In the case of public education institutions operating under the alternative pedagogical programme, the amendment facilitates the transition to the application of the new rules and does not provide for re-approval within a closed deadline, but allows for further operation on the basis of existing and valid licences. The development of a new vocational training system and the changing training needs and expectations of companies also have a decisive impact on the system of adult education. It is therefore necessary to harmonise and amend the Adult Education Act within the framework of the bill. As a new element strengthening the adult education system, it appears that professional training based on programme requirements can be obtained by a State recognised professional qualification. The scope of adult training activities will be extended to all education and training aimed at the development of competence and competence development and organised at the same time. Dear Parliament, This draft should be clearly supported, since the renewal of the vocational training system, the modernisation of the elements of adult education, is the result of a well-thought-out, broad professional process with a maximum focus on the challenges of the age. The new VET and adult education frameworks provide a number of new opportunities and a strong and stable legal background for all those involved and interested in training. I would ask this House to support the proposal in the final vote, just as the Legislative Committee has done. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-12-02-388	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Tamás Schanda, if you would like to speak now. [[Tamás Schanda: No, thank you.]] It says no. The Committee on Culture, the designated committee, has not presented a rapporteur. I give the floor to Antal Paulik, a Slovak nationalist advocate, the rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary related to the debate, who presents the first sentences of his speech in the language of nationality and then translates them into Hungarian. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-389	-akujem za slovo, pan predseda! Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Vážený pán predseda, poslanci, vážený pán štátny tajomník! Ako výborom poverený národnostný hovorca vo svojom príhovore informujem Vás o stanovisku Výboru národností Ma.arska, ktoré sme si vytvorili na zasadnutí výboru 26. novembra k návrhu zázona o modifikácii niektorých zákonov v súvislosti s novým zákonom o odbornom školstve. Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, As the spokesperson requested by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, I would like to briefly present to you the opinion of our committee at its meeting on 26 November on the draft amending and repealing provisions relating to the entry into force of the Act on Vocational Training. Since the Commission's report from the designated committees and the summarised amendments submitted by the committees to the proposal did not contain the content directly or exclusively related to nationality public education, vocational education and training, our committee does not comment on them. Therefore, even after our open question has not survived with regard to the original proposal, the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary proposes the adoption of the present proposal. , akujem Vám za pozornost. Thank you for your attention. [[21.50]]
u2019-12-02-390	Thank you very much. Would anyone like to speak, honourable Members? [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Mr. Secretary, would you like to speak now? [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2019-12-02-391	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Allow me to thank you both for the positive and critical comments made in the debate on the law. We're grateful for these. Before I ask you to support the bill, allow me to say that we also have a number of goals in connection with this bill and the transformation of the entire vocational training system. I would just like to highlight one of these tonight, namely that the aim of this regulation is also to appreciate teachers in vocational training and to further strengthen the Hungarian vocational training system by strengthening them. Therefore, as of July 2020, the salary of trainers in vocational training will increase by an average of 30 percent, to which the government will provide HUF 35 billion, with the benefits of previous pedagogical status guaranteed to teachers who are transferred to the new vocational training system. However, there is still time to talk about the bill and the transformation of the vocational training system. I wouldn't do that right now. I would like to thank you once again for your contributions at various stages of the debate and with great respect for the support of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Mónika Dunai applauds.]]
u2019-12-02-392	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place at our later meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the proposed amendment of individual laws for harmonisation purposes and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. The government referral is T/8041. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented within a 15-minute timeframe. Mr András Aradszki, rapporteur for the committee. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-393	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee held a meeting on 28 November 2019 to discuss the T/8041 on the amendment of certain laws for harmonisation purposes. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rule 46 of the Legislative Committee. By 22 votes in favour, 9 votes against. There was a serious debate at the meeting on certain elements of the bill. Dear Parliament, On 12 November 2019 the Ministry of Innovation and Technology submitted T/8041 on the amendment of certain laws for harmonisation purposes. Legislative proposal No 1 to fulfil the tasks of harmonisation arising from our important obligations in the Member States of the European Union. The bill also affects, on a number of points, the law on road transport, car taxation, air transport, water transport and rail transport, without the need for completeness. Another important element is the amendment of the law on local authorities, which is basically necessary, while at the same time clarifying the act on the allocation of funds, in order to clarify the system of provision of tasks and funding. To this end, according to the bill, the Municipality of Metropolitan City must first use the amount necessary to carry out the local community transport task from the shared tax revenue and, in the case of other municipalities, local tax revenues constitute the financing of public transport. By means of the bill, the local government must first use its business tax revenue to finance the local community transport task, in so far as it carries out such a task. Dear House, By amending the law on rail transport and the Law on the professional investigation of accidents in air, rail and water transport and other transport events, Hungary will implement a legislative provision of the technical pillar of the fourth railway package in order to ensure that government and ministerial regulations can be drawn up in order to ensure full transposition. The amendment also addresses issues related to the development of railway infrastructure in order to make better use of EU funds. In view of this, the proposal should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Mónika Dunai applauds.]]
u2019-12-02-394	Thank you very much. I'm going to ask the author, Mr. Secretary Schanda, if you'd like to speak now. [[For signal:]] It says no. No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. Honourable Members, Anybody want to tell me? [[For signal:]] László László Keresztes, Leader of the Group, LMP, please.
u2019-12-02-395	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, There is no way I would like to repeat what has been said in the general debate. We discussed this proposal in great detail at a late hour, didn't we? At the same time, there's one question left in the air. I promised Mr Secretary of State that if we do not know then, on that particular day, on the 20th, if I remember correctly, I would return to this. The government has a 1537/2019 resolution, which deals, among other things, with a proposal to the Government, involving the Minister of Innovation and Technology, the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Finance and the Minister without a wallet for the management of national assets, for a model of public financing for local public transport. This proposal concerns the fact that public transport must be financed by local business tax for the municipalities, cities and municipalities concerned. This task, which was given to the Minister of Innovation by the deadline of 31 March 2020, concerns the need to develop a model of public financing for public transport, at least part of its public funding. This is a very serious contradiction. I think we all know that it is one of the most important public services that cannot be financed by any city, i.e. either the capital or the large rural cities. These municipalities simply do not have the resources necessary for this extremely important task. However, this government decision has also given some cause for concern, and we have clarified in several exchanges with Minister that he does not wish to nationalise municipal transport companies, but it has been concluded that he wishes to participate in the financing. That is the contradiction I ask you to resolve, Secretary of State. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-02-396	Congressman László Hajdu, DK!
u2019-12-02-397	Mr President, Mr. Secretary. As former mayor, I think I owe it to the current mayor colleagues to speak for them. I think that the municipalities that provide local public transport themselves are not a pleasure law for them. So I think that this is a tightening up, while a very significant part of the municipalities is a major contributor to the state register. You don't get a penny of personal income tax back on what you're paying, but the business tax will also be labeled for the future, which means they have to operate on a mandatory basis. This source in itself, this trade tax, who knows this in practice, we know precisely that the real revenues of municipalities are only tax-based. This will create obstacles to the performance of a number of municipal basic tasks, depending on the size of the settlement, of course, and depending on its tax power, but it is a very significant obstacle. This should be known to the legislators and proposers, who have proposed that the capital of Budapest be named specifically by the deposits made by the capital of Budapest in the Hungarian GDP, while in the same way it will not receive any funds from personal income tax. I would like to mention that public transport could also benefit from the city's tax revenue from a car tax, 60% of which is also taken away by the state from the municipalities. This is a very significant tap of resources in Budapest; I think it is quite unworthy. [[22.00]] And if I think further about the burdens that the municipalities have recently received, then I must mention the taking away of the property of the nationalised public education building, which the state has taken away from the municipal authorities for long-term use, but it must be financed under solidarity tax the institutional system that has been financed from our own costs so far. And we don't determine how much we can spend on the school, we get the directive centrally. The capital of Budapest pays a solidarity tax of HUF 10 billion. It's just the capital. The municipality where I was mayor recently was 800 million forints. And all 23 districts pay solidarity taxes, with a total solidarity tax of around HUF 20 billion, so that KLIK can operate the schools that we have operated so far. This is also a burden, a tagged burden, such as the tagged burden that will now come in, among other things, the translation of business tax into local public transport. I am obliged to tell the Secretary of State, although I believe that I have mentioned once before that the particular problem in Budapest is that, after being named in the law, the capital is that the huge tourist traffic here travels on this public transport. The cost of total tourism is financed by the capital from its own business tax. But there's another problem: the agglomeration settlements have the metropolitan flights going out in a row. There are also trams where there are only buses, so the agglomerational public transport is also carried out by the capital from this business tax. Of course, it is not clear from this law that the municipalities concerned, where public transport goes, will agree with each other on the proportion of their contribution or payment by the State instead of the capital, but will not pay the costs of public transport. But there are also significant cities above 10,000 people. There are several of them, which are over 10,000 people, and Budapest runs the road towards the city. So I think that there are a number of things in this burden, and then I will not talk about the fact that the competing sector, the Ministry of Finance, also pays the minimum wage or the guaranteed minimum wage to the municipalities without adding funds. But I could name it. So the municipalities can be burdened to this extent only with some kind of targeted, ulterior motive, because there is simply no other real income here, this cannot be borne by the municipalities, such a huge burden. With this agenda at this late hour, I must say that this is unacceptable, that the settlements are burdened with the government and can be strongly linked to the 13th of October. It's not eligible. The Democratic Coalition can't support it. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-02-398	Thank you. Congressman Csaba Gyure, Jobbik!
u2019-12-02-399	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, this bill could clearly be binding on 13 October, and if there had not been such a change in the municipal area, this bill would probably never have been made. Since the current topic would be the summation of the amendment proposal, which in this case is not meaningful and contains basically only language positioning and editing changes, so obviously this is not what anyone has been talking about so far, but I would like to say one more sentence: basically, this rule violates municipal rights, as it is mainly a problem for the Municipality of Metropolitan City. The municipality had to pay more than half, since ticket and rent revenues did not account for half of the revenue. If this 10 billion losses go to the municipality, it will cause very serious financial problems. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary does not support, it affects not only the capital but also many other major cities. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-12-02-400	Thank you very much. Congressman Aradski has logged in every way, that's three: two minutes, but you can't do that; in order of business, but that's not why; so I appreciate your application for a normal speech. [[Defiance.]] And you can do that, here you go.
u2019-12-02-401	Thank you for your understanding, Mr. President. I was trying to withdraw my comment. [[Defiance.]] But I've been a congressman for almost nine years, and it looks like I haven't mastered the order of this device yet, but once I get the floor properly, thank you.
u2019-12-02-402	Here you go.
u2019-12-02-403	I just wanted to say that I listened carefully to Mr Hajdu's lamentations, and fortunately my wife put in a clean handkerchief, but I did not take it out as a man to shed tears for what she told me. The 13th of October did not need to be an example of this, so that local governments would be burdened with some kind of policy, a given parliamentary decision. I remember that I was a first-time municipal representative when the state suddenly ran out of money for 50 percent educators and other wage increases, public servants' wage increases after 2002 and in the period 2005-2006 simply said the government of the time, of which I believe you know its members, that here you are, municipalities, starting tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, financing the costs of the wage increase and no funds were added to it at that time. It was not 13 October 2019, but it was simply an irresponsible fiscal policy that led to such a practice. The other is that the settlements that so to speak use the means of public transport in the capital for their citizens to enter the capital, it is absolutely true that a large part of these settlements, in my constituency, all such settlements did pay this consideration to the capital. It is not, therefore, that the capital would give gifts to the agglomeration settlements, but would make an appropriate business deal with it, and either through the BKV, but would pay the price of this community transport. The other thing I think is very important to say is that the capital is burdened by the number of citizens from rural agglomeration, the roads and so on. But with all due respect, about 20,000 people from Érd go into the capital every day for nothing else to work for. If he's working, what does he do? He's producing the time parsing tax income for the capital. From this business tax income created by the residents of Érd, the city of Érd will not get a penny back. I'm not saying that this should change, just before we're very sorry about this difficult situation in the capital, let's take a look at the facts. So, from the point of view of all the elements of the relations, I must say that what Mr Hajdu has said is certain to have a reality, but does not, or hardly, stand the test of fairness and justice. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-12-02-404	Congressman László László Keresztes, LMP!
u2019-12-02-405	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President, and I apologise to everyone for asking for a word again, but I would like to respond or respond to the speech by Congressman Aradski. This is not only about the capital, but also about rural cities, and I will give you an example. Pécs is now about 145 thousand, but if you take it narrowly, it is still the center of a 170-175,000 agglomeration. Many thousands of people come to Pécs to work, study, and in no way contribute to the maintenance of public transport. This is a huge burden for the city. At the same time, would you say, Mr Aradski, that it is only Pécs or Debrecen or Kaposvár, and that the other cities of Szeged and the people who live there are responsible for financing public transport? Does the Fidesz government say that these cities or even cities have to pay 100% for public transport? That's an amazing attitude. I would like to ask either Mr State Secretary or the Member that this proposal has been discussed, for example, with the County City Association. For example, have you discussed with the city of Debrecen, the city of Kaposvár, what do you think about this proposal? [[22.10]] What do they say about the government's expectation that the business tax revenue will solve public transport, that it will solve public transport in such a way that we know precisely that it is an extremely important public service and that, without well-functioning public transport, it is impossible to imagine the operation of cities and that it is not expected that the maintenance of public transport will be profitable. It is not a forprofit service, it must be resolved, a very important public service, but it will never generate profit, nor should it strive to generate profit. However, there are very good good practices in many countries in this one-third funding system, and it is quite amazing that the government would abandon the municipalities in this respect. My question is specifically to any of you, Mr Secretary of State, Member, that you have knowledge that the stakeholders, let us put it this way, were consulted by the County City Association, and what was the position of this extremely important municipal association at that time. Thank you.
u2019-12-02-406	Thank you. Honourable Members, Anybody else want to tell me? [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Secretary of State, would you like to reflect? [[For signal:]] Here you go. Mr Schanda, Secretary of State, is the word.
u2019-12-02-407	Of course. Thank you. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Presents, Allow me, first of all, to thank you for what has been said in this debate, not only in this debate, but also in the previous one, because if I understand and perceive it correctly, then let me try to have a general debate here again, thank God, shorter than we did before, but at the same time allow me to respond very briefly to what has been said. First of all, I have to say that it is a municipal task at the moment, a mandatory task for the capital and a voluntary task for the other municipal authorities. As a result, we provide the capital city with HUF 12 billion a year, for municipal authorities, who are self-employed in providing local transport, even though we provide 2 billion HUF of funding by tender, which is available to them. In addition, we are helping to improve transport in the capital with countless other improvements. It is enough here to think about the support the government offers for metro renovations, and it is enough to think that the government decision, also mentioned by the Member, Mr Group leader, provides for the need for green buses, and the state will otherwise provide the necessary support for the purchase of green buses. The situation is, therefore, and let us be clear about that, in fact, for the municipalities, and especially for the Municipality of Metropolitan City, this does not mean any more adverse regulation, but only clarifies the existing legislative provisions. And it is a political situation and a clear situation that the government has repeatedly stated that what it has provided to the capital will continue to be ensured, so we can trust that if the former leadership of the capital has been able to solve local transport, then it will then be able to resolve the capital transport from the same amount of resources, with the same support, with the same opportunities as the current leadership of the capital. Here, allow me to reject, for this very reason, that this is an amendment linked to the municipal elections. This is a clarification proposal, in order to clarify and clarify the text of the law. The fact is that the use of local taxes is not intended to be spent on anything, local taxes can be spent on the tasks of the municipality, and it is therefore also important to clarify the situation by what it is primarily necessary, namely, that these revenues should be spent on the municipalities to ensure particularly important Community transport. The thing is, Mr. Group leader here had a question about how a government decision was implemented. With your permission, I must indicate that the Government has given several ministers a task which has not yet expired. Allow us first to report to the government on the completion of the task and then to the honourable Parliament and the honourable Member. I am confident that the rest of the Government's decision is reassuring to you, as it is about the new bus strategy, among other things, and it is about the implementation of the National Green Bus + model program and the strengthening of domestic bus production, which I think we can all agree is particularly important that we can further strengthen domestic bus production capacities. Dear Parliament, In addition to its questions concerning the amendment of the Law on Local Taxes, there are many other parts of the bill, this was only a minor part of the bill, even if the biggest debate was triggered by this passage both tonight and earlier in the trial. I trust, however, that the honourable Members and Members see that the fundamental purpose of the bill was, after all, to support the improvement of the quality of transport, the guarantee of its sustainability and thus the strengthening of the country's competitiveness and the further improvement of the quality of life and safety of Hungarian families. I would like to thank you for your opinion and for examining the bill in detail, and, if I have seen it correctly, there have been no substantive amendments to the transport sector, so we can also say that the technical objectives of the bill are largely agreed, there are some minor points of debate between us. I would like to thank you once again, in closing, for the comments made, and to spare us the opportunity to explain further elements of the bill in detail, and, if you agree, Mr President, I would like to thank you once again for the contributions and for the support of the bill. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-02-408	Thank you very much. There are many ways of getting a politician's sympathy, for example, if he doesn't talk much. [[Defiance.]] So I must say that, thanks for the speech, I will inform the Parliament that the decisions will take place at our later meeting. Now, Honourable Parliament, we have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. The speeches following the agenda will follow. First among these, Mr Tibor Nunkovics, representative of Jobbik, applied for a speech:, Let's look at what is called reality. Here you go.
u2019-12-02-409	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary, I hope you are not packing because you want to go, I hope you will listen to this question, in case I get an answer. Although the pro-government representatives of the Pilis Mountains often said during the campaigns how important they consider the construction of the M10 road to be, as this would help to reduce the increasing traffic that is driving the 10th route, the Vienna road every day. This would be the road that would link Budapest to Esztergom at the level of the highway, but unfortunately there is no progress on this subject. Even though every settlement is becoming increasingly uninhabitable along the road, even though you have to sit two hours in the traffic in the morning, no matter what the train is, people on buses are crowded, nothing happens. Instead, however, there will be an M100 road, with which the North-South, the Balkan transit routes and the Scandinavian routes will be connected, which I sign is that it is really an important economic step, and it will have to happen one day, but the order of importance would be different, but it would be good if the M10 road were to be built sooner, as the people on the ground would imagine. By the way, if anyone went to one of these settlements between 6:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. to, say, Pilisvörösvár, then you could see for yourself how unlivable this city is, how impossible normal transport is. Instead of a new route, however, people living in the Pilis region can get mines, mines to be reopened, some of which are connected by chance to Viktor Orbán and the family of Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, known as Dolomit Kft. could also be involved in these investments and in reopening. But the people who live here, dear fellow Members, will not allow it. [[22.20]] Just as the Pilisvörösvárians and the Pilissántós do not leave in these moments a quarry, a quarry closed thirty years ago between the two settlements, to be reopened and destroyed by their health and everyday life, nor will the Kesztölcs leave to open a quarry there, almost above their heads. And I, as I have always done, as a Member of Parliament in the region, will give them all the help I can to do so. It's a shame you left, Mr. Secretary, although I had a hunch you wouldn't wait. [[Defiance from Jobbik's ranks.]] The end, but I'm still going to ask you these questions, in case I ever get an answer in any way. I wanted to know when people in Pilis could finally get new investments instead of new quarryes that would serve their everyday lives. I am not referring to investments such as the 2nd railway line, the renovation of the Esztergom-Budapest railway line, which cost almost five times as much as it was originally planned, and became Europe's most expensive railway line, but rather investments that are valuable and will be made with or in the amount of money that is realistic. How many mines does the government plan to open in Pilis? What tricks, what tricks, are there, about issuing permits? Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-12-02-410	Thank you very much. After the agenda, MEP László Hajdu, representative of the Democratic Coalition, asked for a speech entitled "The Day of the People with Disabilities." Here you go.
u2019-12-02-411	Mr President, Tomorrow, December 3rd, is the World Disability Day. Until recently, people with disabilities have been thought of as suffering from a lack of ability, therefore regrettable, in need of support, or unlucky. The goal is to cure them, make them like the majority, turn them into them. In addition, Section XVII. Since the first century, physical isolation has become a practice and forced into institutions, which is not justified in any way, but as a result, the vast majority of society has hardly met with them, and as a natural consequence, prejudice, reprimand, shunned, ridiculed and excluded them. In the 70s of the last century, a change of attitude began, according to which the essence of disability is not a lack of ability, above all due to certain environmental and social obstacles, which make it difficult for people with disabilities to share in society's everyday life like others. It is not primarily about changing people with disabilities, it is about accessibility, removing all the barriers that prevent them from participating in society. Disability has thus become a human rights and emancipation issue, accepting that people with disabilities are equal, having the same rights as all other members of society and having the same obligations. Although the Republic of Hungary ratified the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities adopted in 1992 in 2007, progress back home is very slow. Think of simple, ordinary cases like how a fellow citizen in a wheelchair gets down to the subway, how a blind person takes money from the ATM, if the automatic is unable to communicate verbally, how to fill out a form that becomes necessary, if it is not available in the form of Braille, how to watch a deaf movie or a play if it is not written. Moreover, people with disabilities are not only victims of discrimination because of their situation, they often face prejudice, ridicule, conscious discrimination, and at that time we did not even mention multiple disabilities, in which deafness and blindness, for example, appear together. However, in the most difficult situation, the mentally disabled may still be there. In 1997 in my constituency, the XV. In the district, as mayor, I was approached by the wife of President Árpád Göncz, who was referred to as Mrs Zsuzsa. At that time, he brought together 36 civil society organizations dealing with intellectually injured people, created the ÉTA, the National Association of Social Organisations and Foundations serving Intellectual Injured persons, which now has 52 member organizations. Mrs Zsuzsa has come to me with the problem that the resulting alliance has no place to operate. On the basis of the decision of the body of representatives, in the district, we have established an institution where from kindergarten to our unit on day care for people with disabilities, we have set up organisations and institutions with foundational care. Since then, we have built one of the most modern institutions in the capital, and this is where this particular ÉTA took place 22 years ago. His national headquarters is here. Since then, the ÉTA has become a nationwide nonprofit public benefit organisation, under our estimate four to five thousand intellectually obstructed and multiplely damaged people, their family members and their employees and professionals, and it contributes to improving the quality of life of their interests and the provision of their services and their immediate environment. Thank you so much for letting me tell you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-12-02-412	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its meeting at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed. Good night, everyone.
