u2019-02-18-0	[[The pro-government representatives in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. The opposition and independent representatives will remain seated with the exception of János Volner and Dr. Erik Fülöp. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The first day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear House, I am fulfilling my sad duty to inform the Honourable Parliament: three of our former fellow Members have passed away in the past. Ferenc Kósa was a Member of the MSZP for four cycles from 1990 to 2006. He obtained his credentials from the Party's regional list in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county and Vas county and twice from his national list. During his time in Parliament, he worked for 16 years in the Committee on Culture and the Press, of which he was vice-president for 8 years. He was a dominant figure in Hungarian film production, and his activities were rewarded with numerous professional and lifetime prizes. He died in the 82nd year of Ferenc Kósa's life. István Garai Levente was a member of the Parliament between 1994 and 1998, then between 2004 and 2014. In the colours of the MSZP he obtained his mandate from the 5th constituency of Bács-Kiskun county and from the regional list of the county. Under his mandate, he assisted the Committee on Social and Health and Foreign Affairs. Between 2002 and 2010 he was deputy mayor of Kiskunfélegyháza. In addition to his political and public activities, he practiced as a doctor. He passed away 63rd year of his life. Mihály Kapronczi, former MP of the Independent Kisgazda Party and MIÉP, was a member of the Hungarian Parliament from 1994 until 2002. In 1994 the Independent Kis Farmer Party came to the Hungarian Parliament from the regional list of Hajdú-Bihar county, while in 1998 it came from the national list of the MIÉP. He was a member of the Committee on Culture and Press, Agriculture and Defence, and he was also a notary of the Parliament from 1998 to 2002. He died in the 72nd year of Michael Kapronczi's life. I would ask you to pay tribute to our fellow Members with silent standing. [[The people in this room pay tribute to the memory of the deceased.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, I declare that the 197 Members of Parliament, the national representative and the 11 ethnic spokespersons have submitted their own and their family's declarations of property within the deadline. Declarations of property are public in the case of Members and Speakers and can be viewed on the National Assembly's website. I declare that all Members of Parliament and advocates can exercise their rights. Dear House, I'll announce that the house rules are 3. On the basis of its section, Jobbik's group elected Mr.Péter Jakab as Deputy Group Leader from 11 February 2019. [[An intervention from the ranks of Fidesz: Iron Applause.]] Dear Parliament, Márton Gyöngyösi, leader of the group, applied for a pre-meeting speech:. How long does power abuse our patience? It's an address. I'll ask the government if anyone wants to respond to what's been said. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] If not, then it is now time for Congressman Bertalan Tóth, head of the MSZP Group: on current affairs. [[Dr. Bertalan Tóth and his fellow factions are leaving the Chamber. Delight and applause in the pro-government benches.]] After this meaningful but time-saving comment, we go on again. László Keresztes, leader of the LMP Group, will be following up on the current affairs. [[Dr. László Keresztes Lóránt and his fellow factions are leaving the Chamber. Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] will inform the target. [[13.10]] Now it's time for Mr. Péter Harrach's faction leader I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The family protection action plan with the title of the most generous... - most generous family support measure so far; I apologize for the slip of the tongue, here I am still under the influence of the shocking experience. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-18-1	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, If you'll excuse me, I'm gonna stay in the room and make my statement before the agenda, which is really about the family protection action plan, which we consider to be the most generous measure. KDNP has always been a priority for families. If we look at the purpose of this announcement, it is obvious that we need to put the facilitation of family formation and childbearing first, but it is also understandable that an increase in childbearing will also be among the intentions. Perhaps a few words about the mental background should be said first. Now that the European Parliament elections are approaching, it is obvious to us that there are two sides, and these two political sides have two ideals, which are difficult to penetrate. One party thinks in a individual; we are not them, because we think in person and in the family, and the family is usually the communities, places where the individual finds himself, where he forms himself, and in the family the child can become a healthy adult. Perhaps it is worth referring in one sentence to the revelations that accompanied this plan, partly at home and partly in Europe. Since no reasonable argument can be made against it, these statements are either personal or abusive. But they certainly reflect, especially in Western Europe, whether political or expert opinions, the world that we can safely say comes from representatives of a tired ideology, a tired culture, who in Western Europe commit their own suicide by calmly handing over their own culture and their own population to the rule of another culture and a strong, aggressive population. And this includes these revelations, which have one thing in common, and this is that there are enough immigrants, then why do Hungarian children need them. We think family policy will solve the demographic situation. Maybe it's worth talking about what we consider family. The family is based on the finding of a man and a woman, the unconditional dedication and unreserved acceptance that determines the loving relationship between the two people, and that gives the family an atmosphere that is suitable for raising the child, and that is how the child can become a healthy adult. When this seven-point family plan went public, all the good people welcomed it. I would like to highlight some of this in order to bring this back to the public. The start of a family life is supported by childbearing support for young married couples, which means a loan of approximately HUF 10 million free of interest, and with the child's commitment the repayment is partially suspended, partly released. I believe that this is a joy for all young family-foundings, just as the introduction of grandparents is a joy for the older generation. If you create a home, an extension of the interest-supported housing loan to the used apartment is also good news. We could, of course, talk about the daycare program or car shopping or the income tax exemption - that is something everyone will experience. I believe that this is a good news for the Hungarian families and for the entire Hungarian society. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-18-2	Thank you. I'm asking the government if anyone wants to react. [[For signal:]] Secretary Katalin Novak, please.
u2019-02-18-3	[[His mic's not working.]] Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, I don't know if you can hear it...
u2019-02-18-4	No, I can't. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State Katalin Novák...
u2019-02-18-5	I'll try again. Is that okay? That's good. Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, Now that we are in a family circle, let's talk about important issues, support for families, support for the birth of children, and help to have children. As the leader of the faction started with the ideological foundations, I'd like to start with that. What is this seven-point family protection action plan about, and what is it about the construction that we have been continuing since 2010? It is about having children, perhaps nothing like happiness. Happiness is nothing like that, but it is obvious, with financial burdens and challenges. We want to reduce these financial burdens, financial obstacles, and to avoid young people who are having children. We can be optimistic, because Hungarian young people are family-centric, think about family, want to get married, live in marriage, and want to raise children. It is therefore our job to remove these obstacles, as they face them, if they are prepared in a responsible way to bear children, to raise children. [[13.20]] And for those who are already raising children, let us help to reduce the burden. Mr. Fraction Manager also mentioned Western criticisms. I'd like to refer back to two things here. One of them is that a lot of people are making reports about Hungary recently, and there are different compilations about what life is like in Hungary. I would like to highlight some of these very critical elements. In Hungary, the church is full of white people. It's an outrageous thing in itself. The working parents of three children do not pay taxes. As if they were tax frauds, they wouldn't pay taxes. They were able to build their house thanks to the CSOK support. And even if it weren't enough that they didn't pay taxes or pay a small amount of taxes, they were supported to build their house, they would also say that they could finance their vacation with state aid. In particular, they set an example: those who could go to Gyula with the whole family thanks to the Elizabeth program. These are outrageous things for the West, which we are doing here in Hungary, and that is why, for example, the Swedish Minister spoke of Nazism with outrage, when their principle friends, and those with whom they sit in a parliamentary bench in the European Parliament, were just colliding with the far right in Hungary. So I don't know what's in the Western mind, but I think it's worth sweeping around their own house and tidying up. If we look at our own results, then we can say that 20 years ago, the number of marriages has not been as high as they are now, and 20 years ago, there hasn't been as much childbearing as it has been in recent years. So we can say that Hungary has moved in a positive direction. And it is at least as important that not only the desire to have children, the desire to marry, but also those who raise children, should face the risk of poverty less. Today, childbearing is less of a poverty risk than it was ten years ago. That is why we have moved on, which is why we have launched a national consultation on the protection of families, which, I can also say, has triggered unexpected interest, nearly 1.4 million people have completed the national consultation questionnaires and have responded with a unanimous yes to the fact that we see the Hungarian future in Hungarian children. That is why the government has decided to launch a seven-point family protection operation, which is a next stage of construction, and we will continue to do so in the future. About the concrete steps. On the one hand, we help young people by means of an unprecedented instrument that also supports those who do not yet have an independent income or a family background that enables them to start their own lives. Therefore, we provide them with a discount loan of HUF 10 million free of interest. It helps them to start a family. And let's tell you right away, this loan of HUF 10 million can become entirely a subsidy, so you may not have to pay it all back. The CSOK system has been extended, the loan has been made available for the purchase of used property, and we have also moved on to the release of loans, as families with two children can now use the loan release of HUF 1 million compared to the previous one, as well as HUF 4 million for the next child, for the third child, and HUF 1 to 1 million for each additional child, if this is an outstanding mortgage with real estate collateral. This has never been in Hungary. We provide car shopping support to children with at least three children in the amount of HUF 2.5 million. And think, fellow Members, that in Hungary the mother who had four children or raised four children will never pay a single penny of personal income tax. I think it's something we can be proud of. Thank you for your support for our actions, and I trust this support when it comes to the vote on the law, including from the opposition. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-18-6	Dear House, It is now up to Mrs Szabó Timea, Head of the Group, on behalf of the Dialogue: on current affairs. [[Szabó Timea is not in the Chamber.]] He's already said his comment. We're going one more way. And Congresswoman Ágnes Vadai did the same on behalf of DK with the title "I." [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai is not in the Chamber.]] The final statement before the agenda follows: Máté Kocsis, Head of the Fidesz Group, will talk about our common affairs. Here you go.
u2019-02-18-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Well, today, we've learned all the valuable thoughts you can learn in the minds of the opposition. They told me all about what they think about the world and the affairs of the country today. It is an interesting genre to comment before the agenda, as one is also preparing to respond not only to the events of the past period, but also to what has been said today. The space we have here is painful, because we would have a great deal in common with the opposition. There are only a few selfies left between the benches as a sort of opposition magic wand over the past few years. If I may, I would, in their absence, only to a very small extent, go into these areas. However, perhaps one of the decisive issues for our country is that, in addition to our many daily, weekly and parliamentary sessions, Europe is preparing for elections to the European Parliament, and positions in Europe as well as at home have been crystal clear. It is necessary, I know, that it is not justified, but it is still necessary to refer to what the opposition leader Ferenc Gyurcsány read in his recent so-called study, in which he announced the pro-immigration programme on the eradication of nation states, the removal of borders, the surrender of our culture and customs. As he puts it, either we go to global government or we die. It is almost no longer worth mentioning that this study is a kind of literary translation of the Soros study. Meanwhile, during the weekend, our socialist neighbors visited and held campaign briefings with Frans Timmermans, Brussels' elite pro-immigration pro-immigration pro-immigration pro-immigration pro-immigration pro-immigration pro-immigration pro-immigration pro-migrant, who personally contributed to bringing the mandatory quotas, the migrant visa, the migrant card to finance migrants, the plan to weaken national border protection, and the legalisation of economic migration through African pilot programmes. It was also active in punishing countries that do not want to participate in all of this. And honourable opposition, pro-immigration colleagues who are not here, we are actually facing each other in full, because, contrary to the foregoing, we want to make a change in Brussels policy. We believe that greater emphasis should be placed on protecting our borders, our culture and our customs. We want to live in a European community based on the cooperation of equal nations, and we want to see European leaders who do not want any more migration. Not only is Frans Timmermans, but even those like him not welcome in European decision making, since in the last four years it has become clear to anyone that where Europe is going, it is not the right direction and dangerous. Meanwhile, at home the same opposition, the opposition motivated by European pro-immigration, sees public institutions as an adventure park, smacks itself to the stomach, and, in the absence of anything to be said, encourages the Hungarians to violence in the street - here I return to the words of Ferenc Gyurcsány. I would have been happy to ask Mr Gyöngyösi Group leader about his statement that, in order to gain power, they would have joined forces with the devil, the devil's mother. I understand the devil's mother, but is that the wording of Congressman Gyöngyösi also true of Ferenc Gyurcsány? And I would have asked them what else the right-wingers and left-wing pro-immigration opposition politicians could do to gain money and power. It is quite clear that the coalition, the uncredited and extremely absurd coalition that forms between the left and Jobbik, is not only uncredited and absurd, but also carries the danger that Hungarian history has suffered many times. The coalition of red shirts and brown shirts doesn't offer much. And it is true not only at home, but also in Europe. I also wondered what Mr. Bertalan Tóth would say about Frans Timmermans' weekend words about joining forces with the far right. We do not have this debate in a single speech or in a response, but we do not have a way. That's why I thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-18-8	Mr. Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond on behalf of the government. Here you go. [[13.30]]
u2019-02-18-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Since today is the first meeting this year, I think it is appropriate for me to report for the first time on some of the results that affect the lives of many Hungarians. I could also say that it is worth looking at what results the opposition has turned its back on today, one by one. Firstly, employment remains a record, unemployment has fallen to 3.6 percent, the economy is growing around 5 percent, while public debt is on a declining path. It is no coincidence that the Standard & Poor was upgraded to Hungary a few days ago. The minimum wage has risen again in January, which means a doubling overall compared to 2010, while the tax relief for two children has increased to 40,000. The tax on small businesses has been reduced, and those who care for their sick child at home are now receiving 100 thousand forints. While the opposition ran up and down during the last meeting in December, the majority in favour of the government adopted this measure and has now entered into force. It has also been decided that in the years ahead, health professionals will receive more than 70% wage increases. The Prime Minister also announced a family protection operation that could help hundreds of thousands more. And that's not all, because every high school student will have the opportunity to study foreign languages twice for two weeks with the state paying for the costs. And finally, this 10th point, today we also know that 2018 has been the best year of tourism in Hungary so far, we have never had as many guests as last year. This shows that Hungary is a good place. We believe that these results are a picture of a growing country. Yes, but these results can be maintained when there is security. That is why we believe it is important to inform the Hungarians about the migration plans that threaten this, which are in the drawers or are on the negotiating tables. For example, they continue to force resettlement. In addition to the migrant card, they want to introduce a migrant visa, take part of border protection rights from the Member States, give more money to activist groups supporting immigration, while less to countries against migration. And if there is no one to take action against these plans, then they will be implemented, and then in the form of Europe, as we know it, we think that coffee has been brewed. We do not want to let that happen, so we would like to inform the public. We are doing this because the pro-immigration opposition has very much supported these plans - they deny it at home and they vote for it in Brussels. Dear House, The question then arises as to what the opposition has added to the affairs and everyday struggles of the country. The short answer is a failed, leaky sock revolution. The longer it is, a few selfie sticks, a glass tiger act, an obscene slogan, a bunch of illegal action, and today empty chairs. They always refer to the workers, but the work here in Parliament is denied. In this connection, I would like to say that there seems to be a competition among the opposition. They think that there is a constant need to fight in this competition, and in this, it seems to them that includes breaking up the parliamentary work. We're gonna watch these opposition fights, but we're gonna listen to them. We are listening because we would also like to give respect to those who did not honor us with their trust, who did not vote for us. That's because we work for them. We are asking the opposition, although we may not be in a position to ask for anything, but we are asking them to give respect to those who expect work, representation and substantive proposals from them here in Parliament. It's a free country, you're free to clown around, and you have the freedom to make an alliance between little soldiers and eye-shooters, but no one is above the law. Not even opposition representatives. And anyway, neither clowning nor lawlessness will cover up the lack of substantive proposals, work done, and principles. So, for this work, for this struggle, we wish everyone a great deal of strength for the spring session, and for Hungary to be patient with the upcoming and ongoing opposition productions. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-02-18-10	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2019-02-18-11	Dear Parliament, Péter Ungár, LMP; Péter Ovádi, Fidesz. Speaking before the agenda on Tuesday, representatives: Márton Gyöngyösi, Jobbik; Timea Szabó, Dialogue; Péter Ungár, LMP; László Varju, DK; Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP; László Varga, MSZP; László Böröcz, Fidesz. On Tuesday he applied for a speech after the agenda: Péter Ungár, LMP; László György Lukács, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik. On Wednesday he applied for a speech after the agenda: Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik.
u2019-02-18-12	Dear House, I would like to inform you that representatives of Sándor Lezsák, Mónika Bartos, Zoltán Bóna, Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, Sándor Font, Sándor Kovács, Jenő Manninger, Attila Tilki and Zsolt V. Németh formed a group of national forum representatives. According to the house rules, the formation of the group does not affect their membership of the faction. I declare that at the initiative of the Fidesz Group, the credentials of the representatives and the oath will take place directly after the day-to-day agenda of the meeting has been adopted. Dear Parliament, President János Áder sent the Parliament transcripts on the termination of State Secretary's mandates and the appointment of new State Secretarys. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the transcripts of the President of the Republic.
u2019-02-18-13	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (paragraph 4) (j) of the Fundamental Law, CXXV of 2018 on government administration. Law 283 § 4 (b) and XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the government and State Secretarys. Law 55. On the proposal of the Prime Minister, I relieved Attila Aszódi, State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office, with effect from 15 January 2019. Budapest, 11 January 2019 Sincerely: Mr János Áder, Mr.László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (paragraph 4) (j) of the Fundamental Law, CXXV of 2018 on government administration. Law 283 § 4 (b) and XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the government and State Secretarys. Law 52. On the basis of paragraph 2 of the Act, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, with effect from 1 February 2019, I appointed Pál Kovács as State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office. Budapest, 31 January 2019 Sincerely: János Áder Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (paragraph 4) (j) of the Fundamental Law, CXXV of 2018 on government administration. Law 283 § 4 (b) and XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the government and State Secretarys. Law 55. On the proposal of the Prime Minister, pursuant to Article 5 of the Act, Dr. Márton Örsöt Bitay, State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, was relieved of his mandate with effect from 18 February 2019. In addition, Article 9 (four) (j) of the Fundamental Law, the 2018 CXXV on Government Administration. Law 283 § 4 (b) and XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the government and State Secretarys. Law 52. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of the Act, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, with effect from 19 February 2019, I appointed Péter Zambo as State Secretary of the Agricultural Ministry. Budapest, 15 February 2019 Sincerely: János Áder
u2019-02-18-14	Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of the Parliament and myself, to congratulate the Secretary of State and wish you every success in your work. I would like to inform you that no consensus was reached at last week's meeting of the House Committee on the proposed working schedule of the 2019 Spring Session of the Parliament, and therefore Parliamentary Act 13. Pursuant to paragraph 6 of Section 6 of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the working order. The working schedule was available to my fellow Members on the website. I would like to inform you that Parliamentary Act 13. Pursuant to paragraph 7 of Section 7 of the Act, one representative and the first independent representative are entitled to a maximum of three minutes' contributions. I'll ask you if you want to live with it. [[There's no such signal.]] In accordance with paragraph 2 of this Article, one representative per group of representatives and the first independent representative to be heard shall be entitled to a maximum of three minutes' contributions. I'll ask you if you want to live with it. (No such indication.) [[13.40]] If there is no application, then the decision will now take place. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the proposed working schedule of the spring session. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare that the House has adopted the working order by 106 votes in favour, 4 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the government has submitted a legislative programme for the spring session, which interested parties have been able to learn on the IT network. The State Audit Office has presented its recommendation to this effect, which can also be accessed through the IT network. At the House Committee meeting, all factions agreed that, in the same way as previous practice, Parliament should adopt speeches outside the agenda and a derogation from house rules in relation to issues during the interpellation period. The proposal for a derogation from the house rules was made by H/4497. You can get to know him on the website. I would like to ask you to explain this to me, notary Dezső Believing.
u2019-02-18-15	Dear Parliament, At the spring session of 2019 - if you adopt your agenda for several weeks - the National Assembly will adopt its agenda in accordance with Article 18 of the HSZ. When dealing with exceptional matters within the meaning of Article 5 of the Rules of Procedure, it shall depart from the provisions of the Rules of Procedure in such a way that, on behalf of the Group, its leader or the member of the Group invited by him - the HSZ 18. In addition to the possibilities provided for in paragraph 5 of Section 5 of the Rules of Procedure, the Speaker shall be entitled to notify the Speaker in writing not later than one hour before the opening of the first sitting of the second week. [[Representatives of Jobbik, some independent Members, Krisztina Hohn, Antal Csárdi and László Hajdu, return to the Chamber.]] In the context of the negotiation of exceptional matters under paragraph 1 of this Article, the Commission shall derogate from the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Decision by providing that, on behalf of the Group, its leader or the group member invited by him - the HSZ 18. In addition to the possibilities provided for in paragraph 5 of Section 5 of the Rules of Procedure, the Speaker shall be entitled to notify the Speaker in writing not later than one hour before the opening of the first sitting of the second week. (The representatives of Jobbik, some independent Members, Krisztina Hohn, Antal Csárdi and László Hajdu are returning to the Chamber. ) 2. During the discussion of the questions, it shall depart from the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Decision in such a way that, at the meeting on the second week of the sitting, the issue containing the item on the agenda of the questions may be discussed only, which has been submitted at 9.30 a.m. on the working day preceding the sitting.
u2019-02-18-16	Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, four-fifths of the Members present need a vote in favour. I ask the House whether H/4497 will contribute. For derogations from house rule No 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House unanimously adopted a derogation from the house rules by 126 votes in favour. Dear Parliament, At last week's meeting, the House Committee agreed that the Parliament should, at its meeting today, depart from the rules of the House by saying that Félix Farkas is a Roma minority spokesperson prior to his decision on the agenda,. ! The House Rule 18 of the Decision is entitled "The House Rule of Law." It may speak for a period of five minutes by the application of paragraph 5 of this Article. The proposal for a derogation from the house rules was made by H/4506. can also be found on the website. Dear Parliament, I ask the House whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The House unanimously adopted a derogation from the house rules by 108 votes in favour. Now, in accordance with the derogation from the adopted house rule, [[György Szilágyi: Four fifths, Mr. President. Mr. President, four fifths! We need four fifths of the people present.]] Félix Félix Farkas is speaking before the agenda in a five-minute period of time: å Has the truth come to light? ! It's an address. Speaker, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2019-02-18-17	Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen. Let the gypsies come, I'll kill everyone! Tamás Sneider, President of Jobbik, who was just on the left, said this on a recording a few weeks ago. [[Interviews from the ranks of Fidesz: Shame!]] Anyone who knows the party president's work so far is certainly not surprised by these words, as he was also the one who beat up an Eger disabled person in 1991 because of its Roma origin. At the same time, similar thoughts were expressed, and he said: "If I have to, I will kill everyone! Did you mean the non-Gypsies, Congressman? [[György Szilágyi: Four fifths of all present, Mr President.]] I dare not tell you how you feel about pensioners, according to a recent recording. Have you thought about them? In Hungary, all Roma lived in fear in the 1990s when skinheads walked around the country and regularly harassed their countrymen, often physically assaulting their countrymen just because their skin color was darker. Can you imagine that it wasn't so long ago that someone might have been attacked by a baseball bat just because he's a gypsy? In the early nineties, groups led by Roys and Führers started out of hobby, looking for the Roma and hitting their faces and bodies solely because of racial prejudice. According to the news, Tamás Sneider also played a leading role in these communities. Then came the time when the street groups were formalized and a political party formed in this view called Jobbik. Later came the Hungarian Guard Traditional Cultural Association and the Hungarian Guard Movement, which it created, and I would like to stress that this is all during socialist governance. At this time, the Hungarian Guard marches around with impunity, offends, frightens people, and, if necessary, not only Roma. Yet, the most painful of the painful memories was the period of the 2008-2009 Roma killings, when within 14 months six of our fellow citizens were victims of extreme killers. These killers have been serving their deserved prison time ever since. Even then, there was a vague suspicion that the socialists and Jobbik might not even be enemies, as it may seem to be an outsider. This is now clear, since there are joint events, common ideas and common political activity on both sides. The left-wing assembly is still not separate from Jobbik's ideology, when Sneider's wife greets the guests at their wedding in an unmistakable manner. [[Tamás Sneider: That's not true either!]] Not only is it not secluded, I feel that more people are even looking for an acquittal, but there is no acquittal, there is no excuse. Humiliating another person, assaulting another person in human dignity, crushing someone in the mud, is a sin in itself that makes the present president of Jobbik unworthy of sitting here in the House of the Country. You should at least give up your parliamentary mandate, as you did quite rightly recently, by a fellow party bragging about the abuse of a Jewish woman. Tamás Sneider says that there is currently an incitement to his family. There's been a legal judgment in this case. It's not inciting. Those are the facts. What about the Roma who've been beaten and beaten for years? Fortunately, this cannot happen today, because Hungary and its current government protect their nationalities, including us, the Roma. I do not know if you have read the Roman Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms or the International Convention for the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination adopted in New York, 1965 and the Fundamental Law of Hungary, the Law on Equal Treatment and the Promotion of Equal Opportunities? Unfortunately, more and more recent recordings show that Jobbik is showing his true face, his extremely anti-Roma and Jewish approach, over and over again. You never change. Would left-wing representatives who call themselves liberals be able to make an alliance with this thinking in order to gain power? Are they able to identify with that view? Think about it. Although this is not really for you to think about, it is for the voters. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-02-18-18	I'm asking the representatives of the government if anyone wants to answer. [[There's no candidate.]] If not, the agenda for our meeting starting today will be set. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. We are now deciding on the amendments to the agenda. The Fidesz Group proposed that on Monday's meeting, the parliamentary report by the President of the Curia on the adoption of the report on the activities of the Curia in 2017 entitled "Supporting a Legal Unit and Local Government Normal Control" H/3607. No decision shall be taken at this meeting. Anyone who agrees with that, give me a raise. [[Vote.]] I see that the visible majority of this House has adopted the proposal. [[13.50]] The Fidesz Group proposed that on Tuesday's meeting of the Parliament on the Maecenas Universitatis Corvini Foundation, the Maecenas Universitatis Corvini Foundation and the Corvinus University of Budapest, T/4514. Law No. 1 and the 2011 CCIV on National Higher Education. T/4516. The joint general debate on bill No 1 shall take place as the first item on the agenda until closure. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. The Fidesz Group also proposes that, on Tuesday's meeting of the Parliament, the T/4069 on the publication of the Convention on the Mutual Protection of Protected Industrial Qualified Data between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Turkey. The general debate on bill No 1 shall take place as the last item on the agenda until closure. Anyone who agrees with that should also raise their hands. [[Vote.]] I note that the visible majority of this House also agrees with this proposal. We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the House whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I note that the visible majority of this House has adopted the agenda. Mr. Márton Gyöngyösi, Head of the Group, pressed a button on a point of order, as I see it.
u2019-02-18-19	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. I would like to point out that, according to the rules of the house - Félix Farkas - the speaker can speak in accordance with the rules of the house only if four fifths of those present vote in favour. If you look at the vote on Parliament.hu, the Members present here, whose cards were inside and voting, were registered as present by the system. So we were inside, our card was inside, we didn't press the button, Wolf Felix couldn't get a word in. I would like to ask Mr President that the house rules, at least the rules that this House is making and which Fidesz is voting for, should at least comply with them. This kind of arbitrary interpretation of house rules is what we protested here before the agenda when we left this room, because we believe that you are violating the rule of law and Hungarian parliamentarianism with this type of arbitrary interpretation of legislation, so I would like to ask you to convene Mr President [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the House Committee so that we can discuss this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-02-18-20	The House Committee meeting will naturally be convened at the right time. You can turn to the committee on points of order, and otherwise you are wrong. Those who take part in the vote are present. Sending equipment to the football game on the field may be possible, but this is not part of the game. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Márton Gyöngyösi: This is not socialism! It's a lot of noise. A voice from Jobbik's benches: This is not the party state! You're sick people! Interview from the benches of Fidesz: Read the house rules!]] Congressman, refrain from insulting me because I have a good ear, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, despite their persistent efforts, the Hungarian Parliament will not descend to the spiritual standard where you are at the moment. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. A voice from Jobbik's benches: Of course, you agree with that! That's okay.]] Now, then, the certificates of mandate and the oaths of their representatives will follow. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the National Election Committee has issued a parliamentary mandate to Mr.István Hollik on the common list of the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association and the Christian Democratic People's Party, as well as to Mr.Gábor Staudt and Mr.István Szávay, who had resigned on 31 January 2019, gave your parliamentary seats to Mr.Tamás Mozgalom Csányi and Mr.János Bencsik for Jobbik Hungary. The committee for the examination of mandates met before the meeting and examined, on the basis of the electoral documents, the regularity of the credentials of Mr István Hollik, Mr János Bencsik and Mr Tamás Csányi. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr János Harghitai, who has given the result of the examination of mandates in accordance with Article 9 of the Rules of Procedure. He shall report to the Parliament in accordance with paragraph 2 of Section 2.
u2019-02-18-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, At its meeting, the Committee examined the mandate of the candidates. It has been established that the authorised nominating organisations have made the marking. The National Election Committee has issued the mandates to the candidates. All the possible documents have been submitted by each Member to the committee for examining mandates, so we have established that there are no obstacles to the exercise of their mandate; with the remark that, in the case of Mr Hollik, there is still a conflict of interest, so that he cannot exercise his mandate in substance until he has lifted it. So we propose that the mandate be certified by the House for all three Members. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Martin Gyöngyösi intervenes. Some opposition representatives are returning to the Chamber.]]
u2019-02-18-22	Dear House, The mandates will now take place. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a proposal amending the reports on the outcome of the mandate examination could not be submitted. The seats shall be certified separately by the Parliament without debate. For the first time, I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament whether it justifies István Hollik's mandate. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House unanimously confirmed Mr István Hollik's mandate by 145 votes in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it justifies the mandate of János Bencsik. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House unanimously confirmed the mandate of Mr János Bencsik, with 144 votes in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it justifies the mandate of Tamás Csányi. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the House also unanimously confirmed Mr Tamás Csányi's mandate by 144 votes in favour. Dear House, Now the solemn oath of the elected representatives and the signature of the oaths. I ask Members István Hollik, János Bencsik and Tamás Csányi to come to the center of the room and take the oath. I'd like to ask Mr. Lajos Szűcs to read the words of the oath. Members of Parliament, in accordance with our custom, are asked to stand up and listen to this. [[The people in this room stand up. István Hollik, Tamás Csányi and János Bencsik step into the center of the room. Dr. Lajos Szűcs reads the words of the oath.]]
u2019-02-18-23	I, István Hollik/Tamás Csányi/János Bencsik vow that I will be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, keep its laws and keep them with others; I will exercise my office as Members of Parliament for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God.
u2019-02-18-24	Dear House, The oath papers will now be signed. I ask Mr Attila Móring to prepare the oath papers for signature and the elected Members to sign them. [[It's happening. Attila Móring, who signed the oath document, congratulates the sworn representatives and gives a copy of the signed oath document. The first Members to take the oath were István Happily, Lóránt László Keresztes, Olivio Kocsis-Cake, Márton Gyöngyösi, Antal Csárdi, Péter Harrach, Dr. Máté Kocsis, Imre Ritter. Applause.]] [[14.00]] Dear Parliament, Allow me to wish the new Members of Parliament effective work and good luck on behalf of Parliament and myself. I would also like to announce that the number of Members of Parliament is 199 again. As has been said from the mouth of the chairman of the committee for the examination of mandates, I would like to inform you that, in line with the statement made by Mr Hollik István, there is a conflict of interest against him, so that he cannot exercise his rights arising from his mandate as a representative until it is terminated or until the termination of his mandate is initiated, nor is he entitled to remuneration. Dear Parliament, In the absence of a committee agreement, on the basis of the motion tabled by the President, we now decide on the Commission's discussion and decision-making of the proposals. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Parliamentary Report on the activities of the Committee of National Remembrance in 2017 B/4006 invites the designated Judicial Committee. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has asked the Committee with 115 votes in favour, 20 against and no abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it invites the designated National Defence and Police Committee to carry out the defence tasks in 2017 and to prepare, state and development of the Hungarian Defence Forces. B/4064. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House also asked the Committee with 115 votes in favour, 24 against and no abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it invites the designated Economic Committee, B/4071, on the implementation of the National Development - 2030 National Development and Regional Development Concept. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has asked the committee to take a decision by 114 votes in favour, 29 against and without abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether he will ask the designated National Defence and Police Committee. The B/4478 B/4478 on risk analyses, the state of preparation for the fight against disasters and the protection of the major natural disasters in Hungary in 2015-2017 and man-made disasters. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The House asked the Committee to take its decision by 114 votes in favour, 29 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. It follows the T/1656 Convention between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on cooperation and mutual assistance in the event of disasters. Final vote of bill No 1. The rapporteur is T/1656/2. has submitted an adjustment, which is available on the network. Since no amendment has been proposed to summarise the proposal, we are now deciding on an adapted text of the proposed legislation. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/1656 accepts it. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House unanimously adopted the bill by 142 votes in favour. It follows that H/3896 on the adoption of the 2017 report by the President of the National Court of Justice. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the House whether it accepts H/3896. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the resolution proposal was adopted by 117 votes in favour, 28 against and without abstentions. H/3895 on the adoption of a report on the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office in 2017. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the House whether it accepts H/3895. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The proposal for a resolution was adopted by the House with 117 votes in favour, 28 against and no abstentions. We're about to discuss and decide on an immunity matter. I would like to inform you that the Pest Central District Court is the 9th Bpk.50.427/2018/2. In his order No. 13, Gyula Budai applied for the suspension of the immunity of the Members of Parliament of Fideszes in a private charge. I gave this to the immunity committee to examine it. At its meeting on 12 February 2019, the immunity committee decided and proposed to the Parliament the H/4530. Mr Gyula Budai did not suspend the immunity of the Members of Parliament. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. However, before that, I give the floor to János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee, who intends to justify the committee's proposal orally, within a five-minute time frame.
u2019-02-18-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As has been said, Gyula Budai's case was discussed by the immunity committee. He was a private individual who filed a charge of insubordination, defamation of defamation. The immunity committee unanimously decided, as it has been dealing with these matters for a long time, because it is a private case, and otherwise, the speech that Gyula Budai has made on this subject has been made in the political space of the matter concerning Csaba Czeglédy, the immunity committee unanimously took the view that we should stick to the practice that we have done so far, and that we do not intend to issue the immunity of the Member in private cases. That's what I propose to the House. Thank you. [[A rare applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2019-02-18-26	Dear House, The decision will now take place. I would like to remind you that the committee has taken a position that the Member's immunity will not be suspended by the Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of Gyula Budai. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House did not suspend Mr. Gyula Budai's immunity by 22 votes in favour, 117 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with disciplinary decisions. I would like to inform you that the Parliamentary Act 51/A. According to paragraph 1 of Article 13 of the Act of Accession of the Republic of Croatia, the Court of Justice of the European Union shall have jurisdiction to rule on the application of Article 13 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 13 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 13 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 13 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. I have ordered a reduction in the due fees of Bence Tordai, Dialogue and Representative, acting under the authority of the President (paragraph 6) of the Act. The representative asked the immunity committee to repeal the decision, but the committee did not allow it to do so. Next, the Act on Parliament 51/A. Pursuant to Section 9 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Member has requested that the Speaker's decision be annulled. In view of this, the house rules are 148. § 2 (2) I have tabled a proposal for a decision H/4605. I have the same content as my previous decision to reduce the Member's due fee. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the proposal for a resolution, the related decision of the Speaker of the House, the representative's request in this regard and the decision of the immunity committee were made available on the website. [[14.10]] Dear House, In accordance with the provisions of the house rules, no proposal or Commission report may be submitted to amend the proposal for a decision. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that if the Speaker's decision is annulled by the Parliament, the Member's due fees will not be reduced, the Parliament Act 51/A. The proceedings brought against him pursuant to paragraph 1 of Section 1 shall be terminated. The Speaker's decision to reduce the fee is decided by the Parliament without discussion. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the decision of the Speaker of the House to reduce the due fee for Bence Torda is maintained in its scope by H/4605. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House maintained the decision by 118 votes to 28, with 1 abstention. I now ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the text of the adopted decision on the Member of Bence Torda.
u2019-02-18-27	The Parliament is the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. Act, hereinafter referred to as "Ogytv'. , 51/A. Acting under the authority of paragraph 13 of Section 13 of the Act, Bence Tordai, Member of the Parliament of Ogytv. 51/A. On the basis of the request of the President of the Parliament pursuant to paragraph 9 of Section OE-41/794-1/2018. Bence Tordai maintains his decision to reduce his due fee, thereby reducing the due fee of Bence Tordai, MP's due fee by HUF 504 900.
u2019-02-18-28	Dear House, The election of the notary of the Parliament will follow. On 10 December 2018, István Szávay, Mr. Jobbikos, resigned as notary. On the initiative of Mr Márton Gyöngyösi, the Speaker S/4586. Mr László György Lukács was proposed by the Parliament as a member of Parliament. An amendment to the motion cannot be tabled; Parliament shall decide on the official without debate. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it elects Mr László György Lukács as the notary of the Parliament. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare that the House unanimously elected László György Lukács as notary with 144 votes in favour. Thank you. Allow me to congratulate you on your election and wish you every success in your work on behalf of Parliament and myself. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Thank you.]] Dear Parliament, It follows a decision on Commission officials and members. S/4587 put forward by the President You can find out more about this on the website. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts S/4587. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The House unanimously adopted the personal proposal by 148 votes in favour. It follows a series of 5/2018 on the establishment of parliamentary committees, the election of its officials and members. S/4505 amending the parliamentary decision Decision on the proposal No 1. S/4505 put forward by the President You can find out more about this on the website. Now it's time for the decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts S/4505. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the personal proposal was adopted by the House by 124 votes to 25, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Now, at 2:14 p.m., we move on to interpellation and immediate questions. [[The opposition representatives will withdraw from the Chamber and the independent representatives will remain in their seats. Noise.]] Tamás Pintér, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance:, Let's send a message to the Government and the multinationals: in Hungary, trade unionism and the interests of workers must be respected! It's an address. Mr Tamás Pintér has the floor. If anyone else catches up with him in the hallway, let him know he's the one who's gonna have to do the interpellation. [[Defiance from the benches of the governing parties.]] In view of the fact that the interpellation has to be submitted in writing, I understand that the government's reply does not preclude the lack of oral comment on the question. So I'm going to ask the government if you'd like to respond orally to the unspoken but written interpellation. [[Sándor Bodó says no.]] He doesn't want to answer. László Varga, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance:. The strike mood in the country is increasing! This is what we see in the room, by the way. [[Defiance from the benches of the governing parties.]] As I see it, Mr President, you are also physically prevented from expressing your interpellation. Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Innovation and Technology:. Why are Széchenyi's work burned to dust? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[For signal:]] I would like to inform this House that my interpretation was wrong. If the interpellation does not occur, it shall be considered withdrawn under the house rules. Now, I'm going to introduce you to the withdrawn interpellations. So Márta Demeter LMP representative submitted an interpellation to the Minister for the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant without a wallet:, When does the government admit that Paks 2 has failed? It's an address. His interpellation has been withdrawn. Sándor Burány, representative of the Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. Protest against the new flight path! with a title, which was also withdrawn by the Member. It is now time for Mr Kristóf Szatmáry Fideszes, who submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice, when can we put an end to the billion-dollar VAT fraud? It's an address. Mr Kristóf Szatmáry has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-02-18-29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Although we might think that opposition representatives and the better-looking Members in it have resigned from today's session as some kind of protest, they may not have wanted to hear it, they did not want to face the interpellation that would now be heard and which is fundamentally affecting their partner. According to press reports, an investigation is under way against Gábor Staudt and his associates in billion-dollar budget fraud. As we know, the Hungarian authorities are already investigating the damages of some HUF 2.5 billion at the expense of the Polish State. The seriousness of the case is not more evident than the fact that the investigation was transferred from the National Tax and Customs Office to the Budapest Investigative Prosecutor's Office in December last year. As it was previously found, Jobbik's former deputy group leader and several major contractors were involved in the case in which the names of former chief policemen were also included. As opposed to them, we know that only the D.A. has the authority to investigate. If the crime is fully investigated, it is hoped that the large contractors named in his testimony will also be held accountable. Many of them, many of them, had to know that they had helped to cheat at the expense of the Polish state, not for free, but for extra profit. These entrepreneurs currently have millions of assets according to the reporters, so they may have a chance to enforce claims if their responsibility is established. According to the news, there was a serious trust between members of the criminal organization. The retired colonel who gave the testimony was a member of Gábor Staudt's narrower advisory trust, attended and spoke at Jobbik's professional conferences. The other police officer, who was reported, is known only to present some interesting facts, that the policeman's son, who was involved in the complaint, was added to the electoral list of the opposition on the left in 2014 in the colors of the MSZP. What a merger: the criminal coalition of MSZP-Jobs! [[14.20]] The latest news is that the two countries agreed to set up a Polish-Hungarian investigation team, which hopefully will put an end to this matter as soon as possible. Dear Secretary of State, So the investigation has entered another phase. I'm asking you, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] When will the interstate investigation team be able to get a hit on this case? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-02-18-30	Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2019-02-18-31	Thank you for the floor, President's Road. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, According to press information, as you mentioned, a former member of a criminal organisation operating in Hungary has reported to the Polish Public Prosecutor's Office the former MP Jobbik, two former lieutenants and several associates of the National Bureau of Investigation, on suspicion of fiscal fraud at the expense of the Polish State. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members that Gábor Staudt announced his resignation in December 2018, but he has actually resigned from his parliamentary seat only with effect from 31 January 2018. This was of great benefit to both Gábor Staudt and the Group of Jobbik. According to his statement, personal reasons led to his decision. The question arises whether Gábor Staudt returned his mandate for personal reasons, or whether this matter is behind the resignation. Gábor Staudt may have gone ahead of the events, not hiding behind his immunity. The reason for the resignation is that the former MP does not want to drag the Jobbik faction with him, so he wants to protect his party and its former associates. In the procedure referred to in the current interpellation, it is not yet possible to know whether or not the former better representative has received this money, and also whether Gábor Staudt provided this money to the Jobbik faction or Jobbik's party as a result of the outcome of the case. Ladies and gentlemen, In recent times, we have heard more and more about the news and scandals surrounding Jobbik. Let us recall the case of Béla Kovács accused of espionage and EU budget fraud. You can see that in the Jobbik faction, they can do anything for money and power. Ladies and gentlemen, If these charges prove to be true, there will already be a parallel between Jobbik and the leftist factions in criminal matters. Dear House, In addition, I would like to stress that the investigative department is not within the competence of the Ministry of Justice. However, we must take into account that everyone in criminal proceedings is entitled to the presumption of innocence and I am sure that the prosecution is doing its job within the possibilities of legality and democracy. Generally speaking, the prosecution does not have a simple task, because there is a great deal of visibility in this type of crime, especially when it comes to cross-border cases. According to press reports, the agreement was signed on the establishment of the Polish-Hungarian joint investigation team, which was also mentioned by Mr President, which could end the multi-billion-dollar VAT fraud case at the expense of the Polish State. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I believe that the length of the procedure will not be the determining factor in a criminal proceeding, but the result, because Hungary is a rule of law, where the laws rule, which apply to everyone, including Jobbik or the better Members. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-02-18-32	Once again, Congressman Satmary has the floor.
u2019-02-18-33	Dear Secretary of State, I accept the answer in advance, of course, just because it would really be good to clarify that, in many cases, right-wing Members, such as the SAO penalties, refer to a conceptual procedure, but it is important to see that when the name of their former group leader was mentioned in the case of a VAT fraud of 2.5 billion, it is very, very difficult to believe in innocence. Unfortunately, the parallel stops there, too, that during the previous period, we could already accompany a criminal tele novel here in Parliament in Csaba Czeglédy's case on the line of the MSZP, and there the parties and those involved constantly insisted that there was a misunderstanding. Since then, fortunately, the investigation has proved that we do live in a state of law, and that no one can escape from the law, and we hope that the law will strike there with the proper rigour, and we also hope that this matter will be clarified. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-02-18-34	Dear House, Now Lajos Rig is a better representative I/4493. Its interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources, which we must consider withdrawn, would follow. Imre Vejkey, a representative of KDNP, provided an interview with the Minister of Human Resources:, What changes do 2019 make in the lives of families? It's an address. Congressman Imre Vejkey has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-02-18-35	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, In the eight years before 2010, the situation was rather deplorable from the point of view of family policy. As a result, by 2010, the desire to start a family and have children reached a low level, the number of abortions was high, and mortality was extremely high in European comparison, which, without intervention, showed a significantly shrinking Hungarianness. The second Orbán government, which was established in 2010, recognised this as a priority for families. About the family as a value-bearing and value-creating basic unit, Hungary's new Fundamental Law, I quote: Hungary protects the institution of marriage as a voluntary community between men and women, as well as the family as the foundation for the survival of the nation. The new family support system was established along these principles, which introduced and subsequently extended the family tax relief. As a further measure, the government restored the three-year-old child and introduced the diplomat in addition to increasing the lawn. In 2018, the government spent nearly 2,000 billion on supporting families with children, which is twice as large as in 2010. The government helps to reconcile work and family. This is what the four-part Gyed extra measures for parents with small children in the job protection action, the possibility of part-time employment for workers and a significant increase in nursery-care facilities are used for this purpose. The government leaves tens of thousands of HUF for parents with children with free nursery and kindergarten meals and the introduction of free school textbooks. The housing support was introduced, which was replaced by CSOK from 1 July 2015 and has since been used by almost 95 thousand families for HUF 275 billion. As a result of the above measures, the number of marriages has increased significantly since 2010 and the fertility rate has increased from 1,23 to 1.50. Madam Secretary! However, we cannot be content with this. Further measures are needed to achieve the 2,1 population reproduction value, which is why I am asking the Secretary of State what changes it will bring [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the year 2019 in the lives of families. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-02-18-36	Secretary Katalin Novak has the floor to answer. Here you go.
u2019-02-18-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You have started with what demographic problems Hungary is facing, but we can also say that all of Europe is facing such demographic problems. Think, ladies and gentlemen, that there is not a single EU country today where there would be enough children to keep their population. Today, migration is the sole source of Europe's population growth. That is why we are faced with a decision and we must decide what answer we give to this population problem: do we also want to remedy this population situation by installing migrants, or do we want to support the birth of Hungarian children? In this respect, the Hungarian people have already given a clear answer on several occasions, and they have decided to give as much help as possible in the implementation of the plans for young Hungarians to have children. That's what the last nine years have been about, and that's what the 3.5 or 3 years ahead will be about, at least that's it. What results have we achieved so far? As Mr President said, childbearing is at a peak of 20 years, the number of marriages has increased by 1.5 times, while the number of divorces has decreased by 23 percent. So relationships are more stable than they were before, the rate of population loss has declined in recent years, and indeed, we are spending more on these expenses, but I would consider this not an expense, but an investment. [[14.30]] I believe that there is no more important investment than the future of our children, and therefore every HUF or penny investment in our future is spent on family support. This investment today is twice as big as it was in 2010: indeed, it is now more than HUF 2000 billion and to have a good basis for comparison, almost double the average of developed countries in terms of GDP. So, compared to the country's economic performance, I can also say that we are helping almost beyond our strength, supporting childbearing and child rearing. What new steps have been made and will take place this year? Let us not forget that on 1 January this year we introduced the children's home care fee. This helps families where they are permanently ill, raising children who are unable to take care of themselves. From 1 January of this year, these families will be able to receive 100,000 HUF for children's home care fees, and this amount will increase until the minimum wage is reached in three years' time. So we were able to make one move here, too. We have repeatedly raised the family tax relief of two children, and let us not forget that. Today, the family tax relief for two children is 40,000 forints a month. At the time of left-wing governments, there was no tax relief for two children at all. We are constantly expanding the home creation program, and we have presented seven new elements and seven new opportunities for young Hungarians as part of a seven-point family protection action. On the one hand, we are introducing childbearing support for young married people. This is a loan facility that can be used until 2022 by women between 18 and 40 years of age, and those who undertake to take on children in the future, with a grant of up to HUF 10 million, can receive non-refundable support if this child is delivered. We expand the CSOK, make the loan available for the purchase of used property, and a new element for home creation is that even two children can credit one million forints from their credit, and we will credit one million forints from the loan of the two children when the second child arrives in the family. And if it's the third, it's 4 million forints. A personal income tax exemption for mothers with four or more children has already been mentioned today; a car shopping program for large families, which is a HUF 2.5 million grant. I would also mention the nursery development program and the grandma and grandparents' children. But I'd like to put it this way: this is not a closed-ended list, this work, as we have done so far, will continue in the future. I ask your support for this. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-02-18-38	Congressman Vejkey has the floor again.
u2019-02-18-39	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your reply. As a Christian Democrat, I thank the government for helping young people start their lives with new support, childbearing and child number growth. It is of paramount importance that the Hungarian government is shaping the future of Hungarians against the EU-mainstream, not with immigrants, but with the support of Hungarian children and families with children. As a Christian Democrat, Madam Secretary, I thank you for representing the government as a culture of life against the culture of death, which is now so popular in Europe. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-02-18-40	I understand that Mr President has accepted Mrs Secretary of State's reply and that there will be no vote. Bangóné Borbély Ildikó I/4527. The Minister of Human Resources has submitted an interpellation, which must be considered withdrawn. László Varju, representative of DK, I/4536. He also submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources, which we must consider withdrawn. Bence Tordai, representative of the Dialogue, I/4525. The Minister of Finance has submitted an interpellation, which must be considered withdrawn. István Apáti, an independent representative, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:, Eleven against one, or self-defense outnumbered, bush cutters and baseball bats? It's an address. Congressman István Apáti has the floor.
u2019-02-18-41	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Versegen In January 2019, people belonging to the Gypsy minority committed a serious crime against a young man. A few days earlier, following a preliminary dispute, the victim's brother was also abused by several members of the same populous family. The young man wanted to clarify the circumstances of this abuse, and when he left Versegen on Dózsa György Street, a few minutes later he received a distress call from his brother, saying that at least ten people were standing outside his house, threatening to kill him and cut off his head. The young man turned back in a perfectly understandable manner and came to his brother's aid. He didn't even get out of the car, and there was a sword flying towards the front windshield. When he jumped out of the vehicle, he was attacked several times overnumbered, he was grounded, hit, kicked in the chin several times, his nose was broken, scolded, abused, and his vehicle suffered significant damage, and there was also a baseball bat and a bush knife. The latter device was slammed in the head, causing further serious injuries. And after all this, he claimed that several members of the populous Gypsy family were still the victims, they were attacked, and the means of killing life were actually the victims. Well, ladies and gentlemen, without exaggerating, we can say that it was solely the divine providence, the physique, the stamina and the presence of the injured that did not take away his life. In these circumstances, for example, there was no tragedy like that of Marian Cozma. At present, the Gödöllő Police Department is prosecuting only three suspects for a well-founded suspicion of the crime of gang violence, and we can see from the rating that the means of killing life were already in the hands of the perpetrators. Dear Secretary of State, There are a number of questions about this very brutal crime. Where is the complete mapping and identification of the group of perpetrators, since much more than three persons have been involved in this shameful act? The question also arises as to whether the authority is examining with sufficient care the attempt to commit a homicide, which is a far more serious rating and would have much more serious consequences. Then the question arises from the heart of the ordinary Hungarian man, not only from Eastern Hungary, but also from the immediate proximity of the capital, that if this happens in the opposite way, and ten Hungarian people attack a Gypsy person, then is the same rating, Mr Secretary of State. Then would all Hungarians defend themselves on parole, or would they have been imprisoned? Then how would the racist motive stand, which in this case might not even arise? Because it's always one-sided, one-way? And as a matter of fact, Secretary of State, if the victim had been the child of a leading Fidesz politician, a wealthy entrepreneur or a senior police chief, would that have been the same rating? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause from the independent benches.]]
u2019-02-18-42	Secretary of State Károly Kontrat has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-02-18-43	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Hungary is a democratic rule of law where, in the event of a criminal offence, the police, in accordance with the Fundamental Law, act decisively against all criminals in all the settlements of Hungary in the interests of public order and public security. Honourable Congressman, I can assure you that any police officer in criminal matters has a legal obligation to provide objective, impartial measures and procedures. The Hungarian police act decisively against everyone who violates the law, regardless of their racial, ethnic, religious or material status or affiliation. In 2010, we said that we would restore order and security, strengthen the police in Hungary, create strict laws. In 2018, the number of offences registered in the police procedure in Hungary was 186 593 compared to 428 785 cases in 2010. So again, 186 593, compared to the previous 428 785 in 2010. Of course, our starting point is, and also the police, that a crime is one more than necessary and acceptable, but I still think that these numbers speak for themselves, and I thank the police for this result. I believe that the dual task - the maintenance of public security, public order and the protection of the border in Hungary, the protection of the security of the Hungarian people - has succeeded the police together, and I trust that these numbers will be even more favourable in the future. The results of the investigation also improved, at 68.8 percent, which was only 41.2 percent in 2011 and the number of crimes committed in the public domain decreased by more than 54 percent. [[14.40]] Honourable Congressman, These results speak for themselves, and I think they are encouraging to answer the questions you have asked. I would also like to draw the honourable Member's attention to the fact that, since 1990, the Hungarian Parliament has remained unbroken in the practice that, in the case of ongoing crimes, as you have asked, details of the case are not available to us here in Parliament. We maintain this practice, precisely in order to avoid prejudication and perhaps to give an unsubstantiated opinion on the ongoing procedures. I will tell you so much, Mr President, that, in the matter of substance, the investigation will also cover the examination and determination of all the circumstances which may be relevant to the determination of the facts and the criminal rating of the act. The investigating authority has acted and will continue to comply fully with the relevant legal requirements, with the need for impartial administration and maximum consideration for non-discrimination. The investigating authority shall carry out all possible and necessary investigative activities. Honourable Congressman, On this basis, I can say that we have all the hope that the truth will be revealed here, and that sinners will be punished. I ask you to accept my answer. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-18-44	I will ask Congressman István Apáti if he will accept the answer.
u2019-02-18-45	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I don't accept the answer. Of course, the purpose of my speech was not to tell you how many years you will receive, since I cannot say that. And I didn't try to aim at it by any chance, and it didn't even occur to me in the back of my mind that I was ordering something, and then you were running around like a waiter. [[Károly Kontrat: I am not a waiter!]] After these questions, make no mistake. Let us be fair to one another: I know that no law will ever have the magical effect of never committing any crime. But what has happened in this country over the last thirty years in connection with this form of crime is the joint responsibility and common sin of the united Balliberal bloc and of you, Mr. Secretary of State, because just because we have talked little about this problem over the last five years does not mean that this problem does not exist or have been solved. The reason why they do not dare to touch on this issue in many other aspects of the law is because they see an easily available, easy to buy voting base in this social group and do not want to go against them. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the independents behind Jobbik.]]
u2019-02-18-46	Congressman didn't accept the answer. I ask this House whether they will accept the reply of the Secretary of State. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 113 votes to four, with one abstention. László Böröcz, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice:. When will the fate of the funds cheated by the left-wing politician and his associates be revealed? Mr László Böröcz has the floor.
u2019-02-18-47	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, As is known, Csaba Czeglédy, former representative of the Hungarian Government in Szombathely-DK-Together, and his associates, has been prosecuted for a long investigation into the crime of fiscal fraud, which is particularly detrimental to property, as well as the misdemeanour of the use of false private documents. According to the indictment, the socialist politician as Human Operator Zrt., based in Szombathely. As of 2011, the President and effective executive director of his Board of Directors established a criminal organisation aimed at reducing the tax liability of the basically student labour agency. In order to avoid paying public burdens, Csaba Czeglédy's guidelines set up a chain of invoicing on the basis of which, at the lowest level, there were no actual economic activities at the middle level, but only companies carrying out reinvoicing, while at the top level, Human Operator Zrt. Standing. According to the method conducted by the criminal organisation, the school associations either did not declare or did not pay the general income tax or personal income tax, or even if they did. Altus Zrt. is connected to Ferenc Gyurcsány. the state has suffered more than HUF 6 billion in financial disadvantages as a result of acts managed by politicians financed by the government. According to press reports, nine of the defendants, in addition to their own accomplices, have made statements against Csaba Czeglédy, which support the accusation. It should also be remembered that the Czechie in the role of the victim was already convicted of such an act once in 2003, then the student employment intermediary he led made payments to accounts for which there was no performance. Thus, the current crime he was charged with was committed as a repulsive crime. During the procedure, Czeglédy defends himself through his prison attorney's office. I would like to note that the Balliberian politician not only damaged the state, but also students and pensioners from the most vulnerable groups of Hungarian society, who have not been paid their earned and legitimate wages. Instead of companies related to the lawyer cherished by the left, the Hungarian State finally undertook to compensate the injured workers. Dear Secretary of State, In the light of the above, I would like to ask the Secretary of State when the fate of the sums cheated by the left-wing politician and his associates will be revealed. Thank you very much. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-18-48	To reply, Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary.
u2019-02-18-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As reported in the press, Csaba Czeglédy and his associates have run eight school associations across the country, fictitiously. These cooperatives were handed over the works acquired by Czeglédy's company. Students and, in many cases, adults and pensioners were also reported to the school associations. According to the D.A.'s statement, on the basis of the method conducted by the criminal organisation, the general turnover tax in connection with the mediation of mainly student work was declared by the school associations in individual cases without the intention of paying the tax, and in other cases they did not comply with their respective reporting obligations. According to the charge, the school cooperatives also acted in the same way in fulfilling other public burdens on the employment of students, including the tax and tax liability related to personal income tax. According to the charges, over the years 3 billion HUF 254 million and 2 billion HUF 960 million in other taxes and contributions, i.e. a total of HUF 6 billion 215 million, caused a financial disadvantage to the State. In Mr. Congressman's interpellation, he pointed out that nine of the defendants made a statement against Csaba Czeglédy, from which we can see that they too want to contribute to the truth, to which the Criminal Procedure Act of course gives us the opportunity. I would like to stress that everyone in Hungary must comply with the legislation, and no one can be an exception, not even the socialist and DK politicians. The judiciary is based on criminal law principles such as....there is no crime without the law....and there is no punishment without the law.. However, it is important that the penalty is sufficiently dissuasive. I am convinced that the law enforcement staff are doing their job with the necessary expertise, so the truth about the prison lawyer, Csaba Czeglédy, will soon be revealed. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the vulnerable situation of the injured, the Member also mentioned that Fidesz-KDNP had submitted a parliamentary resolution proposal to the House, in which he asked the Hungarian Government to pay damages on a fair basis. The government considers it important that in the Czeglédy case, students and other affected workers do not suffer any harm except their own fault. It cannot be ignored that the criminal organization led by Csaba Czeglédy has damaged one of the most vulnerable social groups, including pensioners. Despite all this, the party of the Hungarian Socialist Party and Ferenc Gyurcsány continues to hide and defend Csaba Czeglédy accused of the crime of fiscal fraud and the misuse of false private documents. The opposition, we can see, is full of corruption cases. They are still indebted to the answers, exactly what dirty work Czeglédy has done for them, and to whom the stolen 6.3 billion HUF has migrated. In addition to the Democratic Coalition led by Ferenc Gyurcsány, the entire Hungarian left has a serious ethical and political responsibility.Therefore, it is justified to examine whether this money has been used to get into the vaults of the left-wing parties and whether the covered party funding has been realised. They are insufficient out of honesty and humanity - that's all we can think of. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[14.50]]
u2019-02-18-50	I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2019-02-18-51	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Of course, I accept the answer. And thank you very much, because, as you mentioned, Csaba Czeglédy did not only exploit the most vulnerable social groups, but also harmed them, for which the Hungarian state then had to endure in the end. It is also important to get to the bottom of such crimes as quickly as possible, because it also increases uncertainty when young people working in student associations do not receive the wages they have earned. And it's amazing that someone or someone wants to hide behind political parties and try to cover up a case like this. Thank you very much.
u2019-02-18-52	Thank you. Dear Parliament, János Stummer's better representative submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture No I/4512, MEP Lajos Korózs I/4524. Mr Zsolt Gréczy, representative of DK, I/4531. I/4529. Mr Ander Balázs is also the Prime Minister, and Mr Ander Balázs is a better representative I/4518. The Minister of Finance has submitted an interpellation, which must be considered withdrawn. That concludes the interpellations. Next up is the immediate question. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the House Rules of the Decision are 29. By exercising my authority under paragraph 3 (b), the A/4588 to be said by Ms Ágnes Vadai. I rejected the immediate question, as the question violates the authority of the Parliament. [[Move and make noise.]] In accordance with the powers set out in point (b) of paragraph 2 of this Article, the A/4588 to be said by Ms Ágnes Vadai. I rejected the immediate question, as the question violates the authority of the Parliament. (Move and noise.) Dear House, In the case of immediate questions - no reason to be impatient or to lose calm, everyone should return to their seats; thank you very much - the procedure is that if a Member does not accept the person who is responding, that is to say, he does not wish to tell his immediate question, then the next member of the group would automatically follow his immediate question. Therefore, for the sake of the minutes and for your sake, I would like to inform you of the immediate questions that should have been asked, and of course, we cannot give the next one the opportunity, given that the opposition representatives are not present. On the other hand, there is an immediate question of pro-government. So: György Szilágyi wanted to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély to the Minister of Human Resources, Imre László, representative of DK to the Minister of Human Resources, Lóránt Keresztes Lóránt LMP representative to the Prime Minister, representative of Kocsis-Cake Olivio wanted to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question. It is now time for Congressman Sándor Kovács, on behalf of Fidesz, who wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. When will anyone from Jobbikos apologize for the way he treats pensioners? It's an address. Here you go.
u2019-02-18-53	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, When are you gonna apologize for the way you treat seniors? Fidesz is the party where we take care of the elderly not only in the campaign, but throughout our entire government. Fidesz appreciates and respects Hungarian pensioners, expects their knowledge and experience, and therefore decided to guarantee the preservation, predictability and security of the real value of pensions for Hungarian pensioners. The government has reduced the VAT on basic foods, introduced the Women's 40, and reduced the overhead costs. Jobbik did not vote for women to retire after 40 years of employment, leaving the elderly behind. Jobbik also turned out to have started his incredible cute campaign to win the votes of the elderly. Our policy is completely in conflict with the opinion of Jobbik's media consultant, who in a leaked conversation called a far-back commando who gives political opinions on social media. Máté Silhavy, the vice president of the party, Dániel Z. Kárpát can be heard on the recording made after the election last year. We got a glimpse of how Jobbik really thinks about pensioners. The following can be heard in the leaked conversation. We used to call these in the business butt-back commandos, they're mostly retired, sitting at home, waiting for something to come. You throw them the content, you write, "Oh, my God, that son of a bitch said it again! You guys tell me right. And then they'll go over there and write on it. The troll is relatively few, these really living stupid pensioners who sit there and wait all day to know when they can..., this Z. Kárpat Dániel, who, based on the conversation, heard the expression for the first time, noted, perhaps referring to Silhavy, he is the lieutenant colonel of the rear-back commando. From all this, it is clear that his own voters are also despised by the better. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] From the conversation that took place a few weeks after the parliamentary elections last April, it is clear that Jobbik despises and despises its senior voters, because Silhavy calls them stupid and calls them Far-Back Commandos, whose opinion supports the party on social media. These people deserve respect, not such subpar scorn and demeanor. It's just not fair. So the real face of Jobbik is extreme and aggressive. What Jobbik is doing is hypocrite and outrageous. It wasn't the first time Jobbik got caught thinking what he really thought about the elderly: he looked down on them. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Gábor Vona wrote earlier... thank you very much. So, Mr Secretary of State, please tell me what measures the government is taking for pensioners who Jobbik looks down on, who had to rebuild the country after the Second World War and after the defeat of the 56th Revolution, and in 89, after the change of regime, the economy had to be restarted. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-18-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. I warmly welcome my fellow Members and, with respect, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the two minutes are two minutes for everyone. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State. You answer.
u2019-02-18-55	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, if we look at the good scandals of the past few years about older people, we can see that Jobbik is caught several times. Sometimes a leader honestly writes out on Facebook what he thinks, other times different recordings come out, but each of them shows that the good guys don't respect the old guys, and they don't do anything for them. We can remember Gábor Vona, who posted on his Facebook page the sentences in which he insulted the elderly that they had sewage running out of their mouths, that they were pissed off by XX. The various traumas of the century. We can remember Tamás Sneider's previous statements by Jobbik's present-day president that we need to put on a cute role for the elderly to vote for them, and now we have seen the words of Jobbik's Vice President, Dániel Z. Carpathian, and the head of the media foundation, who also looked down on their old voters. It is not just a matter of talking about old people, although it is obviously unacceptable to talk about anyone that way, but even their own old people who vote for Jobbik, and even those who convince others to vote for Jobbik on the Internet, speak like this. And neither Gábor Vona apologized for her own Facebook entry, nor Tamás Sneider apologized for his own words, which came out of a recording, never apologized when he insulted the elderly. And that is what Jobbik continues now, when he does not apologize for these words. He always gets caught from time to time, but he never apologizes. In fact, their better-looking fellow Members are apologizing to Jobbik's politicians. There are so many differences in the last year, that not only do better politicians now excuse Jobbik's unspoken, disdainful, non-respectful words, but the politicians of DK and other parties have joined this choir, and they also defend the indefensible, when the rightists speak unforgivingly, disrespectfully about the elderly. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-18-56	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Sándor Kovács. Here you go.
u2019-02-18-57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I've already used up a minute of your answer in the extension. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-18-58	The congressman is extremely fair, thank you very much. State Secretary Bence Rétvári has a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2019-02-18-59	Thank you very much. I would also like to remind everyone in this tragedy that when Gábor Vona did not apologize to the elderly after he insulted them with the words quoted earlier, Jobbik tried to set up a retirement school to take the lead in the attacks with this retirement. [[15.00]] But as one of its leaders, vice-president, they were able to choose a man whose anti-Jewish and Gypsy statements were found within minutes on his own social side. So they failed to find a man who might not be accused of racism or anti-Semitism. And as I said, the opposition parties, Jobbik and MSZP, DK and all the other parties are now speaking in one language in the matter of pensions, and there is a death penalty in the matter of pensions. We can remember what they received, say, in 2008, from the pensioners Ferenc Gyurcsány: the taking of a month's pension, an 8 percent pension reduction, a 6.4 percent pension reduction from the Bajna government, but they received both from the Horn and the Gyurcsány government to tax pensions with reference to consolidated taxation. In both cases, even after the Horn government and after the Gyurcsány government, the possibility of taxing pensions was abolished by Fidesz-KDNP. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-02-18-60	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Gergely Farkas, a betterman, would now have wanted to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, but he is not present. In this case, Mr Brenner Koloman would also be next, a better Member, who also wanted to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, but is not present. But Congressman László Szászfalvi is here. So, MEP László Szászfalvi, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. How has the support of people with disabilities and family members who care for them changed? It's an address. I have to ask you, as Minister is not present, and he has asked Secretary Bence Rétvári to replace him, whether he will accept the reply of the Secretary of State. [[On the signal of László Szászfalvi:]] Thank you very much. Mr László Szászfalvi has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-02-18-61	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Last autumn we adopted and launched a new element of the social support system, the system of child care fees. The new form of support will help those who care for their children who are incapable of self-sufficiency. Overall, this affects and supports more than 50,000 families in Hungary today. It is important to stress that the Fidesz-KDNP government launched this new form of support to improve the lives and living conditions of people with disabilities and their families. This new support is due to the parents of children in the most serious state who are unable to self-sufficiency. It indicates to them that it is our moral duty to appreciate the sacrifices made by parents and to recognise them through material support. I find it extremely sad and outrageous that our opposition fellow Members, putting their petty political interests ahead of helping the fallen people, did not support the introduction of the weed. This tells us everything about the credibility of their words and, more specifically, their lack of credibility. Dear Secretary of State, As in recent years, in this case, the Christian Democratic People's Party stands up for our disadvantaged or disabled fellow citizens, it continues to support the strengthening of the social security system and the increase in financial support. The expected further increase in care fees, the creation of a child's home care fee and the continuous increase in fees are also included in this complex family policy decision. Moreover, since permanent supervision, care and care are most often an obstacle to work, providing adequate financial support is essential for these families. On this basis, I would like to ask the Secretary of State how the amount of the care allowance that can be paid in the case of the care of the relative at home has changed. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-02-18-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer your immediate question. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2019-02-18-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We cannot go without saying that the opposition on this issue was very loud in the second half of last year, and made a lot of demands. However, on 12 December, when this proposal should have been voted on, it did just the opposite of what it had previously demanded. After all, they tried to prevent the chairman of the meeting from asking that question at all. In addition, they tried to prevent it in a way that has not been an example in Hungary for generations, that they have physically stood as an obstacle to the introduction of a child's home care fee, the higher recognition of home care, the increase of the care fee, and the use of physical violence in order to prevent the Members of Parliament from introducing the lawn and raising the care fee. Here were the ladies and gentlemen of Congress in the Chamber, as the chairman was able to lead the meeting from his place, but nevertheless, although they were here, and there was another issue in which they voted, opposition representatives did not support the introduction of a child care fee in the Chamber, an increase in the care fee. Those who demanded it the loudest in the months before, here in Parliament, were literally at an arm's length away from pressing the yes button on their voting machines. But it wasn't important to them, just as it wasn't important in the months before, it was a recorded role for them, like so many other things on that day and in the days following, in the TV booth and everywhere else. All they had to do was do what they did on other issues, to go to their place and press yes. But there wasn't a single opposition representative so determined and so empathetic with these tens of thousands of families to take this tiny little step, little help to support this proposal, to do so. Fidesz-KDNP supported this and voted to increase care fees here in Parliament. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-02-18-64	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman László Szászfalvi. Here you go.
u2019-02-18-65	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary, for your answer. As a Christian Democratic Member, the support of families and the continuous improvement of the conditions of family life are a key part of our policy. This is what leads us to today's wide-ranging family policy decisions, as has been the case in this particular case. With this, there are four types of care available to those in need, together with care fees for relatives who do not care for their children at home, the amount of which has also increased since January this year. This year's increase in care fees also indicates that those who take on a heavy physical and psychological burden in their homes care for their disabled, persistently ill relatives deserve ever greater financial appreciation in addition to moral support. Today, the country's economic performance provides the necessary background, so that we can also achieve results in the area of disability by continuing to develop the social care system. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-02-18-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-02-18-67	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, From 1 January this year, the allowance and fee for all care premiums increased by 15 percent, and in the next three years it will increase by an additional 5-5-5 percent at the beginning of each year. That is, overall, the government decided to increase care fees by 30 percent. In the case of those who care for their children at home, who cannot care for themselves, this is an extremely difficult life situation, and not only financially but also humanly, it is extremely hard for a family, in this case it has decided on a particularly prominent support, the amount that is due to these families is 100,000 forints. This amount is 2.7 times what these families received in 2010. This is not the end of the increases either, as after this year, the rate of this fee will always increase in the coming years, until it reaches the minimum wage level of that year in 2022. This is a tangible support, a tangible step forward. Everyone could feel that this was supported by the governing parties, and the opposition parties did not support it here in Parliament without exception. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-02-18-68	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask all of you, in order for only government representatives to be in there, to sit down and listen silently to immediate questions and answers to them. I'll thank you if you do that. I'll wait. Thank you very much. Mr Csaba Tóth, representative of the MSZP, wanted to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question, but he is not present. Mr. Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, wanted to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question, but he was not present. Ms Ágnes Vadai, representative of DK, wanted to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question, but she is not present. Congressman Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, wanted to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, but Congressman Bence Tordai is not present. [[15.10]] Dear Parliament, F Mr Sándor Kovács, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:, Can there be a link between the funds cheated by a socialist lawyer and the financing of left-wing parties? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Pál Völner as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask whether the Member accepts the person who is responding. [[F by Sándor Kovács:]] The Member indicates that he accepts Mr Pál Völner as a State Secretary. Congressman, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2019-02-18-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Recently, after several years of thorough investigation, he prosecuted Csongrád County Attorney General's Office Czeglédy Csaba MSZP, DK, Former Municipal Representative and Associates. According to the indictment, the lawyer of the socialists cut the Hungarian budget by HUF 6.2 billion. Everyone remembers that in addition to the state register, Csaba Czeglédy damaged students and pensioners by not paying their wages. The necessary amounts have not yet been paid by the companies, but the government's rapid response has led to the start of compensation for the victims. In addition, he further shuddered at the fact that the documents that Altus Zrt. was linked to Ferenc Gyurcsány were published. has financed Csaba Czeglédy's activities in several cases. According to press reports, several of the people involved in the crime have broken their silence, their omerta, and confessed to the case. In their testimony, they acknowledged their accomplice and provided incriminating information on Csaba Czeglédy, which confirmed the allegations in the indictment, so it is possible that the Balliberal politician will defend himself through his own prison lawyer's office. In the case of Czeglédy's fraud, we must not ignore the fact that, once a similar crime was committed, the lawyer on the left was convicted of a final conviction in 2003, so the role of victim is very limping. Dear Secretary of State, In view of what has been said, I would like to ask Mr State Secretary whether there is a link between the funds cheated by a socialist lawyer and the financing of left-wing parties. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-18-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer from State Secretary Pál Völner. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2019-02-18-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The sick attraction of left-wing and liberal parties is known for money from unclear origins or crimes, either back to the Tochik case or to the oil-blooming case. We have also seen that in the pre-2010 government cycle, even in the four-way or BKV and other cases, this activity was carried out in an industrial fashion, but what is a great achievement is that they were able to operate a criminal organization in opposition, such as the school cooperative network operated by Csaba Czeglédy, where almost HUF 6.3 billion has actually been cheated and, indeed, even pensioners and students have been damaged. Which makes me wonder if there should be a sign of that kind of money, where that money went. What are the links between the lawyer working as a member of the party or the lawyer associated with the party, the school associations organised by him, the missing money and the parties who are involved in this, whether in DK or MSZP, can be promoted? It can be seen that silence in this area is much stronger than within the criminal network itself, because in the course of the proceedings, those involved were willing to reveal the detail of reality which, unfortunately, is quite incriminating for Csaba Czeglédy, but can contribute so much to a clearer view. The other part is a little more vague as to why Altus, a company of interest to Ferenc Gyurcsány, is so kind as to conduct financial transactions with this organization, and what accounts have been made, what repayments have been made, which they have had to write down accordingly. It is also due to the fact that the National Bank is conducting an investigation here under the market surveillance procedure, which is seen as an open political attack; we see this differently. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-18-72	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder will be followed by the congressman. Here you go.
u2019-02-18-73	Thank you for your reply, Secretary of State. You're right, we can't see clearly in this case yet, but what we're seeing is unprecedented: it highlights the link between a criminal organisation and politics. You could say it's unprecedented, but you've listed some examples. I'm curious to know how long this criminal organization will reach when it's fully eradicated, how long it will reach, and whether everyone will be punished. Thank you very much for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-18-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State.
u2019-02-18-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Indeed, in the case, as we can see, significant progress has been made by law enforcement agencies, prosecutors, with these exploratory statements that justify what they have said in the charge. Let us hope that the court will also be able to deal with these justified facts. The other part is, unfortunately, where the tentacles of the red octopus reach, what they embrace, and from where, what forces they absorb, is a much more difficult task, but I hope that this procedure will shed some light on it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-18-76	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, That concludes the immediate questions. I would like to inform the House that Mr President has called a meeting of the House Committee to the room of Béla Varga for 15 to 20 minutes. I ask the faction leaders or deputy group leaders to attend the meeting. Now it's time for the agenda to be discussed. Dear Parliament, Following a line between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Slovak Republic at the common state border, Dunakiliti and Doborgaz between a bridge for the transport of cyclists and pedestrians and a bill for the publication of an agreement on the construction of bridge-related facilities and between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Slovak Republic at the common state border of the two countries, Őrhalom and Ipolyvarbo a joint general debate on the draft law on the publication of an agreement on the construction of the road Ipoly Bridge and related facilities between municipalities until closure. Government referrals are T/4359. and T/4360. are available on the House's IT network for all of us. Ladies and gentlemen, I now give the floor to Secretary of State László Mosóczi, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, author of the legislative proposals. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-02-18-77	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, On 11 December 2018, the Hungarian and Slovak parties signed agreements between Dunakiliti and Doborgaz for the transport of cyclists and pedestrians and the settlements of Őrhalom and Ipolyvarbo on the road bridge to be established on the river Ipoly and the related facilities. In recent years, Hungary and Slovakia have concluded a series of similar contracts, which will gradually build infrastructure links between regions separated from each other for many decades. The purpose of the legislative proposals we are discussing is to incorporate the agreements concluded with the Slovak party into the Hungarian legal order. The law on procedures for international contracts requires the publication of agreements at the statutory level. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Dr. Winner Vinnai in the notary seat.]] Please allow me to explain in a few sentences the main content of the international treaties before the Honourable Parliament. The Hungarian and Slovak parties have agreed to build a Mederhid between Dunakiliti and Doborgaz, which provides a link to Szigetköz for settlements located in a closed area between the Danube River and the power plant in Bős. [[15.20]] The new bridge also connects the Slovak and Hungarian sections of the EuroVelo 6 - river path - international cycling route, which will have a positive impact on the development of cycling tourism in Szigetköz and small and medium-sized enterprises in the region. The new relationship will primarily meet the needs of the local population and cycling tourism. The length of the bridge is 250 metres, its total width is 4.9 meters, the width of the road is 4 metres. Under the agreement, the Hungarian and Slovak parties will jointly bear the investment costs related to the construction of the bridge on an equal footing. 85 per cent of the construction costs of the bridge and related facilities of around EUR 10 million are covered by aid already granted from the Interreg programme of the European Union. According to the agreement, the contractor is selected by the Slovak party in accordance with the provisions of the Public Procurement Act in force in the territory of the Slovak Republic. The construction of buildings and roads connected to the bridge is carried out by both parties on their own side. The Honourable Parliament is also discussing the publication of an agreement on the construction of the Ipoly Bridge between the Őrhalom and Ipolyvarbo. Once upon a time there was a bridge in the place of the planned bridge, like many other points of the Ipoly Valley, as almost every settlement had its own bridge, where farmers could pass through their land on the other side. In the border area of the Hungarian-Czechoslovak border until the nationalisation of agricultural land, the system of dual ownership was maintained, so traffic between the two sides was regular until the 1950s. After the 1950s, local bilateral relations were interrupted, border interoperability ceased. Small bridges have not been used, they have been gradually damaged in the absence of maintenance and due to regular floods. In the framework of the contract we are discussing, the Hungarian and Slovak parties agreed that the road link will be rebuilt at the site of the old bridge, where there is currently a temporary wooden bridge. Under the agreement, the Hungarian and Slovak parties will jointly bear the investment costs related to the construction of the bridge on an equal footing. The contractor is selected by the Hungarian party in accordance with the provisions of the public procurement law in force in Hungary. Representatives of both countries shall participate in the procurement procedure. The construction of buildings and roads connected to the bridge is carried out by both parties on their own side. The construction costs of the bridge and related facilities are planned to be covered by the European Union Interreg programme. Projects of local importance primarily serve the interests of border communities and improve the quality of life of residents in the affected areas. In Hungarian-Slovakian terms, large-scale investments are also taking place, such as the construction of the new Duna Bridge in Komárom, the Miskolc-Kassa motorway or the four-banding of the M15 motorway, with which a full-length highway connection is established between the two capitals. I would ask the Honourable Parliament to support the adoption of the proposed laws, and to support the publication of agreements between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Slovak Republic. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-18-78	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. Only the Fidesz Group has indicated that it needs to speak. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mrs Mónika Dunai. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-02-18-79	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear Parliament, In Western Europe, the average distance between border crossings is 2.5 to 3 km. In Central Europe, the same average distance is 40 kilometers. This is a huge competitive disadvantage that we have to eliminate. It is a competitive disadvantage, above all, for those living near the border, who have to make huge detours every day. But it is equally important that if we are serious about the Central European Alliance and, in particular, the V4 Alliance, then we must do everything we can to overcome this disadvantage. The ideal is that the neighbouring village of the neighbouring country is no more difficult to get to than a neighbouring village within the country. This is the case in Western Europe. But despite the efforts of the past years, we are still very far away. Ladies and gentlemen, According to the bilateral agreement on roads passing through the Hungarian-Slovak state border, a separate agreement should be concluded on the establishment of border bridges with a structure of more than 30 metres. This gives us the opportunity to discuss these two bridges separately. Anyone who wants to get from Dunakiliti to Doborgaz today should be at least 25 kilometers away. If the pedestrian-bicycle bridge that's in the proposal is built, it'll fall to a quarter. In addition, the new bridge also connects the Slovak and Hungarian sections of the EuroVelo 6 - river path - international cycling route, which will have a positive impact on the development of cycling tourism in Szigetköz and thus the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in the region. Similarly, the construction of the other proposed bridge is justified. Today, the road takes about 25 minutes by car from the horde to Ipolyvarbo, while the two settlements are less than two kilometers apart. The reason is that only Balassagyarmat or Pösténypuszta can cross the border. After all, it doesn't matter which one the watchdogs choose, in both cases they have to avoid about 10 kilometers. Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz Group considers this proposal to be particularly important for speeding up transport and for the accessibility of neighbouring villages - be it cross-border and cross-border - and we also support it. I'm asking you to support the Parliament in the final vote. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-18-80	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The joint general debate is closed. I will ask Mr State Secretary if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go.
u2019-02-18-81	Thank you very much for the support of the honourable Group and this House. Indeed, whoever builds a bridge builds the future. I think that between Hungary and the Hungarians across the border and between Hungary and Slovakia, new links with these two bridges will be established. The bridge between Dunakiliti-Doborgaz will also be part of the European wheel path network, so we also serve active recreation. Thank you again for your support. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-18-82	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. The general discussion of the bill between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Mongolia on the publication of the Agreement on international carriage of passengers and goods by road until its closure. The government referral is T/4363. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, I give the floor to State Secretary László Mosóczi, State Secretary of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, the author of the bill. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-02-18-83	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Please allow me to explain in a few sentences the main content of the bill before the Honourable Parliament. Currently, road transport and freight transport between Mongolia and Hungary are not covered by a bilateral document, and it is therefore of particular importance to establish an intergovernmental agreement establishing the legal framework for these activities. Between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Mongolia, 95/2017 on the authorisation to establish an agreement on the international carriage of passengers and goods by road. The Hungarian and Mongolian parties signed the agreement on the margins of the sixth meeting of the Hungarian-Mongol Joint Committee on Intergovernmental Economic Cooperation held in Budapest between 20 and 21 November 2018. [[15.30]] Hungary has already seen Mongolia as a key partner in this region and is ready to strengthen bilateral relations. On several occasions, the parties indicated their commitment to cooperate with Hungary and Mongolia in several projects. Dear Parliament, The agreed agreement regulates passenger and freight transport activities on the road. The Agreement lays down the conditions and framework for the carriage of passengers and freight, the cases of the exemption from taxes and licences for the carriage of goods, the transport of oversized or dangerous goods, the obligations of the carrier and the measures to be taken in the event of an infringement, and the competent bodies and the Joint Committee responsible for implementing the Agreement. The authorisations for the carriage of passengers by road between the two countries shall be issued by the competent authorities of the Hungarian and Mongolian parties to the route for the part of their territory, and shall determine jointly the duration of the authorisation, the timetable, the route and the applicable tariffs. With regard to the carriage of goods, the Agreement stipulates, inter alia, that a specific authorisation is required for each vehicle, which is valid for a single journey and for both empty or loaded vehicles. In order to implement and apply this Agreement, the Contracting Parties shall establish a Joint Committee composed of representatives of the competent authorities. The competent authorities of the Contracting Parties shall be entitled to invite additional experts to the meetings of the Joint Committee. Its meetings shall be held, at the request of either Contracting Party, alternately in the territory of the State of either Contracting Party and shall be entitled to initiate amendments to this Agreement or to propose termination thereof. At the meetings of the Joint Committee, the Parties shall record, inter alia, the type, number, order of issue and use of the licences necessary for the carriage of goods. In the Agreement, the Parties shall name transports which may be carried out without authorisation and exempt from tax in the territory of the two countries. Without the need for completeness, they are the carriage of objects for advertising or education, theatre, music, film, sports and circus events, presentations, fairs, or equipment and accessories for radio, film, television recordings, as well as the transport of animals or relief supplies, medical devices for the performances. The Agreement shall be without prejudice to the rights and obligations of the Contracting Parties arising from other international agreements and shall in no way affect Hungary's obligations arising from its membership of the European Union. Consequently, the provisions of this Agreement cannot be applied or interpreted in whole or in part as having invalidated, amended or otherwise affect Hungary's obligations under the Treaty of Accession of the European Union and arising from the founding Treaties of the European Union and the primary and secondary sources of law of the European Union. By discussing and adopting this bill, further development of Hungarian-Mongol trade and economic cooperation can also be expected. The establishment of the agreement will enable Hungary to strengthen its economic relations in the eastern direction, making a major contribution to the development of business and trade relations between Mongolia and Hungary and the European Union. In view of all this, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the adoption of the bill and the publication of the corresponding agreement. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-02-18-84	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. As in the case of the previous trial, only the Fidesz Group has set up a keynote speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mrs Mónika Dunai. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-02-18-85	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, The T/4363. Bill No. 1 aims at the publication of an agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Mongolia on national road passenger transport and freight transport. The bilateral intergovernmental transport agreements play an important role in national road transport. The agreements regulate, on the basis of reciprocity and mutual interest, the carriage of passengers and goods by road between the two countries and transit through their territory. This agreement can give further impetus to bilateral economic cooperation between the two countries. The agreement was signed in November 2018 in the framework of the sixth meeting of the Joint Committee on Hungarian-Mongol Intergovernmental Economic Cooperation. The fact, ladies and gentlemen, that the Joint Committee has already been held six times shows how intensive the relations between the two countries are. At the same time, the Joint Committee reviewed matters relating to commercial, investment and tied aid loans and areas of cooperation in agriculture, water management, education, culture and tourism. There is a strong interest on both sides in projects on tied aid loans, especially in the field of mining and water management. There is a significant demand from the Mongolian side for the adoption of Hungarian veterinary, food safety, meat, milk and leather processing technology. The Hungarian party is also open to joint scientific projects in the field of food industry, aquaculture, forestry and genetic research of livestock. In the framework of the Stipendium Hungaricum scholarship program, 191 Mongolian students began their studies in Hungarian higher education institutions. The agreement will help to strengthen our country's eastern economic relations and extend and deepen bilateral trade and economic relations, in addition to the Convention. On this basis, the Fidesz Group supports the proposal tabled, and I call on the whole Parliament to do so. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-02-18-86	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I now respectfully ask my fellow Members whether anyone still wishes to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. No one has made any further comments and the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr State Secretary if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. Laszlo Mosóczi: Yes.]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-02-18-87	Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the support, so another bilateral agreement will be reached with a country from which we expect serious trade and passenger transport links. Thank you very much.
u2019-02-18-88	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. This is the next part of the speech after the agenda: the Veszprém and the Balaton region will be the European Capital of Culture in 2023. From the Fidesz Group, Mr Péter Ovádi has applied for a speech after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-02-18-89	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to a little time travel: Friday, December 14, 2018, the venue is the Palace of Arts. The mayor of Debrecen, Győr and Veszprém is walking around. When we look around, the twinkling eyes are everywhere. The announcement of the results begins, and all we hear now is that the winner is Veszprém. I am proud to say that in 2023 Europe's cultural capital is Veszprém. It is a great joy, because it is not just a city, it is the victory of an entire region; it is the beginning of a road that brings together and inspires further cooperation, as the title of the tender says: Beyond, beyond, something, overcoming our limitations and borders. [[15.40]] The tender was submitted by the town of Veszprém, but as a regional tender, to which almost 200 municipalities joined, some areas of the entire Balaton coastal region and the Bakony region, as well as the Balaton Association, the Balatoni Circle and the Vitto Balaton Uplands Association. We would like this victory and this opportunity to be felt by every Veszprémian and every person in the Balaton region. Our city has a rich past with a strong church presence and a cool atmosphere and surprisingly strong musical and contemporary artistic life. The purpose of the Veszprém 2023 programme is to explore the inspiration and diversity inherent in this duality. According to the evaluation of the international jury, the 100-page proposal outlines a well-thought-out strategy whose long-term cultural, social, economic, environmental and urban goals are very ambitious, but also with a sense of humility and reality. And indeed, the aim is to allow the city and the region of Balaton, which cooperates with it, to occupy its rightful place between Europe's outstanding cultural regions, in the course of its large-scale venture of the Veszprém-Balaton 2023 - Europe's Capital of Culture. It's great, but all of us who are lovers of this city and landscape know it's not an unrealistic idea. The idea encourages the strengthening of the local creative industry, explores the possibilities of the design-driven city and region, aims at raising awareness of local identities, heritage, raising awareness, involving local initiatives, confronting the recurring problem of seasonality, the environment, sustainability, and making concrete proposals for all of this. For the first time, because of Brexit, the EKF in Europe's history will not be two, but one city in Europe's cultural capital in 2023, and this will involve Veszprém, the Balaton region. All of this is a serious task for all of us in terms of European and international consideration and the resulting responsibility. The rich and exciting package of offers with the cultural offers of the most diverse branches of art, plans, programmes, urbanistics and environmental aspects of new facilities does not simply promise a series of festivals with higher standards than usual for 2023, but also creates new regional relations systems, promoting cultural, creative, regional relations, social networks and institutions that promote a new level of quality, XXI. They can turn this region into a century of tradition, culture and environmental charm for all of us. This enthusiasm and willingness to contribute has only increased since Veszprém and the Balaton region won the title of ECF 2023. That is why I am sure that we will all do everything in our power to make Veszprém and Lake Balaton Europe a key meeting place, a region of culture and creativity by 2023 and beyond. I ask all of you to support me in this. Once again, I urge you to visit us and absorb the Veszprém sense of life with Bakony's fresh air. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-18-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. In this noble process, I wish Veszprém and the entire Balaton region successful preparation and outstanding results, as well as many satisfied visitors. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its meeting at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed. Good night, successful homecoming for everyone.
