u2019-06-24-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The first day of the second extraordinary session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, I declare that Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén, on behalf of the Government, is the XXXVI of 2012 on Parliament. Law 35. On the basis of Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the Parliament initiated the convening of an extraordinary meeting on 24-25 June 2019. The motion and its annex can be found on the website by Members and interested parties. Dear Parliament, We will continue our work with speeches before the agenda. Representative László Varju, Democratic Coalition, has applied for a pre-meeting speech:. Újpest wants a hospital! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-24-1	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Colleagues, I would like to begin my speech with an address, which has been established in the history of Hungarian parliamentarism, but as a result of Fidesz's regale in recent years, it has also been enriched with a new meaning that we are talking to the walls here, when I say that we are "Dear House! It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. As Újpest MP, it is not the first time I have spoken about the issue of the hospital on Árpád Road, and knowing that this House has ears, in case they hear it, and something will happen. But it seems that the majority of the government is shaking off the demand of the Újpestians like a dog on water. However, I have been sent here by our constituents not to leave you alone, but on the contrary: we want you to go to the buffet and demonstrate that you are not interested in the case of the Újpest people, and I must always say that this is what a group of Hungarian citizens, the Újpest people, need, even if they ignore it in other groups, whether these are foreign currency-credit or even disabled pensioners. The story is well known to you, by the way. The renovation of the hospital was arranged by the Gyurcsány and then by the Bajnai government, which was completed by 2010, and then the institution was closed two years later. Besides you, no one understands why it was important to close a newly renovated hospital; tell us, too, to mortals. The seven years of the building are empty, and then, at the end of last year, a government proposal was made to set up a homeless home in it, but this year, a government decision was taken to transform the property into a work hostel. Orbán to the Castle, hospitalized workers, that's pretty much your alternative. Then let's be clear. When you wish to demonstrate social support in addition to a decision that clearly serves your own financial or power interests, billions are spent on advertising campaigns and consultation, but otherwise, those involved are not asked for their opinions, as the devil is afraid of incense. But by the way, I'm telling you, if you ask the Újpest people, they definitely want a hospital. And it's not just the Újpestians, because it's the 15th. This is what the resident in the district expects the current government to do in the case of a hawaria in the M0-son situation. In addition, you know very well that a few weeks ago, the Honvéd Hospital was forced to cancel the reception of multiple injured, life-threatening patients. [[Németh Szilárd István: It's not true! You're lying!]] This happened in three out of four emergency centers. This absurd situation will be eliminated from autumn with the recommendation of the opposition mayor-designate Kálmán Olga in the capital, regardless of what you do in this case. Yet, it is understandable that the Újpestians hope for a better life, they want healing, childbirth and a hospital. Recently, even the Fidesz mayor of the district argued in this regard, and even wanted to see the dream hospital called super in Újpesten, so that he could, I suppose, tap and shut up on an instruction from the castle. Now it's quiet, suffering, hope that I won't be sick enough to have to see a doctor. Who? Where? Meanwhile, you're organizing sights and festivals all over the country, but we know the king is naked. They can't even organise their most basic task, decent health care. I have some bad news for the government: the citizens of the district are united on this issue, determined, they want a well-functioning clinic with decent health care, a hospital with good doctors. That is why we will protest this week, and there will be a demonstration in the middle of the summer for the hospital, because we do not want, as you have said, that your minister, by the way, those 200 Newpests have to die for that reason. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Because they can't provide proper care, we stand up for them. We're gonna be demorsting all the time...
u2019-06-24-2	Thank you, Congressman...
u2019-06-24-3	...we don't want to die because...
u2019-06-24-4	Congressman, your time limit is up. I don't want to take the sound away...
u2019-06-24-5	...you are unable to consider our position. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2019-06-24-6	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr State Secretary; of course the time frame will be taken into consideration.
u2019-06-24-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, DK will do nothing but continue its municipal campaign here within the walls of Parliament during the previous weeks, and it will also be happy to repeat disproved false news if they think that it can promote their political interests. Honourable Congressman, The Károlyi Sándor Hospital is currently operating with 377 beds, and there is a HUF 834 million development in progress to preserve and heal the health of the Újpestians, which I will describe in detail. But first, let's see who's talking, so who's demanding better health care? Those who have removed 16,000 active beds across the country, withdrawn 600 billion forints from health care, dismissed 6 000 health workers, and reduced healthcare expenditure per capita in Hungary alone from the OECD countries. It was a time for major hospital closures, since the children's hospital in Svábhegy was closed, OPNI was closed, Szabolcs Street Hospital was closed, and the Schöpf-Merei Ágost Hospital and Mother's Protection Center were closed; your administration brought about a period of hospital closure both at the capital and at national level. [[László Varju: Talk about Újpest!]] And since they had huge investments, which led to gigantic corruption, in the modern history of Hungary, OLAF reported that metro 4 was the story; well, instead of using Újpesten on the basis of fully-developed plans and in a way already approved by the commission, you used money to build a manual array, it was also poured into the 4th metro hat, and from there you were sent out, who knows where. [[13.10]] You, honourable Member, have taken 173 beds from Újpest. You, in the municipality, voted in favour of this. [[Gergely Harvesto: Who closed the hospital?]] You have closed the obstetric gynecology department with 55 beds, you have closed the urology with 30 beds, Internal Medicine 3 has also closed with 60 beds. [[László Varju: Hospital closure!]] With these different TVK and other adverse situations, the hospital was deprived of revenue for HUF 899 million. The visit fee was then introduced, which even more tried to discourage patients from the health system in Újpesten, thus putting their own hospital in a situation of lack of coverage. They tried to remedy this, the hospital constantly asked for reimbursement of the costs, but the then maintainer, the MSZP-SZDSZ, so you led the Capital Municipality with Gábor Demszky, refused to take the lead, so between 2005-10 you caused HUF 3.5 billion damage to the Károlyi Sándor Hospital, the patients in Újpest. Health improvements have not only been made in the countryside, honourable Member, 77 hospitals, 54 clinics and 104 rescue stations. [[Gergely Arató: What about the hospital in Újpest? The president's ringing the bell.]] , but also here in Budapest. You know that in the coming years we will spend 700 billion forints on Budapest, Újpest, XV. district and agglomeration, in Pest county, for better health care, in 4 center hospitals, 24 co-hospitals and 32 specialised clinics. In 2019, you did not support the budget this year, but we know 41.9 billion forints from Újpest, the XV. district, use it to improve health care in Budapest and Pest county. As a result, diagnostic capacity can be improved by 10 percent in Budapest and Pest County this year, as hospital supplies will be exchanged for HUF 9.7 billion and an additional HUF 7 billion this year. As for Újpest, honourable Member, [[Gergely Harvestó: You've been talking about something else for four minutes!]] For the better care of patients in Újpest there is a HUF 834 million development, from which the central budget gives you no support, as I said earlier, HUF 785 million, and the municipality adds HUF 48.9 million. As a result, the 7th floor of the Újpest office will be fully installed, and groups of rooms will be set up as operators, which will create a technical environment suitable for one-day surgical care, i.e. the least risky care for patients. So it will be 600 square meters long to renovate this level, with operator, bedroom, mechanical engineering. There will also be a development of air technology and shielding technology, a movemental center is built on the 1st floor, it will be renewed at 256 square meters. On the 4th floor, 158 square meters of inhalation and therapeutic treatment will be renewed, ODM lab will be established in the 3rd floor east wing at 43 square meters. On the ground floor, the sampling lab is renewed, converted to 120 square meters. [[László Varju: What about the hospital?]] new computers and visual diagnostic tools are coming in. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thus, we will spend a total of HUF 678 million on infrastructure, 38 million on assets and 47 million on IT development, honourable Member. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-24-8	Dear Parliament, At the same time, Mr Péter Jakab, the Jobbik Group, asked for a speech before the agenda. How long does the Government take advantage of the patience of the people? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2019-06-24-9	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Hungary has a government that has the creed, as we have known since John Lazarus, that everyone is worth as much as he has. However, this government no longer dares to disclose how much this people do not have, how much they need to spare, despite the fact that they are developing their guts. Since 2015, the Government's Statistical Office has not dared to disclose the data about how many people live in Hungary under the minimum living age. We obviously know why they're keeping secrets. The reason they're keeping secrets is that if this number went public, to put it mildly, it wouldn't be in line with your success proposal, so without it, a private company on behalf of the trade unions will do this calculation. This is how we know that in 2017, for example, 3.3 million of our compatriots were absent in this country, and this is already a brutal number enough to hold back the data needed to calculate this year. In other words, the government, according to which Hungary is performing better, is hiding poverty. What is the reason for this, fellow Members? What are you afraid of? Reality? Are you afraid that it would turn out that Fidesz is doing better than Hungary? Are you afraid it will turn out that there is a close connection between your enrichment and the poverty of this country? In the last few days, I met an old friend of mine who complained that since 2010, he has been working for a multinational, one of your strategic partners, and he can't get from his net salary of 150 grand a month to one, and he doesn't come out of his pay. And while he was telling me this, I thought of two things. One is that you are planning to take x out of this little salary, saying that you will help the worker save money when the crisis comes. And the other thing that occurred to me was that if this young man weren't my acquaintance, but that of Viktor Orbán, he would have been rich since 2010 even if he hadn't worked for a minute. Today, it seems that the measure of progress is not a measure of talent or diligence, but of Viktor Orbán. The person supported by Viktor Orbán can also be a billionaire with the skills of Lőrinc Mészáros. We have now reached the point, fellow Members, that Lőrinc Mészáros has an interest in construction, which was able to earn an income of HUF 18 billion with only one major physical employee. We got there, fellow Members, that Lőrinc Mészáros' subcontractors are the children of Lőrinc Mészáros. This is how Hungary will become a family business, especially if we add, say, the 32-year-old, but surely István Tiborcz, who worked hard for his whole life, now has 35 billion forints of wealth, although he also has 24 hours of the day, as well as my acquaintance, it is true that my acquaintance is not the son-in-law of Viktor Orbán. And then we didn't talk about the Orbán family's companies, which were just blinking until 2010, and they have been producing billions since then, and Viktor Orbán is taking care of it so much that he doesn't deal with business matters. Let's say, the fact is that I would not call the looting of Hungarians a business matter. Colleagues! Is this the moment when the average voter could ask you: hasn't there been enough, hasn't taken enough money from the Hungarian taxpayers? ! Of course, we know that you would say that you don't, because the corrupt man doesn't know the scale, the corrupt man never tells you that I've stolen enough, the corrupt man will steal until the people have broken their hands metaphorically. Compared to this, the leader of your faction, who is not here right now, Máté Kocsis stole the dry noodles I put on the Prime Minister's desk last week. [[Uproar, interrogation from the ruling parties. Márta Mátrai: Shame on you!]] And if I draw your attention to the fact that you're leaning down for the change, and that's why you can't afford health care, education, pensions, wages, you'll be offended. We can remember when I said here in Parliament that I had never spoken before so many criminals in my life, well, the mustache was shaking, and you should not be offended, fellow Members, but you have to be polite about politics, and that begins, for example, by joining the European Public Prosecutor's Office, but you also say no to that, which is in itself a confession. Colleagues! Since 2010, you have taken one million forints from each employee, taken from the better worker, taken from the socialist worker, but also taken from the Fidesz employee. [[13.20]] You can also shorten your own voters. That's the huge difference between you and me. The difference is, we want to represent everyone, and you want to steal from everyone. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] And if we finally get to the point where not only opposition voters, but also Fidesz voters, will be disturbed by the fact that they're taking away their kitchen money, now, we're going to restore the order of the world, where it's not about who's on the right who's on the left, but who's fair and who's dishonest. We, right-handers, want a Hungary where the rules are very clear, where the hardworking goes forward, the lazy goes back, and the criminal goes to prison. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Flórian Farkas should be there!]] Now, compared to that, the criminal can become a congressman and the diligent leave the country. Well, that's not right, fellow Members, it's not right.
u2019-06-24-10	Dear Parliament, Before I give the floor to Mr Csaba Dömötör, dear Member, you have insulted not only the dignity of this House, but all Hungarians through the House, through the Members of this House. [[Morai and intervention from the opposition benches. Gergely Harvesto: Not me! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2019-06-24-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, As far as poverty statistics are concerned, they are available, not only with the statistics of the HCSO, but also with Eurostat data. On this basis, the number of people at risk of poverty decreased by more than 900 thousand between 2013 and 17 while the proportion of people in severe material deprivation decreased by about half. This is due, among other things, to the creation of more than 800 000 new jobs under civilian governance, and you know it very well. On the other hand, I would like to say to you that, if you are interested in raising wages, you do not want to leave the definition of wages to Brussels and to say one more, then you should also calmly support the government's proposals for tax reductions, such as the reduction of the employer's tax by two percentage points in July. If it's important to raise wages and this is a third request for you, then tell your new allies not to flirt with the idea of raising health, because this has already appeared during the budget debate. The thing is, we have been sitting here for weeks, but I could say that for months, and we have been talking to fellow Members here, that when we hear a speech that is a little, a little bit different from any one on the left. But it looks like if we wait for this, we're gonna have the retirements here. You could have worn a T-shirt in peace. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: It didn't work out this time!]] Which shows that I think the same thing as the eyeballs on the eyeballs. [[Rumors and interruptions in the ranks of Jobbik.]] In an interview the other day, you were talking about giving the Jobbik faction a face in which the electorate recognizes you. If I'm just looking at you, you've already tried to stop the parliamentary session, you've tried to stop the vote, you've sat in the Prime Minister's chair, you've been running dry pasta in this Chamber, you've provoked journalists on the air, and you've even threatened a security guard who's become ill. [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks. György Szi-lágyi: Skandalum!]] Dear Chief of Staff, It's not popularism, it's political hooliganism. Tell me, Mr. Group Leader, why would anyone want to recognize you in this behaviour in Hungary? Why would such behavioral disordered politics be attractive? [[György Szilágyi: Boring!]] It is loud, of course, and this speech was loud, but it has no great support, you can be sure of that, because I think that Hungarians do not like to keep looking for trouble, but expect consistent work. Your speech, by the way, is the manyth proof of Jobbik's chronic identity disorder. They once made a cross. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Worry about yourselves! You're out of the Trianon Memorial!]] And now they're working with those who are constantly attacking the churches. They would have left the European Union once, and now they would have left the definition of wages to Brussels. [[Interjection from Jobbik: You were a better man too!]] And if I understand it correctly, I'd like to outsource justice. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] They once defined themselves as a national party, and now they have become the foundation of the left-wing opposition. It's just the volume changes sometimes, like you're a little louder. Now in this interview, in this interview the other day, you have identified or defined as the main goal that voters can identify with you. Now, with this raging style, with the series of trouble-seeking, it's gonna be hard. Besides, Hungarians do not reward those who turn their backs on them at intervals. So you asked in your speech, you gave the address of how long the government would abuse the voter's patience. The fact is that the government's activities were supported by the majority of voters in the last European elections, and this is an important confirmation, whereas Jobbik is in a spectacular free fall: they fell from the peak of 21 percent to 6 percent. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Did you graduate so many classes?]] And this downhill can also be seen in the style, meaning and tone of the faction leaders. So, from this point of view, we could ask you how long you're using your own electorate's patience. As long as they are warm at the fire of Ferenc Gyurcsány, it will not be easy to answer that. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-24-12	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, Member of the LMP Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech:. The Orbán Government has openly declared its misplaced role in its climate and energy policy. I give the floor to the congresswoman.
u2019-06-24-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Last week, the government's climate and energy policy failed several times: it failed in Brussels, and it failed here, in the Hungarian Parliament, and it passed the exam in a shameless manner. Let's see the first one. After the elections to the European Parliament, special attention is always paid to the first European Council meeting, as the Heads of Government agree on who they want to appoint for the various positions of the European Union, and it is always on the agenda to take stock of the most important political issues facing the European Union. That's how it happened now. The fact that climate change has become a pressing issue indicates that last week there was climate policy among these strategic issues, and that the European Union is committed to more stringent climate targets, is committed to making the economies of the European Union and the economies of its Member States carbon neutral by 2050, which means that they do not emit more carbon dioxide than their absorbing capacities can. After last week's European Council summit, those who hoped that the Hungarian government would finally understand that climate change is one of the most serious and burning challenges of our time. After the spring veto, Viktor Orbán, together with his Czech and Polish colleagues, again prevented the European Union from unitedly supporting the carbon-neutral European economy. It is worth stopping here for a moment, because if we look at the previous European Council, even the German government vetoed the European Union's stricter climate plans. However, the German government was at least wise enough to pay attention to its citizens and to pay attention to the fact that the climate targets in Paris could not be met differently if the Hungarian economy did not switch to carbon neutrality by 2050 or if the Member States of the European Union did not switch to more stringent climate objectives. I must also say that the Hungarian Prime Minister vetoed the stricter climate objectives of the European Union by saying to me last week that the Hungarian Prime Minister here in Parliament replied to the immediate question that he represented the interests of the Hungarian people in Brussels and that he would stand up for meeting the climate targets. It seems that a few days have been sufficient for the Prime Minister to change the government's position and his position, and he stands for the interests of the automotive industry and the interests of the German coal industry, not for the health of the Hungarian people. The Hungarian Prime Minister can also give a very controversial explanation of why he did this, why he vetoed the climate targets. First of all, he spoke about the fact that the automotive industry provides a great deal of jobs. Well, I can only say that the Hungarian economy should not have been so dependent on the automotive industry. The Prime Minister talks about money, saying that the proposal cannot be supported until we know how much resources the European Union can make available to modernise industry. [[13.30]] We're holding hands again, but we're not doing our jobs. And the Prime Minister also talks about how renewable energy costs much more than nuclear energy. First of all, since 2004 the European Union has given Hungary an average of HUF 1 billion per day, among other things, to ensure that Hungary's economy is on a sustainable path, but the government has failed to do so. The government is only serving the interests of the multinationals, making the country completely dependent on the automotive industry, and the government is constantly trying to get as many car manufacturers as possible to come to the country. But I must also deny that nuclear power is cheaper. Special attention should be paid to experts from the European Union and other countries. Future energy is renewable energy, renewable energy is much cheaper than nuclear energy. The costs of nuclear energy should take into account the costs of the whole life cycle, such as installation and removal costs and high-activity waste. I'm asking the government. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] and the government's representatives, when they're willing to see that, and when will they really stand up to the strict climate goals [[The president's ringing again.]] Next to it.
u2019-06-24-14	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-06-24-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We may agree on one thing: it is important for all of us to protect the environment and the climate, and we all want clean air, clean water and a more bearable climate. [[Márta Demeter interrupts.]] And I would also like to draw your attention to this by chance that the Fundamental Law clearly states that we are responsible for our offspring, and therefore we protect the living conditions of future generations by using our natural resources carefully. This is why we consider it important to have a dialogue on climate and environmental protection, and it is a matter where it may be possible to go beyond the framework of normal domestic policy. [[Peter Ungár intervenes.]] [[Peter Ungár intervenes.]] Now that you claim that the government would be in favour of the German coal industry, it does not point in this direction, I do not want to take this seriously. When we talk about measures, it is worth looking at the starting point where we started. Hungary is one of the countries that have significantly increased their economic performance in recent decades by significantly reducing their emissions. You don't say that here. (Peter Ungár intervenes.) All in terms of figures: GDP has increased by 50 percent since 1990, while CO2 emissions have decreased by 32 percent; and it is also a talkative fact that in Hungary, CO2 emissions per capita are 40 percent lower than in Germany, considered to be the leader in this field. As far as Hungarian commitments are concerned, Hungary has already made commitments until 2030, and we can achieve them by achieving results in the area of climate protection, and the Hungarian families do not have to pay any more for energy. By 2030, with the combined use of renewable energy and nuclear energy, 90 percent of domestic electricity production could be carbon-free. At the current summit, it was proposed that the Member States also make commitments by 2050, but they did not explain the financial burden this would entail and the financial burden it would impose on European and Hungarian people. We agree with climate protection efforts, but it is possible, honourable Member, to make responsible commitments if we also know what resources the European Union can make available to modernise industry. Without sufficient resources, overhead costs can be lost, and companies can face a huge burden, which could put them at a huge competitive disadvantage in international competition. [[Lajos Korózs intervenes.]] And then you'll have a much smaller opportunity to raise wages, which you're pushing for, by the way. So, the Hungarian government is open to further proposals aimed at protecting the climate, but this requires further negotiations, which cover all aspects of the consequences and burdens. It is not enough to present sound slogans, there is a need for a deep impact assessment; the stakes are not small. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: That's right!]] Let me give you one example... [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] Let me give you one example that Congressman Ungár is having a good time at this, as if he saw this as a hobby here, which is work for others in Parliament. [[Gergely Harvesto: It's hard to take you seriously!]] So allow me to set an example, honourable Member. While the price of energy has become a third cheaper than in 2010, in Germany, which you often refer to, it has increased by 26 percent, and for industrial consumers it has increased by more than this, by 32 percent. This is a consequence, honourable Member, which must not be kept from the Hungarian people. So, we ask the opposition, each opposition party, to make all kinds of proposals, to also state how much extra expenditure their proposals would put in the hands of Hungarian families. [[Márta Demeter interrupts.]] We would like to think that they have learned from the results of the election and are willing to consider at least sometimes the aspects of the Hungarian people. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: You shouldn't cut down the trees. Márta Demeter interrupts.]] Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-24-16	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Lajos Korózs, MSZP Group asked for a speech on current affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-24-17	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Health care is booming, not just health, but if we look at last week's news, three or four of them were definitely front-page stories that I think we shouldn't leave out. One is that the Traumatological Society expressed its concern in a very serious statement that they would no longer tolerate deteriorating supply conditions, demand wage increases, immediate wage increases, and demand that accident care be paid at its value. The latter should be accompanied by a few unscrupulous sentences. One expert pointed out that the state should pay at least one-and-a-half times the minimum for the surgeries that are being performed, given that they receive much less money for the work they have done than it actually costs. But it was the same front page, and my colleague Varju also mentioned the unblessed state of emergency centres. It is well known that there are four such centres in Budapest, but health management does not deal with how to replace it with professionals, ensure the missing conditions, but they do deal with the EMMI Ministry to explain why the three supply centres will be good when the four were few. I think that is a rather weak argument compared to what we should face here in the capital. This is what the Medical Chamber wants, which has also seen the last week's public opinion poll, where the Chamber's leadership makes it clear that they are now assessing the willingness of doctors to demonstrate and are willing to resign from the voluntary overwork in Hungarian: they are not doing anything other than the mandatory tasks to be performed. It is well known that in May alone, 84 doctors who have resigned from mandatory... and volunteered to overwork and are only willing to do mandatory overwork. As I mentioned, they also asked if they were willing to take part in a national demonstration. I'd like to quote the president of the Medical Chamber, he literally said last week, I think, on Friday, the thread was torn, so we'll take a look at the ground, and then we'll see how it goes. This was said by István Éger, President of the Hungarian Medical Chamber, and then added: . It seemed that there was an effective agreement to which they said that we would sign in May. However, this was cancelled. All conditions for the settlement of the situation are given outside the political will. We have also said several times that it would take a great deal of thousands of billions, including wages and hospital debts, to make up for the whole sector. It is not passing, my fellow Members, that they demand a thousand billion in the Medical Chamber. In addition, what I see is that Hungarian health is clearly growing. About a good six months ago, three quarters of a year ago, I myself drew attention here several times to the fact that if the government does nothing but do it in a different direction, in the opposite direction, even if it does not do anything, Hungarian health will become two levels. Today we can clearly say that in addition to public education and higher education, health is being cast out, and I believe that this is a crime against society. Dear fellow Members, I see in many places that I sense that the state is not working, and the government is not on top of the situation. You may have seen this weekend that Heves County, Borsod County, and several counties are raining. Please, in Heves County, several settlements were flooded with water and mud and mud, Egerszalok swimming in mud and mud, Andornaclatlan had water of at least a foot and a half in the trenches along the road and on the road, and I might add, the same was the case in Nagyvisnyo and several cities in Borsod County. Here, please, it is a matter of not putting up with the natural disaster, but of preparing for it, and not building stadiums, not glueing the country with Soros posters, but carrying out tasks that reduce such a situation to the smallest possible level. [[13.40]] But I can say the same about the MÁV: trains are late, trains are dirty, trains stink; at the steering window and in the document offices it is not possible to simply settle cases, because out of the nine windows there are only one or two people who talk to customers. You can't find a teacher in the country, you can't find a kindergarten teacher, you can't catch them with lasso. Please, the experts say that the interest organisations say that 840 kindergarten educators are missing from the country, but likewise there are no health professionals, no doctors, no social workers. [[Dr. Pál Völner: In the time of Gyurcsány!]] Answer me that, and don't go past eight years, Secretary of State. [[Dr. Pál Völner: We're almost out of MSZP! The president's ringing the bell to indicate the end of the time.]] And please don't repeat what you said to Congressman Varju. To these problems...
u2019-06-24-18	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-06-24-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You could have said your last sentence singing, Congressman, that you would definitely abolish the past, that you used to sing it, and now you don't ask the voters to remember what was going on when you were responsible for health care, education and all the other questions. [[Lajos Korózs: They've been ruling for nine years!]] More than that... [[Lajos Korózs: Bloody hell, trains are running late, talk about that! The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2019-06-24-20	Congressman, if you'll excuse yourself, we have an answer. [[Miklós Soltész: Priznicet!]] And we're in Parliament. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2019-06-24-21	Thank you very much. Apparently, he's really, really violent about it. [[István Szilárd Németh: Revolutionary atmosphere!]] if anyone remembers what you did in this country before 2010, honourable Member, when you had the opportunity to raise the standard of living of pensioners in Hungary to a noticeable extent. You've taken a month's pension from pensioners, Your Honour. You voted here too, voted by all MSZP members, honourable Member, by roll-call vote [[Lajos Korózs: Lies!]] all of them took a month's pension from Hungarian pensioners. You can yell that this is a lie, Congressman, the louder you shout, the more discredited you make yourself in front of the Hungarian pensioners, so please continue to do so in as many places as possible. You do not usually believe the various Hungarian statements, but you only believe the OECD statement, honourable Member. I didn't tell Congressman Varju that, so I'd be happy to tell you. The OECD statement states that between 2003 and 2009, in the period of your governance, [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: That was ten years ago, I beg you!]] among developed countries, only and only Hungary was the country where health expenditure per capita was reduced between OECD countries. And if we compare this with after 2010, then we see, yes, now pay attention to the fact that the seventh has risen to the highest degree. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: You should tell that to the people on the waiting list.]] So what you're saying is how good it would be if your policy were to be implemented again, which, according to the OECD, reduced health expenditure per capita, and how bad it is that the policy of the current government is being implemented [[Lajos Korózs: Hospital departments are being closed! They didn't lock up hospital wards in our time.]] Which, in spite of the fact that you left behind the situation that you left behind, was still able to bring the seventh highest rise. The people are most afraid of your return, honourable Member, of your visitation fee, hospital daily return, honourable Member.
u2019-06-24-22	Congressman Korós, please refrain, there is an answer, as much as it bothers you. I don't remember Mr. Secretary interrupting while you were talking. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: It's better!]]
u2019-06-24-23	Honourable Congressman, With the current volume, you can't replace your own steering performance or undo what happened at that time. You may be very loud, but you despise people if you think that Hungarian people are unable to compare one government's performance with another. As the OECD compared the performance of the Hungarian government with that of all the other governments, it came to the conclusion that the health policy of the Hungarian government was the worst before 2010, because there was no other one where it decreased. As international surveys have shown, your old-new returnee, Ferenc Gyurcsány, has, in my memory, been the 16th worst prime minister of the past period worldwide, but he is once again putting the entire left behind him, because it is not enough for you to admit that only 15 people around the world have been able to offer worse economic policy, worse government performance than he is, as Prime Minister or President; it is okay, you are behind him. What people are putting at risk if your policy is to be implemented is, among other things, wage increases in health care. In 2012-13, we achieved 27 percent wage increases for the workers, 26.5% for the 16th, 12 percent in 17th, 8 percent in 18th, 8 percent again this year, a 14 percent for the first time next year, and then an additional 20 percent for the second half of the year, and then an additional 30 percent from 1st January 2022. So, this year and the following years, we can achieve a total wage increase of 72 per cent for the workers. We were able to achieve a 27-percent wage increase between 12-13.In 2016, we increased the average basic salary of doctors by HUF 107 thousand.In 2017, we raised the basic salary of doctors by HUF 100,000.This is another two-and-a-half-fold increase in the past period, if I have been watching it since 2010, honourable Member! Who made 159 thousand forints as a health worker under your administration [[The president's ringing the bell to indicate the end of the time.]] Today he earns 334,000, who, as a doctor, made 364 thousand forints in your period, now earns 853,000 forints. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-24-24	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, To speak before the agenda, Mr Bence Tordai, Dialogue Group: on current affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-24-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Former mayor Gergely Christmas candidate has a programme point that seems to have hit the very life of Fidesz, this is the Tiborcz tax. Since you announced that you will be taxed in Budapest from October onwards on the property, luxury villas, worth more than half a billion dollars, that the NER billionaires have put up for themselves, often illegally and almost always with illegal and immoral money, the Fidesz Media has taken every means to attack and destroy Gergely Christmas. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Momentum would even take the apartments...]] Until István Tiborcz, the son-in-law of Prime Minister István Tiborcz, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, was suddenly a billionaire on his own feet, more precisely on our feet, the newest young man, one of the hundred richest Hungarians, whose wealth gained 35 billion in a few years, resented the name of a tax on him. Indeed, this tax is very necessary, because it is not enough that the society of Budapest, as the society of the country is divided, and on one side there are the raging thousands, and on the other side, the miserable millions, this vast wealth, which has been put together with our money, is pushed into our faces, bragging about it, who is in charge of their luxury villas, and they go away to the point where even the streets are expropriated, so that only they can park there. And this Tiborcz tax is exactly about taking back to the country, and in this case we are taking back to Budapest the money that has been taken from people through various public procurements, state and EU tenders. István Tiborcz is an excellent example of this, as he founded his assets by pulling 13 000 million forints out of the pocket of Hungarian taxpayers as a result of the orchestrated series of fraud, known as the Elios scandal. Originally, it was meant to harm EU taxpayers, but then, after you realized that this scandal was untenable, after OLAF, at the initiative of the dialogueary MEP, Benedek, investigated the matter and sent practically an investigative document corresponding to a complaint and even an indictment document, unfortunately to Péter Polt, it turned out that it was unthinkable that the Union would reward this series of crimes by HUF 13 billion. So you withdrew the requests for support from István Tiborcz and Elios, and rather made the Hungarian taxpayers pay for these damages, this huge fortune. So this is how the typical NER knight gets rich, so a member of the Orbán family gets rich, and in this way we have to levy the Tiborcz tax on the wealthy. This Tiborcz tax is about the fact that anyone who builds more than 500 million properties in Budapest will pay hard for it. And of course, there are decent rich people in Budapest, and they won't even resent the fact that they're giving back something to society in exchange for what they've received from it, for the social infrastructure, for the market that has made them rich. [[13.50]] Just those crying and moaning like István Tiborcz, who must now share their Jewish wealth in a fair manner with the community at least in part. Gergely Christmas responded to István Tiborcz's announcement threatening legal action that: István Tiborcz resented our stepping on his own feet. That's his right. And Budapesters have the right not only to resent it, but also to end the fact that Fidesz buffoons who are rich in public money, without their own performance, are pushing their wealth into our faces. Well, now we're gonna take back what they took from the joint. We thought that taking him home to Viktor Orbán's son-in-law would be better than giving him back into the joint. That's why he's the perfect name tag for this tax. We're in the middle of a lawsuit. In the meantime, István Tiborcz, the Butchers and the Garanchek should start to put aside, because from October we will collect everything they owe to the people of Budapest. From October, Tarlos can no longer protect them. This is what the Tiborcz tax is about, and this is what the Budapest programme, which is represented by Gergely Christmas, is about, and this is what the Dialogue programme is about in general, because as a green left party, we cannot stand by and let the hundred richest Hungarians have more money than the 5 million poorest Hungarians. These are your numbers. There are 4589 billion of the hundred richest Hungarians. It accounts for about a thousand billion of them, which the NER knights have stolen from Hungarian taxpayers in the last nine years. And the other half of the country needs less money to guarantee its existence at all. So we must remedy this injustice in Hungary, and we must also remedy this injustice in Budapest. We will begin this in the autumn of 2019. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you very much.
u2019-06-24-26	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2019-06-24-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm really glad you brought that up. Everyone knows very well that when they hide behind such a policy proposal, they are thinking about a general tax increase, a general property tax increase. This is clearly included in your programme and the statements made by your advisors. It is said that more burdens must be placed on capital and wealth. It is also included in the Democratic Coalition's programme that there is a need for a single property tax. In the LMP program, in 2018, they talk about property taxes. But it is even more talkative about what has already been voted on once in the time of left-wing governments. You have voted on a property tax, it was 30 million forints, the limit of your deposit. That means that if you introduced it now and did not hide behind this proposal, if you introduced the same proposal now, it would affect virtually a large part of the apartments in Budapest and the apartments in the country. We say no to that. We say no to tax increases. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] That's what you're obsessed with. It is a strange feeling now that I feel that I agree with Tibor Szanyi, but that is what I feel about the rest of his speech. He said that the political set of topics on the left had dried up, and that they were chasing after the smaller craps on the left. There's something to that. If we're looking for a reason, it's probably because the left-wing casting has started again, they're fighting again. This whole thing that's being presented is more like a soap opera with ZS. If we were to recall the contents of the previous episode, what happened was that the Gyurcsány Party initially supported Gergely Christmas, then she was stabbed in the back after the European election, and a former journalist was nominated instead. They even had a fight about telling each other about it or not telling each other, and how many minutes, how many hours ago they told me about it. Meanwhile, many left-wing politicians attacked the new candidate of the Gyurcsány Party, saying that he is a populist, that there is no cover for his program, and that it is impossible anyway. Gergely Christmas, who was offended, said that she was unprepared for DK's candidacy. DK fought back by wanting to cancel free parking for Christmas. The answer also came:. Kálmán Olga does not have a program, said Christmas Gergely. So that's where the clowning is now. We don't want to clean up this left-wing autumn. We would like to draw attention to the sentence of Mrs Kunhalmi alone, who says that it is all about Ferenc Gyurcsány wanting to get involved in the affairs of the capital. Well, there's got to be something in that one. First they took the left-wing scene in Brussels, and now they want to take the whole left through Budapest. That's what I'm talking about. Nothing will be expensive in this pursuit, they will allow themselves all the means. As much as they want to turn the capital into a clown, I would also like to tell you that Budapest is not the same as the Metropolitan Grand Circus. [[Gergely Harvesto: Tragedy!]] At least sometimes, in the big fight, show a sign that Hungarians' lives matter to you. There is another phenomenon that I would like to address, and that is that the left is repeatedly insulting the electorate in this big fight. We've been sitting here for many times, and neither you nor anyone from the MSZP has apologized for ratting. [[Interviews from the ranks of Fidesz: Shame!]] The reason I'm bringing this up separately is that if you pass such phenomena without saying a word, they're telling you that it's okay, and it's okay with more than that. You were brain-dead a few days ago here at the National Assembly, but the insult pump didn't stop here. The new opposition candidate in Esztergom simply wormed down his political opponents. Then there is the new candidate for the Momentum: he barely came out of the box marked SZDSZ, and we already know that he called Hungary brain dead, and the right-wing voters droid. But that wasn't enough, his party even got the idea of taking the apartments away from the Fidesz people. [[Interview from Fidesz: Proletariat dictatorship!]] Ladies and gentlemen, Why don't you just say "so far" and stop? Why do they not refer to Article XX? For the darkest hours of the century? Why are they silent? Is that because you'd be confiscating apartments? 'Cause if that's the case, it's a commie tempo. [[Intruder from Fidesz: Komchi! That's right.]] It seems that left-wing and liberal parties cannot bring down enough defeats to realize that insulting voters is not an option. However, their massive election defeat is a good opportunity to press the redesign button. We wish you all the strength to do this. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-06-24-28	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, on behalf of the KDNP Group, has applied for a pre-meeting address:. 130 years ago in the Interparlamentary Union. Mr. Vice President, you have the floor.
u2019-06-24-29	Your Honour, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Interparlamental Union was established as the oldest and most comprehensive organisation in the world as the predecessor of all parliamentary and intergovernmental cooperation that exists today in the framework of the Paris Conference on 29 June 1889. We can all be proud that our country, through Viktor Hagara of Magosliget, who was delegated to the conference, could be one of the nine founding countries through the representative of the district of the then Hungarian Parliament in Nagyszőlős. However, we have something to be proud of today, because this year we were the first to remember the 130th anniversary in the world with Mrs Gabriela Cuevas Barron, President of the IPU and Martin Chungong, Secretary General of the IPU. The main ideas of the establishment of the Interparlamental Union, democracy, the strengthening of parliamentary institutions, peace and security, and the promotion of international cooperation, are of paramount importance today. At present, the IPU brings together 179 laws around the world, nearly 46,000 Members of Parliament on Earth, and thus it may not be exaggeration to claim that international organisations are now the most legitimized organization in almost endless numbers. It is our duty to take advantage of this, as the continuous dialogue of the world's parliamentary legislators is essential to international cooperation based on mutual respect and to overcome global problems. The latter issues, in particular poverty eradication, nuclear disarmament, the migration crisis, climate change or the fight against extremism and terrorism, are constantly on the agenda of the Interparlamental Union, trying to draw the world's attention to the importance of these often sensitive and politically charged issues. It does this by not wanting to override the centuries-old political sovereignty of the nation states, but by developing proposals for solutions in accordance with national specificities. [[14.00]] In addition to discussing global issues, the Interparlamental Union, through bilateral friendly sections, also provides an opportunity for the members of national legislation to gain a deeper insight into each other's work, thus transferring well-functioning practices, regulatory models and integrating them into their national legal systems. The activities of 77 groups of two or multilateral friends operating in the Hungarian Parliament indicate that we are on the right track in this area. Ladies and gentlemen, On the occasion of the 130th anniversary on the initiative of the Hungarian Parliament, the Hungarian Post issued a parliamentary block on 4 June, with which we wanted to commemorate the relations between Parliament and the Interparlamental Union, the high importance of parliamentary diplomacy. From the booklet presenting the double block, my fellow Members and all ethnic advocates will receive a copy of respect, which they could all find on their desks here in the Chamber. The stamp block depicts the building of the Hungarian Parliament and the headquarters of the IPU in Geneva, while the booklet describes the 130 years of Hungarian legislation in the IPU in Hungarian and the six official languages of the UN. The commemorative stamp issued by Parliament in honor of the 130th anniversary will be sent together with the letter of the Speaker of the House to all Parliamentary Presidents of the world. Please welcome the ceremonial stamp as a commemoration of the existence of the international organisation and the 130th anniversary of the Hungarian Parliament's membership of the IPU, together with the wishes of the Hungarian president of the IPU and all my fellow vice-chairmen. Thank you for your kind attention.
u2019-06-24-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-06-24-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, for drawing our attention to this very important double anniversary. In June this year, President Gabriela Cuevas Barron visited Hungary and Mr Martin Chungong, Secretary General of the Interparlamental Union. They came to attend the parliamentary commemoration meeting on the occasion of the establishment of the Interparlamental Union and the 130th anniversary of the Hungarian Parliament's membership of the IPU, as well as the issue ceremony on which the commemorative stamp proposed and received by the Vice-President was presented. Together with the President of the Parliament, Mr László Kövér, a photo exhibition in Hungarian and English presenting the history of the international organisation of parliaments and the activities of the Parliament in the IPU was opened. László Kövér was then discussed with Speaker László and received Madam President and Secretary-General on a courtesy visit, Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade. At this meeting, they agreed that the role and importance of parliamentary diplomacy is increasing in the ever-changing world political and economic situation. There are many tensions around the world that parliamentary democracy has a wide range of tools to address. The Minister for Foreign Affairs drew the President of the Interparlamental Union's attention to the fact that one of the keys to Hungary's competitiveness in a rapidly changing world is the stable parliamentary background behind the government, which helps to make rapid and reasonable decisions and decisions. After the event, the President and the Secretary-General thanked László Kövér, President of the Parliament, Hungarian legislature and the Hungarian IPU group for their role in the 130th anniversary commemoration. The website of the international organisation deals with the Hungarian event in a separate article and highlights Hungary's pioneering role, as well as the fact that it was the first to remember and launch the round anniversary of the IPU worldwide. On the occasion of the 130th anniversary, the Hungarian parliamentary stamp block commemorates the relations between Parliament and the Interparlamental Union and the high importance of parliamentary diplomacy. As my fellow Member, Vice-President János Latorcai, who is also the vice-president of the Hungarian IPU group, said that this commemorative stamp, the 130th anniversary commemorative stamp, will be sent together with the letter of the President of Parliament to all the Presidents of Parliament, 79 two Chambers and 114 one Chambers of Laws from 193 countries, to some 272 Parliamentary Presidents. In connection with the 130th anniversary, the Interparlamental Union will also organize a photo exhibition in the UN building in Geneva and New York. In agreement with the leaders of the IPU, we initiated the publication of the Hungarian Parliament in the United Nations in New York through the 130th anniversary exhibition. This is planned to take place in July at a high-level political forum on sustainable development goals, where Parliament will be represented by a parliamentary delegation. Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, allow me to thank the current and former Members of the Parliament for the work they have done and done in the Interparlamentary Union, with which Hungary's reputation has been enhanced and enhanced. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-06-24-32	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Máté Kocsis, Head of the Group, Fidesz Group, asked for a pre-meeting address. Mr. Team Leader, you have the floor.
u2019-06-24-33	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Before I turn to the substance of the speech before the agenda, I would like to respond to the words of Congressman Peter James. I've listened to your speech before the agenda, and although you're not here right now, there may be someone from Jobbik who will send you the message. Until now, he is very proud that he has put a package of dry pasta on the Prime Minister's table last week, and because he has also mentioned me as the one who took this package from the Prime Minister's table, I am therefore making a feeble and hopeless attempt to explain to Congressman James why this has happened. My parents taught me that food is not a toy, we don't throw it, we don't make it a subject of mockery, we don't make it an object of hurting others, and we don't make it a symbol of political performances. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Therefore, we have asked the Office Commissioner's Service to be thanked with due respect, but return it to the Jobbik faction, and I would like to say to Congressman James that we will not be partners for his dirty-mouthed political performances in the future. [[Intercoms in the ranks of Fidesz: That's right! Shame on you. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] It is an additional addition that, like Bangóné, who is still sitting here in Parliament, even though he is not in the Parliament, has not returned his mandate, with this noodling action, he has insulted millions of pro-government voters again, Mr.Péter Jakab. But what my personal hope is that Mr. James may still be the Attila of Jobbik Retkes is just as suitable as it seems, if that name tells you anything else, it will turn off the lights in the once-beautiful party. [[Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks.]] Turning to the speech before today's agenda, nearly 53 percent of the people who are pro-government in the elections to the European Parliament are, after all, commitments, direction and tasks, and the European negotiations that will determine the next five years in terms of both persons and directions have started last week. One of our important commitments was that we made it clear that we would not support a candidate with plans to support and encourage migration, and we also agreed that there would be no leader of the Union who would not give respect to Hungary and the countries of V4. We can safely say that the V4 alliance is the strongest alliance of countries in the European Union, and these two commitments that we have made together have been successful: Mr Weber and Mr Timmermans have failed, they do not meet the expectations of the majority of Hungarians and the Hungarian people, and it is good news for Hungary that they have failed, because they have not represented the policy on which the Hungarian people have given an overwhelming majority mandate. It is historical that the V4 also agreed not to support the High Candidate system itself, as it is contrary to the Lisbon Treaty and does not support the election of Manfred Weber to the Commission. [[14.10]] Mr Weber said himself, before the elections to the European Parliament, that he did not wish to be President of the Commission with the votes of Hungarians. [[Gergely Harvester: He doesn't want Fidesz!]] They are Hungarians too, Mr Arató, I will help you. And if you accept one of Europe's greatest election victories, then a European Commission high candidate does not say that. We can make this request generously, we do not support Mr Weber, and with this, his chances have deteriorated significantly, and perhaps even his downfall. We are saddened to see that Mr Weber has turned away from the fundamental Christian Democratic and Christian values of the People's Party. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: You too! He's your buddy!]] It has openly declared war on the governments of EU Member States, and we are saddened to see that it wants to represent the European Union as a whole by having serious debates with some Member States of the European Union. In a few months, Mr Weber has made himself unfit for the post, so we need to be clear that we need leaders who have not attacked any Member State in recent years. The V4 also agreed on this. The V4 have no specific candidates, but several other candidates are considered acceptable. I would also like to emphasise that we have undertaken the elections, together with the electorate, to take action against any pro-immigration plan that threatens Christian culture and the security of Europe. This is why European representatives of Fidesz are calling for the withdrawal of the migrant card plan. The European Union mandate given by Hungarian voters, as I said, also means a commitment, direction and task, and it sets out the values to be taken. This is what we will represent in the European Parliament's work, and we will also look for the Commission's leaders. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-24-34	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to what has been said.
u2019-06-24-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We are after the EU summit, and indeed before the EU summit, and European leaders must make important decisions after the elections. Allow me to explain the Government's position on the most important issues. The Council, which brings together Heads of Government, will then put forward a strategy that is considered to be a guiding principle in the long term. The Hungarian government has also sent proposals to this effect, and all these proposals come from the result of the election. We therefore propose, among other things, that national powers be respected in the area of immigration, as well as national powers in economic matters, and, among other things, that the basic strategic document include the protection of Christian values. It may be a little modest now, but I will say that it is worth listening to the Hungarians' voice in the debate on such a long-term strategy, because, for example, the Hungarian Prime Minister talked about the dangers of immigration before the start of the migration crisis in 2014, for example, before the start of the migration crisis, stressing that migration should not be managed, but stopped, because Europe does not need it. At the time, he said that Europe belongs to Europeans. We want to apply these principles not only in long-term strategic basic documents, but also in personal matters, so it is an important achievement that, as we stand today, the left-wing candidate of pro-immigration will not be the President of the European Commission, and it also seems unlikely that he will be a President of the European Commission who has insulted Hungarian voters by saying that he does not count on the support of Hungarians. What I can say about our aspects is that we want a President of the Commission who respects the independence and self-determination of nations, who stands up to illegal immigration and who builds on Europe's Christian roots and traditions. This is what the Hungarians entrusted us with on 26 May, and the majority gave the Hungarian representatives and, by the way, the government the power to do so. One of the fundamental circumstances of the current negotiations is that the Visegrád countries are united. This has not always been the case, and despite the fact that their leaders belong to different party families, and this adds even more to the value of cooperation. The V4 are resisting the efforts to share that we are experiencing, and they will soon reconvene before the next summit. This is also an encouraging development before the next long-term seven-year budgetary debate. As far as climate protection is concerned, Hungary is committed to protecting the climate and the environment. It fulfils its 2030 commitments. As far as further commitments are concerned, there are several preconditions; for example, to decide what resources will be available for the development of industry. It is not possible to assume obligations that are not clarified. We cannot agree to an agreement whose circumstances are unclear and would put an excessive burden on Hungarian families, for example, by increasing energy prices. Here, too, I would like to give the example that, while energy prices have fallen by a third since 2010, it has increased by 26 percent in Germany and by more than 30 percent for industrial consumers. It also shows that all social and economic aspects and consequences must be taken into account in such long-term, decades of commitments. Finally, after our own responsibilities, allow me to take the liberty of raising a few points for the opposition. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai, standing up, says, "Yes, my dear Secretary of State?"]] We would continue to ask the opposition not to represent abroad in Hungary, but Hungary in Brussels, because they have many initiatives that do not yet point in this direction. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Vada! For example, they want to block the appointment of Hungarians or, for example, their proposal to decide on EU funds for Hungary, preferably not here, in Hungary, but in Brussels. [[Gergely Harvester: Because it's stolen, that's why!]] They're unprecedented. They do not serve the interests of Hungary. So, we would like to ask you not to drill important Hungarian issues, and not to support those who attacked Hungary, and not to appear to applaud everything that is bad for the government, so it is bad for the country. [[Intruder from DK's ranks: Alas, alas! Gergely Harvesto: The other way around! What's bad for the government is good for the country!]] If I say this out of line with the outcome of the European election, it sounds like I am asking you to respect the Hungarian majority's will. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-24-36	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2019-06-24-37	Dear Parliament, Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: Péter Ungár, LMP; Zsolt Nyitrai, Fidesz; Lajos Rig, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Karpát, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik. On the day before the agenda tomorrow, the following representatives came forward: Gergely Arató, DK; Márta Demeter, LMP; Lajos Korózs, MSZP; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Bence Tordai, Dialogue; István Hollik, KDNP; László Böröcz, Fidesz. He applied for a speech after the agenda tomorrow: Gergely Farkas, Jobbik.
u2019-06-24-38	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time shall be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Please take your seats and check that your card has been placed in the voting machine. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal for a derogation from house rules. At today's meeting, the House Committee initiated the Parliament's resolution on LIII of 2017 on prevention and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. T/6597. In the course of the negotiation of the No.3 proposal, move away from the house rules in such a way that the final vote can take place on tomorrow's day. A derogation from the house rules was proposed by T/6597/2. You can get to know him on the website. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, four-fifths of the Members present need to vote in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament to contribute to the departure from the house rules in T/6597/2. On the basis of a number of recommendations. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament accepted the derogation from the house rule by 150 unanimous votes in favour. [[14.20]] Dear Parliament, In accordance with our agreed decision, amendments can be tabled today for 16 hours and 20 minutes. The consolidated debate on the bill will take place as the last item on today's sitting, the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a motion to amend the agenda. The Fidesz Group has proposed that the agenda for the extraordinary meeting of Parliament be supplemented by the 2017 LIII on the prevention and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. T/6597. The proposal is to be dealt with by way of derogation from the provisions of the decision-making rules, as set out in the proposal. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I find that the Parliament has accepted my proposal by a unanimous majority. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda with the amendment adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I note that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda proposal. Dear Parliament, A decision on a personal proposal will not take place today. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Ungár asked for the floor in the framework of a point of order, but he indicated that he would withdraw from his statement of order. Dear Parliament, Now, at 2:21 p.m., we move on to interpellation and immediate questions. Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Property Management without a wallet:. What can change the national strategic significance of a sector? It's an address. By answering the interpellation, the Prime Minister appointed Mr.Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, who is competent and competent according to the subject. Tamás Vargha, State Secretary, responds to the interpellation at the request of the Minister. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2019-06-24-39	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The economic, employment and weight of vehicle production in Hungary is indisputable in the field of road vehicle production. Today, these vehicle manufacturers mostly manufacture passenger cars, almost exclusively owned by multinational companies, working as tiny gears in the machinery of large international vehicle manufacturing. However, the production of vehicles not only involves the production of passenger cars, but also includes segments such as bus, trolley or railway vehicle production, including specialised railway vehicles: HÉV trains, metros, trams, coach-wheeled rails, small railway stations, and we could also list the sectors that had a centuries-old tradition in Hungary. In 2014, Bence Tuzson, the State Secretary for Public Service today announced that the State would acquire a majority stake in Dunakeszi Vehicle Repair Ltd., which is why railway vehicle production is an area of national strategic importance. At the time of the sale of the company, several leading Fidesz politicians commented on the matter and consistently said that, in addition to the primary purpose of the transaction, i.e. strengthening the domestic railway vehicle production, the aim is to preserve jobs in the plant as well. I was shocked to read about all of this at 1312/2019. Government Resolution No. 1 under which Dunakeszi Vehicle Repair Ltd. The shares of the Hungarian State and the shares of the Hungarian State owned by the Hungarian State will be sold. The Government Decision provides that Dunakeszi Vehicle Repair Ltd. the contract in force with the MÁV must be kept in force, but the government decision does not provide for employees of the company, i.e. the retention of existing jobs. Together with the shares, the properties used by the company will also be sold, of course without competitive tendering. So I ask the Secretary of State: how can the interests of nation strategy be enforced against an owner independent of a state? If the national strategy interest can be enforced against an owner independent of a state, then why did the company have to be purchased from the former owner for tax forints in 2014? How can jobs and workers be maintained if this is not a condition for sales? What is the cause of the rush to sell by 30 June 2019, i.e. 32 days after the Government decision has been issued? I'm waiting for an answer in which I'm asking you to answer my questions specifically and not to talk about anything else. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-24-40	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Tamás Vargha, State Secretary, responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-06-24-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, This agreement, which we are talking about, represents the biggest business in Hungary so far in the history of the production of Hungarian railway vehicles. In this context, due to this, the Egyptian State Railway Undertaking commissioned 1300 railway wagons to be manufactured by Dunakeszi Vehicle Repair Ltd. and Russian Transmasholding Hungary Zrt. created as a consortium. Under this agreement, more than 50% of the value represented by railway wagons is produced here in Hungary. Thus, more than 650 railway wagons will be produced by Dunakeszin and thus provide opportunities for Hungarian workers and Hungarian jobs will be preserved. With the appearance of the Russian company group, Dunakeszi Vehicle Repair Ltd. a very serious new international market will be opened before it, thanks to the fact that this group of companies is one of the most important players in railway vehicle manufacturing in Europe and their products are known worldwide. It is therefore completely understandable and clear that, with the participation of such a company, a company that had previously produced only on the market in Hungary can obtain export opportunities that will make the company in Hungary sustainable in the long term and provide an opportunity for the company to continue to expand its activities and operate continuously. Thanks to this new mandate and the continuous expansion, new jobs will be created in Dunakeszin and its immediate environment, the country's export performance will increase, and Hungary's mechanical engineering suppliers will also have an additional opportunity to invest in Hungary. Thanks to the economic policy efforts of recent years, Hungary is today a sure point in the world. As an investor, Hungarian and foreign companies should choose our country, as they choose security and political stability. And nothing proves this successful economic policy better than that 2018 has been one of the most successful years of investment promotion. No such investment of this value has ever come to Hungary. In the last year alone, 98 large investments have been made through our investment promotion system, representing a total value of HUF 138 billion. At the established workplaces, companies paid an average wage of HUF 425 700, which is 40 percent higher than the 2017 data. And thanks to this economic policy, Hungarian GDP grew by 5.3 percent in the first quarter of 2019, with which Hungary reached the third fastest growth rate in the European Union. Mr President, in his speech, you mentioned jobs. I have already mentioned that jobs are being preserved and new jobs are being created with this investment. In comparison, if we look back at the 2010 data, when there was 12.5 percent unemployment in Hungary, and the Orbán government took over the country in this way, the livelihoods of many families were in danger. This unemployment is now 3.8 percent, which means almost full employment, and with this result Hungary has reached the third lowest unemployment rate in the European Union, which means that those who want to work in Hungary today will find work, and this is essential, because if there is work, then there is everything: living is guaranteed and people's self-esteem is rising. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[14.30]]
u2019-06-24-42	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-06-24-43	Mr President, unfortunately, I am unable to accept the answer, as Mr Secretary of State's reply has messed up the situation even more. Secretary of State, I don't understand. Let's see what's going on. The Hungarian State buys Dunakeszi Vehicle Repair Company with public money. The Hungarian State and the Hungarian State own a part of the business. This purchase takes place in 2014, and in the last five years this repairer has been maintained, which can be a very good repairer, as you have just said that a big deal has hit, and 650 cars from 1300 railway cars will be produced in this plant. Well, what's the point of a fat business like this suddenly selling the property? [[Dr. László György Lu-kács: Russians!]] Wouldn't it be worth it for the Hungarian State to conduct this business? Did you have to give the Russians this deal? How do they preserve jobs and create new jobs? What kind of jobs? Will the migrant Ukrainian migrant workers be coming down again, Mr. Secretary of State? I simply don't think that this was a business appropriate to the Hungarian state. Shame on you! [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-06-24-44	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply by 110 yes, 31 votes against, with 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Zita Gurmai, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister with the title of the Istanbul Convention on Violence against Women: Results and Challenges. By answering the interpellation... One moment, please. [[It's a lot of noise. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Will all men answer us?]] Please understand. We have a meeting to discuss. One second, please. We're in the middle of a meeting. [[Dr. Gurmai Zita: Should I wait standing or sitting? Defiance. It's a short break.]] Thank you for your understanding. So, Honourable Parliament, the Prime Minister has entrusted László Trócsányi Minister of Justice with responsibility and competence to answer the interpellation. At the request of Minister Pál Völner, State Secretary, he responds to the interpellation. I'll give the floor to the congresswoman.
u2019-06-24-45	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Dear fellow Members, The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is expected to adopt my report on violence against women: results and challenges. The report mentions that violence against women is a manifestation of deep-rooted inequality between women and men in addition to human rights violations. The Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention, Combating and Domestic Violence against Women, which entered into force in 2014, is the most advanced and comprehensive international legal instrument in this area. The Convention was ratified by 34 Member States of the Council of Europe and signed by 11 other EU Member States. The report highlights the positive impact of the Convention as it draws attention to the need to combat violence against women and requires States Parties to introduce high legislative and political standards. On 14 March 2014, Hungary signed the Convention, but the Parliament rejected the inclusion of proposals for ratification on several occasions. Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, who will now answer, answered my written question: we consider the content of the Istanbul Convention to be very important, but in order to recognise an agreement as binding on ourselves, we need to assess the internal environment, the ratification of the Convention has required cooperation from all governments. The need to take legislative and other government measures for ratification should be constantly examined and the necessary budgetary resources assessed. A few days after Mr Völner's reply, Vice-President Szilárd Németh said, unfortunately, that as long as there is a Fidesz majority parliament, the Istanbul Convention will not pass. According to the reason, the treaty is not suitable for controlling stalkers, and it attacks the traditional family model directly and tries to legislate gender philosophy. As you can see, a number of misconceptions and misinterpretations have come to light regarding the ratification of the Istanbul Convention. These have been contested on a number of occasions by professional organisations. In view of the above, I would like to ask the Secretary of State what the Government's position is on ratification. Should the State Secretary's positive, supportive response or Szilárd Németh's negative response be taken as a basis? [[Németh Szilárd István: This latter!]] How is the general government cooperation highlighted by the Secretary of State, which is necessary for ratification of the Convention? How is the assessment of the necessary budgetary resources? With all due respect, I would ask the Prime Minister and the Government to disperse the misconceptions and misinterpretations of the Convention. Now that the Convention provides an opportunity for dialogue and professional consultation, consider submitting it to the Parliament with a view to ratifying it. Thank you.
u2019-06-24-46	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-06-24-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In strengthening the position of the government, I would like to emphasise this once again: we consider the content of the Istanbul Convention to be very important. Based on the Hungarian and European culture of respect for women and gender equality among our fundamental values, the Hungarian government strongly rejects any form of violence against women, is committed to the complete elimination of abuse and the protection of victims. In many respects, the government protects victims by means of the necessary means. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai:]] It is used to protect the operation of the institutional system and to organise prevention campaigns. Hungary is already part of a number of international conventions requiring women to be protected from abuse. [[István Szilárd Németh: Very good!]] The protection provided by the domestic legal system, which has been ratified by international law agreements, and implemented by government measures, is still not lacking, and the Hungarian domestic law still substantially complies with the provisions of the Convention as it stands. However, there are two points of the Istanbul Convention which, in addition to the important and always respected goals of the Hungarian Government, wish to include elements that we cannot accept in the Hungarian legal order. One of these is the chapter on migration and asylum in the Convention, which is in direct conflict with Hungary's migration policy. Hungarian legislation in force [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: For abused women, it doesn't matter where it comes from! They must be protected.]] provides for the possibility of [[István Szilárd Németh: Relax!]] that the Hungarian authorities should act according to specific rules in the case of persons requiring special treatment. The amendment to this Convention, which would result in automatic entry of the relevant group, is strictly contrary to the Government's migration policy. The Convention also uses the concept of gender, i.e. social sex, as part of internal law at the statutory level in the event of ratification. As long as these points of dispute are not clarified in a satisfactory manner in accordance with the values represented by the Government, the ratification of the Convention cannot take place. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: The genders are coming!]] It is unacceptable that they wish to include elements in the Hungarian legal order with stealth legislation hidden in an international agreement. [[Defiance, a lot of noise from the opposition benches. Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] which is foreign to and whose use is not necessary since women's protection against sexual violence [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: The institutional system should be built! We should talk about protecting Hungarian women! But they don't know, they don't do it! And the kids! The president's ringing the bell.]] Hungarian legislation provides the right instrument. Ladies and gentlemen, The government is doing everything in its power to protect women, children and families. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: No, you won't. Don't talk nonsense.]] This is much more than what the Istanbul Convention would provide for us as a legal obligation, not only to help victims, but also to prevent victimisation, to recognise crisis situations as soon as possible [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I did it in Szigetszentmiklós!]] and treatment as well [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That was very successful!]] is among the top-supported government objectives. I'm going to say it slowly so Congresswoman understands. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: I understand. That's why I'm telling you.]] [[14.40]] The government is taking strong legislative and political measures, providing significant resources to protect women from violence. I therefore find it regrettable that opposition representatives are nevertheless pushing for the ratification of an international convention that does not substantially improve the situation of those who want to be protected. Instead, I suggest you support the family action plan with your votes. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Agnes Vadai: I suggest you take care of women.]]
u2019-06-24-48	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I'll ask Congresswoman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-06-24-49	Unfortunately, I cannot accept the Secretary of State's reply, not even because he has answered four of my questions for a long time, but has not given a clear answer. [[István Szilárd Németh: More clear than that?]] If the survey is really taking place, how long will this survey take? In a few days, you managed to take away the housing savings fund benefits, so why do you need so much time? I would like to ask you if I really understood correctly that the Secretary of State said that no one today is lacking in protection from the victims. You may recall that last year I told you about that poor mother whose child was thrown out of the upstairs by her husband and then you killed yourself. This mother, she may remember, in addition to her child being thrown out by her husband, and her husband committed suicide, tried everything before, went to the safe house, asked for help in any way, and received nothing in the world. I don't think it's a complete defense. I'm very pleased about that intention. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] that they are trying to do everything, but I think that in order to be able to count on Hungary seriously, please do all the steps. I can't accept it.
u2019-06-24-50	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 109 votes in favour, 31 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, has submitted an interview to the Minister of Finance:, Is pensioners no longer important to the government? It's an address. By answering the interpellation, Prime Minister Antal Rogán, the Chief of Staff of the Prime Minister, has been tasked with and competent according to the subject. State Secretary Csaba Dömötör responds to the interpellation at the request of the Minister. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2019-06-24-51	In fact, I have already received the answer to my question by the fact that the Prime Minister has signed the matter of pensioners on the propaganda industry, which shows that the issue of pensioners and people with disabilities is only important from an election point of view, otherwise from a social or economic point of view. In your budget, the possibility for pensioners and people with disabilities to be on holiday under the Elizabeth Programme will cease to exist from 2020 [[Interjection from the pro-government ranks: Dr. Bence Rétvári: It won't stop!]] And from here on out, otherwise in the right way, the child and youth camping function will remain, but this function will be removed from the Erzsébet program. We could say that we are surprised at this, but we are not, because you have expressed in many ways what you think of our country's disabled and elderly, retired citizens. It is memorable that the disability pensions have been taken from many people with disabilities, from many of our sick fellow citizens, and they are not willing to restore their rights, and they are not willing to compensate them despite the fact that the Constitutional Court has stated that it is your duty. When the opposition proposes this, the proposals will be swept off. So far, at least during the election period, they seemed to have tried to do something for the goodwill of pensioners, so that a small Erzsébet voucher would always be used in order to obtain pensioners' votes, because a significant proportion of Hungarian pensioners are in such a vulnerable position that they are happy with a few tens of thousands of HUF extra payments. After all, I must say to you that it is now quite clear what your policy is: you do not count, outside of an election period, old people, pensioners, people with disabilities, even though it was the only way for many of you to get on a holiday of some kind, since the minimum pension has not been increased for ten years. Today, there are pensioners who spend their days out of a few thousand forints, and for them, obviously, if a social-based holiday is not guaranteed, there is no way in which they can get some kind of relaxation or rest. On this basis, I would like to ask the Minister when they will finally want to consider the people from whom there is no longer anything left to take away because of your policies. Why do they want to push pensioners and people with disabilities into the abyss even more? Why aren't pensioners important to the government? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2019-06-24-52	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Csaba Dömötör responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-06-24-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Last week, this question has already been raised, and if I recall correctly, you submitted an interpellation, but you weren't present when you could have said it, so I'm gonna run it again. [[Gergely Harvesto: You're recalling it wrong! Dr. Agnes Vadai: You remember wrong!]] The point is that, unlike rumors, the holiday program for large families, pensioners and people with disabilities does not cease. To say the opposite is equivalent to fake news production or to use the term more typical of you is a lie. That's the thing. The Erzsébet programme was launched by the Hungarian government in 2012 to provide these social groups with a discount holiday opportunity, and we do not wish to deviate from this goal. This is why, although the discussions with Brussels have led to several changes to the Erzsébet voucher system, the social holiday continues to be successful and undisturbed. In the past eight years, 1.5 million people have been offered holiday opportunities in the Erzsébet programme, including 260 thousand pensioners, 60 thousand disabled and about half a million large families. The government's social holiday program is currently under way, with nearly 60,000 vacations this year. And I would also like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that from 15 September 2019 it is possible to apply for the launch of the Erzsébet 2020 programme. Moreover, his concern for pensioners is surprising because this year their government decided on many measures that had been a major blow to the elderly: a one-month pension was taken from 2.4 million pensioners with a single pen stroke; during the Gyurcsány government, the value of benefits decreased by 8 percent, by 6.4 percent during the Bajnai government; all these were aggravated by an increasing deficit in the state pension fund, with a deficit of HUF 357 billion in 2010. You, honourable Member, served as State Secretary at this time, so I assume you are very aware of these measures. On the other hand, the current government maintained the value of pensions, which it also undertook: pensions increased by 33 percent by January 2019 compared to 2010 and the purchasing value of pensions continued to increase. What we want is for the elderly to benefit from economic success in the form of a pension premium, which could first be allocated in November 2017 and then in 2018. In summary, this means that, not only in words but also in actions, the elderly have been valued in Hungary since the 2010 change of government, and as long as the national government is in office, it will remain so. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-24-54	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-06-24-55	Thank you very much. Dear House, Many very little respectable Secretary of State! [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: How witty you are!]] The fact is that the Prime Minister was right to give you this answer, because indeed, we could only hear pure propaganda from the propagandaistery instead of a reply. You didn't tell the truth in your introduction, and then you reported the situation of pensioners on a very one-sided basis. You forgot that we started our government by giving the pensioners back the 19 thousand forints you took, not to mention that you took the Swiss indexation out of the law, and now you have reduced every Hungarian pensioner a year by 100,000 forints. And of course, you didn't answer what you were doing when you were exposed to your own bill of budget law, which includes the abolition of this kind of social holiday. [[Ferenc Koncz: You're lying!]] Everything else is just bullshit, so I could say using your favorite word is a lie, so I can't accept your answer. [[Let's hear it for the DK benches.]]
u2019-06-24-56	Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 109 votes in favour, 27 against and 1 abstention. [[14.50]] Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. Why are they letting Hungary be the loser of climate change? It's an address. I'll give the floor to Congressman. Here you go.
u2019-06-24-57	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Minister, At the end of October last year, the Parliament adopted the second national climate change strategy for the period 2018-2050 and also required the Government to draw up an action plan on climate change within six months of the adoption of the strategy. Since then, eight months have passed, but the content of the action plan is still unknown, although the financial coverage of the measures should be incorporated into the draft budget for 2020. There, however, there is no such title, but there is a line missing, from which perhaps a few crumbs will come for this purpose. So we're gonna miss another year? This would have been a concern only because, after the first submission of the National Climate Change Strategy in 2015, it was delayed for three years and its discussion by the National Assembly. However, without this senseless and irresponsible discussion, the first three-year action plan could have already been implemented and we could now talk about the adoption and implementation of the next three-year plan. Dear House, I think that this issue is particularly important, because in February this year, a government decision was taken to draw up, by coordinating Minister Palkovics, a draft national planning document at the highest level for the use of EU funds between 2021 and 2027, entitled "National Development 2030" by 31 May 2019. How's that coming along? And how does the objectives of the climate change strategy appear in it? Although the Annex to the Government Decision lists 37 thematic plans to be drawn up, climate change is not at all an autonomous, comprehensive theme. We can only assume with strong goodwill that the climate targets will be integrated into the individual sectoral elements, but here we will get back to the action plan, to say the lack of it, because without the necessary substantial coordination, authorisation and resources, the wallets will not be able to plan or work on implementation. However, climate change is now an integral part of our day, and it is enough to think only of the drought that we have experienced in recent years, and then of extraordinary precipitation. And now we're only at the beginning of summer. Hungary is estimated to be a global loser of climate change. Only the annual loss of GDP may exceed 1,5-2 per cent per year in the long term. What are you waiting for? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-24-58	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-06-24-59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You don't know how long LMP will be able to ask the same questions over and over again. [[Péter Ungár: Years!]] wondering if the government is aware of the process of climate change. It is clear that they do not want to understand or accept the government's emphasis on combating climate change from the answers given in this Chamber. Last week, the Prime Minister has just formulated the government's position within these walls, when he said, I quote, that it is important for the Government of Hungary to protect the environment and to fight climate change, because we all want clean water, cleaner air and a more bearable climate. This is why Hungary is fulfilling all its international obligations. I would like to stress once again from the thought that you are fulfilling all your international obligations. Apparently, they didn't pay attention to him either, because they keep asking me, like, week after week. Honourable Congressman, If you do not listen to our answers, at least believe in action, climate protection and adaptation measures, then it may also be easier to say the real thing. You have incomplete information, such as on the climate change action plan. The action plan has been completed despite the limited time limits available and the size of the task. It is currently in the process of government consultation, complying with the relevant legal obligation. Contrary to what you say, the first action plan sets out concrete measures, indicating costs, resources, deadlines and those responsible. I would also like to inform you that the national energy and climate plan and the national energy strategy have been developed and are being renewed in parallel with the development of the Action Plan. Consultation with the Commission, neighbouring Member States, civil society organisations and industry actors is ongoing to finalise the national energy and climate plan, taking into account the Commission's recommendations. The final version of the plan shall be completed by the end of 2019. We know that our country's exposure to climate change is much greater than our contribution to the whole climate change-inducing process, and we are therefore fully fulfilling our international commitments, which many countries with more major emissions cannot say about themselves. Since the change in the system, let me tell you that Hungary has reduced its greenhouse gas emissions by 32 percent. Our per capita emissions are only three quarters of the EU average. 60 percent of our electricity production is already free of greenhouse gas emissions, 50 percent of which are due to nuclear energy, 10 percent due to renewable energy use. Our emissions related to the production of unit national income have decreased by 24 percent since 2010. With regard to the economy as a whole, we consider it important that the new EU budget is sufficient to help the Member States that joined later to finance industrial emission reduction measures to achieve climate targets. Honourable Congressman, Hungary therefore has climate targets. We can achieve these by 2030, and we have plans and funding for this. In the longer term, we need a solution to meet climate targets, and we can protect cheap domestic rents. Thank you for your attention and, in view of this, I would like to ask for my answer to be accepted. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-24-60	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-06-24-61	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, We're gonna keep asking questions over and over again until you guys stop talking. 'Cause what we're seeing is that they're lining up a series of beautiful communication panels here for an answer, but they're seriously behind in the field of action. This is also perfectly confirmed by the fact that you in the European Union voted against the initiative of the Carbon Neutrality target until 2050. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches, among them: That's right! Shame!]] You only defend Hungary's ecological goals in speech, speech and sound, and I think that if there is no water in Hungary, then this will be very, very little. So I can't accept your answer. Thank you very much. [[Péter Ungár: Shame! Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2019-06-24-62	Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 111 votes in favour, 31 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:, How does next year's budget help families? It's an address. Congressman Cake Olivio has the floor.
u2019-06-24-63	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Fidesz claims that the 2020 budget is a budget for families, talking about 5 percent and 2200 billion, which stays with families. But if you look at the wages, the majority of the families are not improving their situation, but the government of Hungary would have the task of helping the majority of Hungarian families, not just a minority. Fidesz also says that Hungary is performing better. The only question is, why doesn't the state-owned police, nurses, teachers' salaries show this? One paramedic brings home a net monthly of 130 thousand forints; a three-year-old worker with a net of 226 thousand, plus up to 12-18 hours a day. The KSH doesn't give out the minimum living data, but the pay signs are still public, so we know that. [[15.00]] The situation is not much better than the teachers: the salary of a university professor who worked 20 years is HUF 304 500 gross, i.e. an experience, a three - child educator, which brings home just HUF 200,000. A beginner police patrol starts with a salary of 130 thousand forints, but the monthly salary of a junior firefighter with a seven-year professional record is only 160 thousand forints. This money, with tax reductions for three children, is unbelievably low. In this capital city, there is an average of 40 to 70 thousand forints of rent, at least that much is paid if someone pays a flat loan and costs twice as much as a rent. And that doesn't include the cost of food, the cost of clothing. I'm not talking about the 100,000 public workers, they're not entitled to a family tax or preferential loan, they're bringing home a net HUF 54,000. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Clearly, people and their families who perform the most important tasks simply cannot survive unless they work overtime to death, and they are not with their families until then. But it's no different in the private sector. There are over 400,000 people on minimum wage or guaranteed minimum wage, with three children they bring home a maximum of 129 thousand forints. How does the budget help two parents earning minimum wage? How can they take credit for this income? Dear Secretary of State, How will next year's budget help families? After all, tax cuts only affect employers now, and wage increases this year will leave a net HUF 7,000 for civil servants. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2019-06-24-64	Thank you very much, Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio. I salute my fellow Members. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2019-06-24-65	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We are richer with another eternal sentence: that the KSH does not give out the data needed to calculate the minimum of living, but you have calculated it. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Because we are so smart!]] So these sentences are a little similar to Dobrev Klára, that there are no pro-immigration proposals, but we voted for them. So this kind of logic, I see. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] He's trying to take over the entire opposition. Honourable Congressman, If you look at the evolution of the minimum wage in Hungary since the change of regime, you will not find much, and you will not even find a time when the minimum wage has risen as radically as during the Fidesz-KDNP period. Mr President, this was 73 thousand forints in 2010 [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We should have it since Matthias, because then the comparison would be even better!]] Which is now 149 thousand forints. There is no left-wing government that could only have provided half or a third of this growth rate. [[Laszlo Szászfalvi: Yes! Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] Maybe a quarter of it, if there was something ahead under the ballib governments. And the fact that the minimum wage for skilled workers has risen from HUF 89 500 to HUF 195 000, there is no left-wing government in Hungary that could say a similar increase in wages. Gross average earnings in Hungary increased by 63 percent and net average earnings increased by 66 percent, which completely contradicts your sentence that tax reductions would not be felt for employees here, because the development of net earnings is more noticeable because, through the reduction in personal income tax, the introduction of family taxation leaves much more than the family. The tax system is not so multi-key in Hungary as to who works the more, the more it pays as a tax, so if you earn twice as much income, then you pay four times as much tax, but you adjust to the number of dependants, and the more people support everyone, the lower the level of personal income tax. And if a mother had four children, then for the rest of her life, if you would support these tax laws, you wouldn't have to pay personal income tax for the rest of your life. So this is the trend over the past period, as opposed to when there were tax increases and wage cuts, wage cuts in health care. You know, you were on the list of people who reduced wages in health care, but also the police reduced wages, took a month's wages, took a month's wages from all teachers, took a month's wages from all administrative administrators, and this is the list that sent you to Parliament, honourable Member. Paramedics' wages averaged between 2016 and 18 in a multi-stage wage increase, with a special paramedic allowance, did not rise as you said, honourable Member, but increased by 67 percent. In the case of healthcare workers, the wages of nurses will rise by 72 percent in the coming years, as has already been said today, compared to last year's base. If we look at how the proportion of people exposed to deprivation in households has changed, here, thank God, we can see a very, very positive change, because from 21,6 percent to 10.2 percent, therefore, according to Eurostat statements, the proportion of those exposed to deprivation has decreased by less than half, honourable Member. Thanks to this 800 000 new jobs, people can make a living not on aid but on work, thanks to lower taxes [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] which are lower both for workers and lower for employers, and not for your allies, the government pursued a policy of relief, but a policy of job creation. I mean, tell me about a better anti-poverty policy. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] It's like job creation. There's no one else. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Tax reduction!]] And give me a government that [[The president's ringing the bell. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Tax reduction!]] has been able to create more than 800,000 jobs in Hungary! Yeah, double unemployment? You knew that. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-24-66	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask the congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2019-06-24-67	Thank you for the floor. Unfortunately, I have nothing to accept, because the Secretary of State did not answer the questions, but instead he presented me with the tax system, the Hungarian tax system, thank you very much. Secretary of State, HUF 145 092 was the average monthly income of a social worker last year, it was so low that it was indeed raised by 17 percent in 2017 and only 123,000 forints were taken home. No wonder this system is on the verge of inability, because it is the largest emigration. These are the families that should be helped.
u2019-06-24-68	Thank you, Congressman. The congressman didn't accept the answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 108 votes to 29, with one abstention. Dear Parliament, Happy István, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance:. Tax policy long ago and now! Why is the left-wing tax increase not working in practice? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Some pro-government Members are leaving the Chamber. Intercoms from the opposition. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Parliament, [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We're watching you. We can't wait. Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] I'd like some peace from those who are on their way out, thank you. [[Interventions and publicity in the opposition.]] What are the negative consequences? " with the title " [[Constant intervention from the opposition.]] The floor is Mr. István Happy.
u2019-06-24-69	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, As we have already been used to this year, the government submitted next spring's budget, regardless of whether there was even an election in May this year. I think predictability is a value that market players consider important, because with the adoption of the budget in July, there is almost half a year for everyone to prepare for next year's changes. Unfortunately, after nine years, the left didn't learn anything from past mistakes. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Left! Who?!]] They want to pursue the same tax policy that Medgyessy, Gyurcsány and Bajnai have already failed. [[Péter Ungár: Medgyessy?!]] Gyurcsány's new party, the Democratic Coalition, took pride in the introduction of property tax even in its election program in 2018. It is sad that they didn't understand that the Hungarian people didn't ask for their tax increase proposals, and they didn't ask for their 4-percent special taxes, because let's just remember that during Gyurcsány, both companies and people were hit by so-called special taxes. [[Gergely Harvestó: Those who earned hundreds of thousands of forints!]] Because someone in his profession was good and well-earned, he was punished with extra taxes. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] This is how many people over a 36 - percent key paid an additional 4 percent sja tax. The absolute peak of incompetence was the introduction on 1 January 2007 of a new tax, the expected tax on so-called enterprises, which the Constitutional Court annulled in February of the year and abolished with retroactive effect. This should have been paid to the companies even in the event of loss-making operations. No doubt, they would also raise corporate tax again, introduce multi-key taxation, which would make the middle class again impossible, as they did before 2010. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] [[15.10]] I believe that the left still believes in austerity and distribution and in tax increases that strangle the economy. The good news, ladies and gentlemen, is that the tax policy of the last few years is about families and the disciplined budget. Personally, I am very proud that Hungary is expected to have a budget deficit of only 1 percent next year, which was a long time ago. The performance of the Hungarian economy has improved a great deal in recent years, and this gives the government the opportunity to implement measures such as the economic action plan from the surplus income of the economy. In view of the above, I would like to ask the Secretary of State why the tax lifting practice of the left does not work, what negative consequences it has. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-24-70	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai. [[Noise and interruptions. The president's gonna ring the bell.]]
u2019-06-24-71	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, we must remember the time of the Gyurcsány government. If I may, in addition to tax policy, I would like to give you some examples of how the Gyurcsány government has dealt with the possibility of governance. We need to revive the fact that he took a month's pension from people. I have a problem with what the Fidesz government has done: the Fidesz government has said [[Szabolcs Szabó: Returns the 13th month!]] To keep the real value of pensions and to keep it every year during its governance. The Gyurcsány government took a month's income from the people [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: That's not true!]] under the Fidesz government, income has been increasing steadily for 75 months. [[Szabolcs Szabó: And he gave it back!]] and for more than three years now, real wages and real income have also increased. [[Gergely Harvesto: You gave it back! .- Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Come and see how much a kilo of potatoes costs! 360 forints a kilo of potatoes!]] The Gyurcsány government has taken away the family tax allowance; the Fidesz government has significantly increased the family tax allowance for the two and three children, with HUF 33 thousand per month for the three children. The Gyurcsány government has taken away the housing benefits, including all tax discounts; the Fidesz government favours the home creation programme and the VAT reduction [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Lőrinc Ripper!]] For the house builders. The Gyurcsány government has invested more than one million Hungarian families in foreign currency loans [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That's not true!]] With which he has brought hundreds of thousands of people into housing and livelihood crises. The Fidesz government has stopped this, and these people are out of this mess. [[Gergely Harvesto: Are you that afraid of Feri?]] During the Gyurcsány government, housing costs and energy costs increased [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That's not true!]] Gas energy, electricity; during the Fidesz-government, a reduction in electricity was introduced. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That's not true! Well, that's certainly not true.]] There was simply no family support system during the Gyurcsány government [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Yes, you can.]] ; the Fidesz government also supports families by over 2000 billion in the 2020 budget. As regards the tax policy of the Gyurcsány government, on this point, honourable Member, let me give you an example: from 1 January 2006 for political gain, because in 2006 there were elections, it reduced the VAT of 25 per cent to 20 per cent. [[Laszlo Szászfalvi: Yes! Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Then he took it up to 27.]] Then Ferenc Gyurcsány himself, in a year's time, says the following: he was in a wave when a fit of honesty came to him. [[László Szászfalvi: Honesty attack!]] After that, it is difficult to argue that the reduction in the general turnover tax at the beginning of 2006 was an economic policy error. It was a mistake because, in fact, prices did not fall, they remained the same, people paid the same price for products and services, and he admitted it himself. Although VAT was only lifted on 1 June 2009 and thus achieved the same product because of the government [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: This was not the Gyurcsány government!]] People got it much more expensive. The tax reduction did not become a reduction, but essentially a significant price increase. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: VAT is now 27 percent, Mr. Secretary of State.]] That's not how the Fidesz government handles tax policy. The current tax policy principle is that taxes must be reduced, but public burdens must be paid to everyone in the state register. This is why the Fidesz government has achieved that, with reduced tax burdens and public burdens, tax revenues are still increasing. [[Gergely Arató: The poor pay taxes, Mr. Secretary of State.]] and thus the budgetary situation has stabilised and more from the state budget to all public expenditure. I think that the situation of the Hungarian economy is strong, so that employment has increased significantly, economic growth has also started, and hopefully this will continue. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-24-72	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask the congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2019-06-24-73	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, You can see that during my interpellation and your response, the Gyurcsány Party, the Liberálbolsheviks were very hurt that we confronted them about what they had done. [[There's a grumble in DK's ranks. Dr. Agnes Vadai: You're a thousand years older than I am! You're a bigger communist than I am!]] All the Bolshevik parties have done exactly as the Gyurcsány government has done throughout history. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: What Bolsheviks are you talking about, you?]] He constantly attacked the Hungarian people, not only physically, as in 2006, but also always introduced tax laws that affected the working people. I think it is very important for people to see that not only would they raise taxes if they came back, but all of our family policy measures to help Hungarian people have children would be withdrawn and destroyed. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] I think we shouldn't allow the Bolsheviks to come back to power. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: What Bolsheviks?]] Thank you, I accept your answer. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: It was worth coming in for!]]
u2019-06-24-74	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, János Bencsik, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources [[It's constant noise. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] When will the Government take substantial steps to resolve the housing crisis in Budapest? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Parliamentary Secretary András Tállai will respond to the interpellation on behalf of Minister for Finance Mihály Varga, who is responsible and competent according to the subject. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-24-75	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It is hard for you to find the words after the previous level of speech, but I will try, because there is a great deal of trouble in Budapest. In recent years there has been an amazing increase in the real estate market: Between 2017 and 2018 the housing prices in the capital increased by 27 percent, and at the end of the week we also received fresh data, according to which between 2018 and 2019 there was another 18 percent increase, and although we do not yet know the 2019 figures, the growing trends mean that this year is expected to increase by at least two figures. Some districts have brutally increased housing prices by more than 30 percent, such as Csepel. So it's not just the better-looking fellow citizens who have to reach into their pockets if they want to get their own apartment in the capital, but everyone does. The answer to that, of course, is that anyone who doesn't have the money to buy their own apartment should move to their apartment. It is only the case, ladies and gentlemen, that the rents in the capital have also been released: it is almost impossible to obtain an average apartment during 200 thousand forints a month, but the price of a one-bedroom studio also starts at 125 thousand forints, without rent, I would add, and to add that the salary of a pre-school teacher starting at 160 thousand forints net. The situation is aggravated by the fact that, despite more than ten years, since the flashing of the foreign currency credit crisis, many of the foreign currency loan-damaged people have been moaning about the banks' extra-profits on a monthly basis, and they have as much chance of getting their own apartments or their own apartments as they start an open public procurement with Lőrinc Mészáros. And for those who cannot afford their own apartments or apartments, there remains the system of municipal social housing, which can be applied for, but in most districts there is not enough rent, and what there is is is not the right quality. And here the circle closes: if you have neither your own apartment nor your own apartment, then you have no other option. Dear fellow Members, There is only one group that, despite the amazing increase in recent years, buys apartments in Budapest on an increasing scale, and I think you will find out who they are: foreigners. In 2017 they grew by more than 10 percent in the outer districts of Budapest, 10 percent of the districts already bought the apartments, and in the downtown the increase was even more drastic: in the V. district in 2017, every third property was placed in the hands of foreigners. In addition, most of the properties purchased are purchased for investment purposes, resulting in the growth of legal and illegal hostels, short-term apartments, and this, I don't have to say, raises prices even more, not to mention the resulting congestion, noise and all the associated inconveniences of night life. [[15.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, We must say that there is a housing crisis in Budapest, which will not resolve itself without public intervention. I ask the Honourable Secretary of State when the Hungarian Government will finally take meaningful steps to resolve the housing crisis. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-24-76	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2019-06-24-77	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I also read your interpellation, although you didn't literally say that, but I would quote that many cities in Europe are struggling with housing problems. We thank you very much for this sentence, so you admitted that if there is a problem with rent prices in Budapest, in Hungary, it was not triggered by the government, because the influence of the government does not extend to Berlin and other metropolitan cities. In his interpellation, he referred to the Berlin problem solution as a good example, but he did not say it orally; I think he did the right thing. Because what they're planning in Berlin to freeze rents, I don't think they can be tracked in Budapest. But let's look at what the government has done indirectly to solve the housing problem. Before that, I must say that, of course, the scope of the state is very limited in terms of the rental market. Typically, private individuals do business with private individuals, and the government's ability to intervene is very limited. Of course, we are doing everything we can to ensure that these incomes are taxed. If we go through what the government has done to create homes for different groups and layers, I think we can say that the government has nothing to be ashamed of, for example, those who want to have their own apartments, homes and children; they have the CSOK, the new home creation programme. A figure on how effective and good this is: until the end of May 2019 106 thousand CSOK applications were accepted for 312 billion, so there is considerable interest. The other layer should be the socially dependent ones who are in difficulty because of the foreign exchange loan. We know that this problem has been solved with the operation of the National Asset Manager, with 36,000 public apartments and 160,000 people participating in the program. With the amendment of the law, it is now possible to buy these apartments back. If we continue to look at the situation of students, the possibility of housing for college students and university students, I think there have also been significant progress here: a college building programme, a significant scholarship grant, student loans or student home support in higher education, and support for the operation of colleges is also included in the 2020 budget. The fourth layer I would like to talk about concerns labour mobility, because people who do not have a job in their place of residence are forced to travel, or they may need to work out their housing where their work is. Significant progress has also been made here, as the government is helping employers who help their employees solve their housing problems near or near their workplace. Thus, rent subsidies are granted, but there is also a significant workstation construction program. I think in this situation, what the government can do is give people access to decent housing. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-24-78	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman Bencsik to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2019-06-24-79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Secretary of State, the CSOK is a great institution, we supported it, but what I was talking about, the situation of those people is not helped by the CSOK, quite simply because this kind of price increase is well above not only the ten million-dollar grant, but also the credit line that can be taken up. So buying an apartment in Budapest today with a CSOK recording is much more expensive than it was two years ago without a CSOK, and then we didn't even talk about how many people couldn't take it, they couldn't even use the CSOK. For example, the CSOK does not help the Pesterzsébet woman who raises her three grandchildren after her dead daughter, one of whom is permanently ill, and who live in 25 square meters of yes, well-heard, Mr. Secretary of State, 25 square meters of wet, moldy municipal housing. He can't have three children, Mr. Secretary, he can't pick up the CSOK; neither can the parent who raises his mentally handicapped child, which takes up the entire 24 hours. The CSOK won't help them, so I can't accept your answer. I urge you to take substantial steps to resolve this problem. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-24-80	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman Bencsik did not accept the State Secretary's reply, so I ask the Parliament and accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 103 votes in favour, 29 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Hajnalka Juhász, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:, What changes will the year 2020 bring in the lives of families? It's an address. Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász has the floor.
u2019-06-24-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Before 2010, family politics in Hungary was not much to talk about. By 2010, family-creation and child-bearing spirit had reached a low point, which projected a significantly shrinking Hungarian population without intervention. The Fidesz-KDNP government, which was established in 2010, highlighted families. It cannot be emphasized enough that Hungary's new Fundamental Law on the family as a value-bearing and value-creating basic unit stated that Hungary protects the institution of marriage as a voluntary community between men and women, as well as the family as a basis for the survival of the nation. The new family support system was established in line with these principles, with the introduction and subsequent extension of family tax incentives. The government has continuously expanded and extended the family support system according to Hungary's performance. In this context, the first four elements of the seven-point family protection action plan announced at the beginning of the year will enter into force as of 1 July, such as baby shower support, a preferential loan related to the family home creation discount, the waiver of part of the mortgage loans and the promotion of car shopping for large family members. The government plans more than HUF 2000 billion in the draft budget for 2020 and exactly HUF 2227 billion 550 million in support of families with children, which is more than twice as large by 2010. The government helps families in a broader sense, helping to reconcile work and family. That's what the weed extra is for. In addition, the measures taken by the job protection action for parents with small children, the possibility of part-time employment for workers and a significant increase in nursery and kindergarten facilities support families as well. Dear Secretary of State, We need to continue the hard work, to survive Hungary, to protect families, further measures are needed. That is why I ask, Madam Secretary, what changes do the year 2020 bring in the lives of families? I'm waiting for an honorary answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-24-82	Thank you, Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász. I give the floor to State Secretary Katalin Novák.
u2019-06-24-83	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Hungary, as Europe as a whole, is at a crossroads. In many countries in Europe, a decision has already been taken to respond to demographic challenges in such a way that they see the solution of demographic problems in migration, in support of mass immigration, not in helping children's birth. We have just arrived at this crossroads in Hungary, and we can decide on our future. We can still decide to resist this type of pressure, not to support migration, but to support the birth of Hungarian children. [[15.30]] After all, Hungarian youths are family-centric, want children, on average two or three, rather than one, or to grow up childless. They want to live in marriage, which is why it is our job to give these young Hungarians every possible help from the government side, so that they can have as many children as they want, and when they want to; if they can afford it even in their 20s, just after completing university or even after a few years of work. This is what next year's budget is all about, and this is what the Hungarian government has done for families since 2010. The budget for 2020 will be the budget for families, as it was for the year 2019. We are about to adopt the 2020 budget, which is why it is important that we continue to increase support for families. In total, next year's draft budget includes HUF 2228 billion in support of families. This is more than ever, it has never been so large in the Hungarian budget. If we look at this year, even compared to this year, this represents an 11 percent increase, so we can say that we will continue to increase our commitment. What is budget-sided is income from the families' side, it increases the room for family mobility, the family's wallet, and parents can turn it on their children. In particular, next year's budget will increase by more than HUF 220 billion in connection with the Family Protection Action Plan. I would just like to highlight a few points for the sake of interest. One of them is the tax relief system. The principle that we take account in particular of those who have children in the redistribution process is responsible for raising children. For this reason, in 2020 there will be a higher amount of HUF 419 billion for family-friendly tax and contribution benefits than ever before. This includes the fact that from 1 January, every mother who has at least four children will be free of personal income tax for all of her life. The work is valued, the work is finally restored to the value it deserves. The other point I would like to highlight is that of nursery development. Child care, i.e. children under the age of three, is included in the budget next year for HUF 52 billion. This is nearly five times the amount that was in 2010 for the same purpose, 11 billion forints at that time. The seats are expanding, but the funding is increasing, and it will make it cheaper to run crèches, and they will not have to pay parents as much if they give their children to a family nursery, and the salaries of daycare workers will improve in the future, as they have already improved. Home access will continue to be supported, with HUF 300 billion in the budget for next year. Finally, I would like to mention the free textbook supply. Next year, the textbooks will be completely free of charge for the 10-12th graders and for the vocational education and training classes in the 13-16th grade. There are also free children's meals and the Elizabeth camps. I hope that next year's budget can help those who are about to have children and those who are raising children more than ever before. I urge you to support the adoption of the budget for next year's families. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-24-84	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Katalin Novak. I ask Mrs. Hajnalka Juhász to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2019-06-24-85	It is good that further progress can be expected while preserving the progress achieved so far. This will create a strong family policy that Hungarian families can expect in the long term. Thank you, Madam Secretary, for your reply, I accept. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-24-86	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We will move on to the next item, immediate questions. Péter Jakab, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How long does the Government take advantage of people's patience? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga to respond to the urgent public task. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding.
u2019-06-24-87	I don't accept it. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-24-88	He won't take it. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Climate change: Soros's work? It's an address. The Prime Minister cannot answer in person for an urgent public task, he has appointed Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] He'll take it. You have the floor, Congressman Lajos Kepli.
u2019-06-24-89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, More and more depressing and worrying news is coming out and more frequently in the media about the changes that are taking place in our climate and the consequences of this happening at some point on Earth. Before we think that this is only a threat to distant continents, we can see that these natural disasters are getting closer and closer to us. There is already a flood-like rain in Hungary that has not been seen or experienced before. There is a huge drought, and it is the extent and frequency of these that we are increasingly concerned about. Indeed, we do not have to think in 2050, but in the fact that within a few years, perhaps ten years, the processes for which we can do so now will be irreversible. It is quite worrying when, in view of this, the Hungarian average man hears statements from the government that the objectives of the German automotive industry are more important than climate targets for the economy; or when we see that we are vetoing the 2050 climate neutrality targets at EU level, on the grounds that this would increase the cost of electricity for the population, while in the next sentence of the reference it is already there that, by 2030, Hungarian energy or electricity production will be 90% carbon neutral. Then where is the conflict, or what contradiction is there that should be resolved? Practically, if we see the consequences of climate change that the government is ignoring at the moment and facing in its entirety at the moment, then we have reason to be very concerned. I ask Minister how you will look your child, your grandson, your successor in the eye, that you are the generation and you are the government that could still be able to prevent this climate change from happening or not if you do not take the appropriate measures. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2019-06-24-90	I therefore give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga.
u2019-06-24-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We all share the concerns and concerns raised by the Member. We are all concerned about the environment and the world we will inherit for our children and grandchildren. First of all, I would like to state that Hungary is pursuing a future-oriented, climate-friendly and climate-friendly climate policy for the benefit of Hungarian voters. We are committed to achieving realistic and wisely defined climate targets. We have clear climate policy commitments to reduce emissions, increase the share of renewable energy and increase energy efficiency in 2020 as well. In order to meet our targets for this period, no one can say that we are not doing well, that we have reduced greenhouse gas emissions by more than 30 percent compared to the common EU reference year, i.e. 1990. The share of renewable energy is also above 13%. We are also approaching next year's commitment in energy efficiency. I can safely say that Hungary is one of the Member States of the European Union that is doing the most in order to meet these agreed climate policy targets by 2020. There are a number of countries that can't say that about themselves. I would also like to assure the Member that we will also have clear commitments by 2030, which we will also deliver on. Among other things, we are working on a nuclear and solar energy mix capable of reducing emissions by 40% and increasing the renewable share, in which 3 thousand megawatts of solar power will be generated. So thank you for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-24-92	Thank you, Minister. Congressman Kepli has a one-minute rejoinder. [[15.40]]
u2019-06-24-93	Mr. Vice Prime Minister, Mr. Secretary. These are undoubtedly very well-developed communication panels, only to realize that the world has gone beyond the communication panels and put party politics aside. This is my last speech here, in the Hungarian Parliament, and as such, I would like to put party politics aside in its entirety, in the last few seconds, and I would like to ask you that this is the only case, the issue of climate change, until it is too late, and until it is actually possible to act, where we should not puff communication panels and party slogans, but really together, together, the Parliament and the whole nation should make sure that we prevent the problem that is coming, or make the extent of it as small as possible. After all, we Hungarians are small in ourselves to change processes at the global level, but we are enough to set an example, we are enough to do it and do it at European level. I would like to leave this here in the Hungarian Parliament, with my last words, to do so, and to do so without party politics here in the future, among the walls of the Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-24-94	Thank you, Congressman. The Deputy Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2019-06-24-95	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, This is not a matter of communication terms or things, as may be the case with other parties, but of concrete commitments which are constantly measured by the European Union year after year. This is why today Hungary has reduced greenhouse gas emissions by 32 percent since the change in the system, which is why our per capita emissions are only three quarters of the EU average, which is why 60 per cent of our electricity production is already free of greenhouse gas emissions, 50 per cent of which is due to nuclear energy and 10 per cent to the use of renewable energy. I must therefore say to you, Member, that our concern is common, that the government is doing and that it is acting to change this situation. And for you, allow me personally to wish you further success in your personal life. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-24-96	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Attila Mesterházy, a representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: " with the title " You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-24-97	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Let me first wish my fellow Member Kepli good luck and thank him here in Parliament for his work and wish him good luck in winning that settlement in our county as mayor. So I trust you will succeed and continue your political, public activities. Dear Minister, The reason I'm interested in this question is because we get a lot of letters from dentists, their interest organisations. They say that the scissors are opening up between the financing of dentistry and the general practice, and there are about 300 dental practitioners and dental practitioners. This means that nearly one million people do not have district dentists, which, according to their calculations, would amount to some 30 billion in the Hungarian budget. If you provided them with 900 thousand forints for dental practitioners, let's say double it, then you would roughly cover the costs that are very necessary, and then perhaps we could also reach the financing of the general medical practice, which also leaves something to be desired. So in Hungarian, I would ask Minister that the majority will support the MSZP amendment that would provide this source for general doctors, or, if not this amendment, he saw the opportunity, Minister, to increase the funding of dentists working in public care, and at least to achieve the minimum level required for this one million Hungarian citizens, the Hungarian families in Hungary to have a publicly funded dental care throughout the country, regardless of geographical or other difficulties. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity.
u2019-06-24-98	Thank you, Congressman Mesterházy. I'll give the floor to the Minister for rejoinder.
u2019-06-24-99	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Let me start by saying that your question is wrong, because there is a cover for dental care, and there is an increasing coverage every year in every budget. Overall, dentists receive HUF 13.5 billion more support compared to 2010. As part of this, we have been able to contribute to a significant degree of development in recent years: expansion of equipment parks, renovations, improvements have been supported, and the basic fee for dental services and clinics has also been increased, while dental services providing basic care in the municipality have also received additional remuneration. In 2016, the basic fee for dental services and specialties was increased by HUF 2 billion, which meant an increase of 7.7 percent. This additional resource, by the way, is just to reassure you, as all concerned citizens have been built into fixed fees, which the dentist's profession has been pushing for for years. So we accepted what the representatives of the dentist's profession said. In 2017, dentists also made available a so-called establishment proposal to support care in the long-term unsatisfactioned zones. So, in a place where there may be no dentist temporarily, the government has a special program to support the dentist, to avoid dentists. In December 2017, the 2800 dental care providers received an additional remuneration of HUF 3 million each, representing HUF 7.6 billion in total for the dentist's profession. As of March 1, 2018, basic dental practitioners became eligible for a monthly fee of HUF 130 thousand per service. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-24-100	Thank you, Minister. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2019-06-24-101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would quote from the letter addressed to Mihály Varga on 18 June 2019: at the end of November 2017 it was announced in a press conference that dentists would receive an additional HUF 250 000 per month supplement for that year, and, in the framework of further funding development, the financing of public-funded dentists would be increased to the appropriate level in two or three years, as in the other sectors of basic care. These statements were made to the general public, and we basic dentists were right to expect the government to keep its word, and the financing of basic dentists will result in significant changes and improvements. It's been two years since then, nothing's happened. This is not said by me, Minister, but by the letter sent to you by doctors working in dentistry who see that their work is completely indestructible and that there is a need to raise funds, but if I understand your answer correctly, you have answered my question in the negative way. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-24-102	Thank you, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Minister for Finance Mihály Varga.
u2019-06-24-103	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressman, you didn't understand my answer. So I'm not gonna repeat my two-minute answer in one minute. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the 2020 budget submitted to Parliament again contains a significant additional amount of support not only for health in general but also for dental care. The 2020 budget bill includes an additional HUF 10 billion in the budget of the Health Insurance Fund for the development of basic care, including dental care. So I would ask the Member to perhaps convince his fellow political groups to support the bill tabled in 2020, and then he will also receive a positive, reassuring answer to the question you have falsely asked. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-24-104	Thank you, Minister of Finance. Dear Parliament, Mr. Zsolt Gréczy, representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: And how much did it cost ten years ago? " with the title " You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-24-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The Orbán government and the Fidesz representatives are constantly banging their breasts about how well the Hungarians live. This self-gratification also extends to how well older people are doing in the 9th year of the Orbán regime. There have been Members, Members of Fidesz, who have yelled out in a debate like this, that they have already returned the 13th month pension, but did not add to it that it was a sum and to Lőrinc Mészáros. But then let's look at a credible figure on how Hungarians live today and how old people live in Hungary today. Let's just say it's the pepper fries. I received a bill from a Hungarian citizen for the 2010 grocery store. On 4 November 2010, he paid HUF 176 for a kilo of onions, and on 14 December 2010 he paid HUF 140 for a kilo of potatoes. If we had made the peppered potatoes out of only a kilo of potatoes and a pound of onions, excluding fat, spices, salt, pepper, pepper, cumin, and the ingredients we may have mentioned, if we were to throw a little sausage or sausage or something like that, then this cost 228 forints in 2010. [[15.50]] On June 13, 2019, according to the prices on the Internet, a kilo of potatoes costs 500 HUF and one kilo of onions costs 600 HUF. So, as above, it costs a pensioner 650 HUF for a serving of pepper fries. This means that if I add that the pension has increased by about 30 percent since 2010, this means a 285 percent increase in the price of a daily food. And then that old man hasn't eaten any fruit, no vegetables, so everything he needs, anyway. So now we are talking about how the Hungarians live in the ninth year of the Orbán regime. [[Ferenc Koncz: You're lying! Two hundred forty!]] I am asking Minister what you intend to do to curb prices.
u2019-06-24-106	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister for Finance Mihály Varga.
u2019-06-24-107	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Mass of slides, unfortunately, I can say on your point. First of all, no one in the government says we're living well. We say that we live better than in 2010 when we started governing; we do not take away the 13th month pension, we do not take away the 13th month salary from public service workers, and we do not have 12 percent unemployment than when you handed over the government pole in 2010. The second slide is that I do not know where you go to buy, honourable Member, probably to Vienna or perhaps even to the west, because the prices you have said do not correspond to the Hungarian prices at all. I asked my agricultural colleague here how much a kilo of new Hungarian potatoes costs: HUF 260-270 and you are talking about HUF 500. So either you've been tricked somewhere, and I'm sorry, or you've been led into the market. [[Ferenc Koncz shows up his phone.]] That's where the congressman shows that he's shopping on his phone at a place where everything is more expensive. [[György Balla: They lie night and day and night!]] I just want to keep going, Mr. President. So I think that [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Congressman, you're completely mistaken. [[Miklós Soltész: Drink less vodka!]] In recent years, where we could, we have significantly reduced VAT on eggs, milk, chicken meat, pork, you remember that. Unfortunately, you did not vote in favour of these, so you are not helping people to cook peppers at a cheaper rate, but I think that you will now have the opportunity to make such amendments in the debate on the 2020 budget. What I would also like to point out in particular is that, in contrast to the change in the price of previous government cycles, since 2010, there have been products included in the composition of a pepper potato and whose price has only increased to a lesser extent. If you, for example, put some offal into this pepper potato, as you mentioned the sausage here or put some poultrymeat in it, I can say that, for example, the price of poultrymeat is less than in 2010, 2.2 percent according to the data of the HCSO. So, honourable Member, I would ask you to review your data, review your correspondence, and believe only those who actually give examples from real life. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-24-108	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. I give the floor back to Congressman Zsolt Gréczy.
u2019-06-24-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm really glad they're showing prices on the phone here, and some people are yelling at me that it's just 284. I compared 170 to your 284, which is much more than that in other stores. [[Intruder from the ranks of Fidesz: But you said five hundred!]] The other is that if we produce economic data, I would like to say that it has the weakest forints of all time, it has the largest nominal government debt of all time, it is the most expensive petrol of all time, and we live in the worst forints of all time. And you were the minister who said that anyone who couldn't afford to go abroad should stay home. That is about what Hungarian citizens are worth, Minister, in your eyes! We already know a minister, and he's failed since then, and he's said that if you don't have money, you're worth it. Now we have another minister, unfortunately, who says that anyone who doesn't have the money to travel abroad would rather stay home. [[Peter Cseresnyés: That's not what he said! Miklós Soltész: You can leave the country, who said that?]] Anyway, it's nice to stay home because we like to spend our holidays in Hungary, but this saying was still tasteless. Thank you very much. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. Miklós Soltész: Not even DK applauds!]]
u2019-06-24-110	Thank you. The Minister of Finance shall have a rejoinder. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2019-06-24-111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, It is not necessarily necessary to lie in Parliament, so I do not think that this is part of what is necessary in the work of Members. What you have said, no one has said, and you know that this is not the way it was said; you know that a question has been asked about the need to convert someone's forint into currency, and I said that yes, you can go abroad, it is an exciting thing, but in Hungary there are many nice places. Well, if you don't agree that Hungary is a nice place, and there are many nice places in Hungary with a summer holiday, then I think there is a debate here, but we may discuss this after the meeting. I would like to reassure you that the ingredients for the peppers potatoes can be bought and cooked. I hope, Mr President, that after your question and my answer, you will also take the time to look at a price list of the price changes that have been made over the past period. I am pleased that the Hungarian economy is now experiencing a time when we are the first to grow, when there is the least unemployed in the country since the regime change, and when inflation is so moderate that it does not otherwise ruin people's savings. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-24-112	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the President of the National Bank of Hungary an immediate question: Mr President has appointed Mr István Nagy as Vice-President to respond to an urgent public task. I'm asking Congressman. [[Sic! Rumble in the lines of Jobbik and LMP.]] To accept the person of the responding person, or to ask the President himself for an answer.
u2019-06-24-113	Mr President, I am very sorry that Mr Vice-President is tired again, but I will not accept his person for an answer, and I will wait for President Matolcsy to answer in person.
u2019-06-24-114	Thank you. President Matolcsy will have to answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, wants to ask an immediate question to the Minister without a wallet for the design, construction and installation of two new blocks of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant:. It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Pál Kovács, State Secretary, to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister himself for an answer.
u2019-06-24-115	I accept, Mr. President.
u2019-06-24-116	You have the floor, László László Keresztes.
u2019-06-24-117	Thank you. Mr President, Dear Parliament, We have already said here many times in the Hungarian Parliament that, in our view, all the arguments that the Hungarian government has made in favour of the Paks enlargement have been resolved. In particular, I would like to refer to a question or argument that the government says that nuclear energy is extremely safe and predictable. At the same time, we believe that the use of nuclear power presents serious risks, and we believe that our statement and position is supported by the many malfunctions, problems and failures that we have seen and seen in recent decades. The event on 11 April 2013 was the most serious such malfunction, which was considered to be the most serious nuclear power plant case after the Chernobyl disaster, and at that time the Paks Nuclear Power Plant suffered a serious malfunction according to an international classification, in which 30 fuel chambers were damaged. Fortunately, such a serious malfunction has not occurred since then, but unfortunately, even after the extension of operational time, failures and unforeseen events are still regular. Let's mention some of them. A few days ago, on 15 June, an unforeseen significant reduction in performance was observed in the second block of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. That's what we read in the press. Then, a few days before that, a so-called operational event took place, during which a maintenance had to be carried out on the third block, during which the entire block had to be shut down, and after that the nuclear power plant was only able to operate at 50 percent power. It gives my question topicality in a shocking case last Friday, when I gave these examples, and Congressman Lajos Kósa found it literally: I am so bold to say that Paks II. Its construction is, among other things, due to the fact that the Paks Nuclear Power Plant has long been operating above its originally planned age. That's what a government representative said. From this reply, it is clear that here the Member makes some kind of connection between the failure and the extension of the operating time, as if the current situation were not equivalent, and the problem is that these increased operating time blocks must operate for a period of 2032-36. My question is how many such operational events and failures have occurred since 2013, how serious they have been. On what basis does the government base its use of nuclear energy on predictable and safe? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Do you agree with the expression of Minister Kósa, or Secretary of State, that it is acceptable to argue that the operational time originally planned has expired? [[The president's ringing again.]] [[16.00]] And indeed, there is any kind of apology, and I would like to ask you the last question quickly in terms of safety requirements and predictable operation, as regards the procedure laid down...
u2019-06-24-118	Congressman!
u2019-06-24-119	... between the extended operating time blocks and the original state. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-24-120	I would like to ask Mr Pál Kovács, State Secretary, to answer the extended question.
u2019-06-24-121	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr President, I have a brief answer to the Member's question: that nuclear power plants, nuclear power, are safe. [[In the notary seat Dr. Lajos Szűcs will be replaced by József Attila Móring.]] The obvious evidence of this is the last 37 years of safe operation, when my colleagues and former colleagues have made every effort to ensure domestic energy supply and power supply, on weekends, during the week, on holidays and at any time. All this has been done by representing more than 50 percent of domestic electricity supply and electricity supply. Believe professionals that Europe will become green and green if nuclear power plants operate, thus prolonging the lifetime of existing nuclear power plants or if additional new nuclear power plants are built. After all, until the end of the century no new solution is expected to be trusted in the arrival of the fusion by 2050, but there is no massive solution that will be able to secure energy supply and guarantee security of supply. The International Energy Agency also pointed out in its professional publication here in May that if new nuclear power plants are not built or their extension of operational time, global security of supply and climate protection objectives could be compromised. And if you're talking about safety, I'd like to inform you that the new Paks blocks that [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] then replace the existing blocks, represent the safest third, the three plus-generation technology, and thus the project also meets the strictest international requirements.
u2019-06-24-122	Thank you very much.
u2019-06-24-123	It will have more than fourfold redundancy, and this will be [[The president's ringing the bell.]] 183 reactors in Europe and 4 reactors in Paks are confirmed.
u2019-06-24-124	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-06-24-125	I can't do this without Atomic Energy. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-06-24-126	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. They're asking me to keep up with the house rules. A one-minute rejoinder to Mr. Crusade Leader.
u2019-06-24-127	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the flexibility that we have had a little bit of speaking time on this important issue. I spoke quickly, trying to put a lot of important questions into these two minutes. Unfortunately, I didn't get any answers from the Secretary of State in return for another bonus question. With regard to the predictability of nuclear energy use, I would like to ask you: how do you see, Mr Secretary of State, how could the government take the responsible decision to expand in Paks when nuclear waste, the disposal of high-activity nuclear waste, has not been resolved anywhere in the world? In particular, neither the technology exists for this, nor the financing has been resolved in Hungary, nor the location issue has been resolved. I repeat that, given the fact that sooner or later these power plants will have to be shut down, and sooner or later the high-activity nuclear waste will have to be permanently placed, and there is no solution anywhere in the world for this, so how could the government in Hungary undertake to expand Paks capacity in this way? Thank you.
u2019-06-24-128	Thank you, Congressman. The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder in one minute.
u2019-06-24-129	Thank you very much. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, Before Hungary entered the European Union with the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, it was subject to a very serious review. Such investigations will be carried out by both the International Atomic Energy Agency, as an international organisation of nuclear power plant operators, in the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. Almost 20 such tests have already been carried out in all aspects of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. The fact that WANO is the World Federation of Nuclear Power Plant Operators and the IAEA's so-called peer review is an example of sharing these experience of operation and maintenance and administrative practice, revealing any errors and sharing good practices. The Paks Nuclear Power Plant already met the conditions required by the European Union for Hungary and for all the blocks in connection with the so-called stress test. That's all I can tell you, the Paks Nuclear Power Plant and nuclear power are safe, and in the long run, the only guarantee it's gonna make. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] to ensure security of supply and cheap electricity for Hungarian families and consumers. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-06-24-130	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: heat wave, flood, inland water, desertation, drought, storms, lightning flood, smog and greenhouse gases. What does the government do about it? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr Sándor Farkas Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I give the floor to Congressman Coach-Cake Olivio.
u2019-06-24-131	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Last week, the government vetoed the proposal that would have made the European Union climate neutral by 2050, reducing air pollution and climate change. So, while ten thousand people die every year in Hungary from a disease that is directly related to contaminated air, while people protest on the street, scientists warn that we have less and less time, while the heat waves have increased, the heat has increased, the number of days during the summer period has increased by eight days when the temperature is above 25 degrees Celsius, including five days more heat alarm days, while this proposal has been voted off. It is disappointing that this proposal was vetoed the very week when the extreme weather caused roads in the country, many people's houses, gardens and cellars to be destroyed by the pouring rainwater. This is not a joke, because unfortunately, many of these disasters will be expected in the future, and those whose property is damaged will not laugh at it. Before they say that Hungary is not exposed to climate change, detailed research shows that the southern part of the Great Plain and the surrounding capital will be extremely affected by climate change, the increase of heat waves, floods and inland waters. Your main ally, the Czech Prime Minister, found that why should we decide 31 years earlier what will happen in 2050? Fidesz could have said that, because you're always willing to think for four years in advance, always until the next election. Dear Secretary of State, Are you willing to think long-term, think about the future of our children, Hungary, or just until the 2022 elections? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2019-06-24-132	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Farkas.
u2019-06-24-133	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to remind you that you have addressed your question to the wrong place, even because climate policy is responsible for the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, but apart from that, I will try to answer it. Hungary is one of those states whose exposure to the effects of climate change is far greater than its actual responsibility to bring about the process of climate change. However, this tells us that we must do everything we can to adapt effectively to the effects of climate change. For this reason, Hungary has already set itself clear and ambitious targets for 2020 and 2030 in three major areas of climate policy: renewable energy production, energy efficiency and greenhouse gas emissions reduction. In spring 2016, our country was the first to ratify the Paris Agreement with a unanimous parliamentary decision within the European Union, thus expressing its commitment to curb climate change and its negative effects. The second national strategy for climate change in Hungary has been completed and adopted by the Parliament, for which action plans for a period of three years have been drawn up. In view of the storms over the past week, it is perhaps most recent that ongoing interventions are aimed at protecting against lightning floods, water management in the water retention hills and the development of urban precipitation water management systems, the safe collection, retention and recovery of precipitation taking into account climate change. [[16.10]] The principle of our fight against climate change is that it is the responsibility of the present generation to provide clean water, clean environment and clean air for future generations. We also work in this spirit in the Agricultural Ministry, and we have set ourselves a visionary goal to create a greener, more natural-loving and more environmentally conscious Hungary. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-24-134	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The congressman has a rejoinder.
u2019-06-24-135	Thank you for the floor. These words are very nice, Mr. State Secretary, but we know that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has also said that we should not listen to what they say, but what they are doing. You voted against this proposal and said that it would be voted in if you saw the resources available in the European Union and that it was being negotiated. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there are many such sources of renewable energy, energy efficiency. There was one that the European Union gave to the people to insulate their own house and therefore lower the rent bill. You have lobbied it in Brussels to spend this money on the state's own buildings. Thus, there will be very, very much overhead, and you still do not support the rejection of such proposals that Hungary [[Dr. Sándor Fazekas: You don't know how to do this! Sit down.]] be protected from climate change.
u2019-06-24-136	Thank you, Congressman. The rejoinder also deserves the Secretary of State.
u2019-06-24-137	Honourable Congressman, While the government is actually working towards our climate protection and adaptation goals, the opposition representatives are exhausting their actions in word flowers and slippages. In fact, we cannot even say that they would be willing to participate in a substantive debate on climate policy. We cannot forget that, at the end of last year, on 12 December 2018, opposition representatives were not present on their political debate day. The representatives of the government and the representatives of the governing parties were here, we were prepared, we were ready to discuss the issue, but you were excluded from the substantive discourse and the real professional debate. They missed the opportunity to prove that they really have something to say on this matter. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-24-138	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, F Sándor Kovács, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:. What tools can be used to ensure the protection of personal data? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr Pál Völner as Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. Mr Sándor Kovács has the floor.
u2019-06-24-139	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ákos Hadházy's political performance is known to many, because we know that he is able to make a secret recording of his own party associates, bring his own partymates to an ethics committee, try to exclude them, and if he finds himself against the legitimate, tough and sometimes small exaggerating criticism of his own party mates, such as Róbert Sallai Benedek, he wonders. We remember his violent behavior in the headquarters of MTVA, which stretches to clowning and tragic comedy, when he was hanging on the railings, performing acrobatic stunts. But that's not the biggest problem. He started collecting signatures for the purpose of collecting signatures, and the sensitive personal data of Hungarian citizens came to foreign organisations with vague backgrounds. [[Tibor Bana: File a complaint.]] Lucky it's out of the question. [[Tibor Bana: Make the report then!]] Congressman Robert Benedek Sallai of the LMP. They've gone to blurry companies, supported by MSZP and Momentum. The opposition representative is in favour of not telling us why he has not prepared a contract with this company, where these data are, what purpose he has entrusted to this foreign company, and what kind of work he has entrusted to cover for this company. We are waiting for your answer on how it might have occurred that the sensitive personal data of Hungarian citizens abroad [[Tibor Bana: You guys talk to the Kubatov list?]] He sent it to a company with a blurry background. Dear Secretary of State, In view of what has been said, I would like to ask you how to ensure the security of sensitive and personal data of Hungarian citizens. Thank you very much for your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-06-24-140	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner. [[Péter Ungár: Hard!]]
u2019-06-24-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The European Union law governing the protection of personal data directly in force, i.e. the General Data Protection Regulation, has been mandatory in the Member States of the European Union since 25 May 2018. This regulation also applies to Ákos Hadházy. The Regulation requires the processing of personal data in a lawful and fair manner and in a transparent manner for the data subject. Personal data shall only be processed for specific, clear and legitimate purposes and shall not be treated in a manner incompatible with those purposes and shall be processed in such a way as to ensure adequate security of personal data, including protection against unauthorised or unlawful processing, accidental loss, destruction or damage to personal data, by the application of appropriate technical or organisational measures. The Regulation sets out the legal bases for the processing and collection of personal data. The processing of personal data may only take place in accordance with the purpose of the processing, until the end of the purpose, as a result of the principles already mentioned, and the deletion of the data should then be taken into account. It also allows for the processing of personal data. The Regulation provides for the use of a data processor's contract or legislation. It also provides for the mandatory content of the contract or legislation, in particular that the processor may process personal data solely on the basis of written instructions from the controller, that the processor is bound by confidentiality, and that the processor also takes the necessary data security measures. You can also sanction any failure or violation of all of this with the NAIH fine. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-24-142	Thank you, Secretary of State Völner. Congressman Sándor F Kovács has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2019-06-24-143	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Secretary. After that, we can only hope that the personal and sensitive data of hundreds of thousands of Hungarian citizens has not fallen into the wrong hands. [[Tibor Bana: To you?]] they do not do much harm to these citizens, and we can only hope that this practice will stop ringing. It is very interesting that in this case the MSZP and Momentum, who fully supported this collection of signatures, may also be listening to the data processing of the company with a foreign obscure background. Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. [[Tibor Bana: Soros! A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-24-144	Thank you, Congressman. You have a chance to rejoin the Secretary of State.
u2019-06-24-145	Thank you. Criminal law, of course, also offers protection in these cases, although due to the ultima ratio nature of this law it can only sanction abnormally serious infringements. A criminal offence of personal data abuse may be established if the perpetrator treats the data unduly or otherwise than the purpose, fails to take the measure to ensure the security of the data, or violates the obligation to provide the information required for him, thereby causing significant harm to the interests or for the purpose of making a profit. After all this, there are numerous questions about the case. Who is the data owner, since the congressman himself collected data, or the parties behind whom they supported the collection of signatures? Will there be another congressman who will take the stand and hide behind his immunity and commit these violations? So there are a lot of unclear questions in this case. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-24-146	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Anita Kotocsáné Kőrösi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. It's an address. The Minister asked Mr Péter Cseresnyés, State Secretary, to reply in response to an urgent public task. Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi has the floor.
u2019-06-24-147	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The Balaton is everyone's, that's the most important government position. A quote from János Lázár on 14 December 2017 about Government Info. [[16.20]] Since then, 557 days have passed, and now we see a different kind of wind blowing that particular sail. At the end of last year, we raised our voices against the amendment of the Balaton Act. At the time, the Balaton Act was amended so that the municipalities and the state could make it a priority development area. What do we see? Camps disappear, free beaches disappear, reeds disappear, while apartment houses, luxury villas and various NER-related hotels appear. Another beach in Keszthely, waterfront area disappears, perhaps the last meter is one of the news of the past few days. What do we see? Sailing ports, coastal hotels, campsites. My question is, is this how you took this area in the NER elite Keszthely? [[Attila Mesterházy: Shame!]] This is the area you've occupied, this free beach? Is this your new summer capital? What are you doing? Everyone on Lake Balaton? Why don't they do that? Why did you have to put this declaration into the Balaton Act as a priority area? And why did you put this in the hands of a 100% state-owned company? So that he can decide what is built on the shore of Lake Balaton, and not that the people who come to Lake Balaton to relax can fit into our national treasure, Lake Balaton? ! I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-24-148	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2019-06-24-149	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Everyone still owns the Balaton. This is why, at the end of last year, on 12 December, the Balaton Act was ratified by the Parliament, to be more precise: the part of the Parliament that was not occupied with disorderly conduct. Because, if I remember correctly, on December 15th, instead of doing their job here with the opposition parties and factions, they whistled, shouted, and tried to create a situation where we couldn't accept laws. It's probably because they weren't paying attention, causing them not to know exactly what the adoption of a certain Balaton law meant, what it contains in order to actually use this password, this cry, this intention to make everyone on Lake Balaton a reality. This law preserved and confirmed the previous provisions for the protection of Lake Balaton, such as the integration rate of the beaches of at least 65% green and up to 10%, the protection of green areas of public use, the inland coastal length of the settlement, and the requirement of a minimum of 30% of the promenades. The same law also introduced new protection rules, such as the fact that the combined coastal length of green areas, beaches and campsites cannot be reduced; this also contradicts what you just said. The area intended for new installation on the waterfront shall not be designated and the build-up rate shall not be increased. These provisions were made because we believe that the availability of Lake Balaton is a public interest [[Lajos Rig: Built in with a hotel!]] , which can be ensured by the establishment and maintenance of a high-quality area with as many and greater public functions as possible. To illustrate the special status of Lake Balaton, it is enough to look at the developments of the past years, which are intended to further increase the attractiveness of the lake area and improve its accessibility. This is also demonstrated by the fact that almost 1.6 million people traveled to Lake Balaton in the summer, 120,000 more than a year earlier. What else does it mean that so many people traveled there than everyone on Lake Balaton and everyone sees Lake Balaton as their own? Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-24-150	Thank you, Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés. Congresswoman Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi has the opportunity to reply in return.
u2019-06-24-151	Thank you very much. I didn't get an answer to my question. I asked you a specific question about the free beach in Keszthely, and you tell me about the amendment of the Lake Balaton Act, which specifically refers to the possibility of declaring any area as a priority area for development. What I see is that in the coming period, more and more of these measures will be taken to surround the Balaton from the people with a fence so that they can't reach it, even though everyone has the right to walk. If you close this section here in Keszthely, this free-coastal area, you will deprive the citizens of this right, and you will have to go far away to see it, as they say, from the north coast to the south coast and from the south coast to the north. Take action in this. Don't let this happen, because Lake Balaton belongs to everyone.
u2019-06-24-152	Thank you, Congresswoman. You have a chance to rejoin the Secretary of State.
u2019-06-24-153	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The Law of Lake Balaton doesn't contradict what you said. The opposition wants to convince people about the privatization of Lake Balaton. This is contrary to what we want, because we want everyone to have Lake Balaton, everyone who goes to Lake Balaton to enjoy the opportunities offered by Lake Balaton for relaxation, bathing and leisure. Accordingly, of course, the development and construction of Lake Balaton is in our common interest. The Kisfaludy beach development programme, launched two years ago, also serves this purpose: until 2030, the family-friendly, safe and accessible renewal of all open-water beaches, which applies not only to Lake Balaton, but also to other areas. The aim is to ensure that as many people as possible are able to use our common values and treasures to spend their leisure time, spend holidays, recharge. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-24-154	Thank you, Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés. Dear Parliament, Imre Vejkey, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. How does the government help families during holidays? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. Congressman Imre Vejkey has the floor.
u2019-06-24-155	Dear Secretary of State, A few days ago, the summer vacation began, which is an extraordinary joy for about 1.5 million children in primary and secondary school. The family support system developed by the Fidesz-KDNP government since 2010 consists of a number of parts, one of the important elements of which is the free feeding of children. Thanks to government efforts, for the fourth year there has been a holiday meal not only during the summer but also during the four school holidays, so parents of children in need can apply for a free meal. The Christian Democratic People's Party stands for all measures to strengthen and support the smallest unit of social coexistence, the family. The 2020 budget is a budget for supporting families, which also means that the government is paying more attention to families than ever before. Dear Secretary of State, The complex family support program helps the situation of all the families involved and makes it easier to have children. Some measures of the Family Protection Action Plan will be available from July and all measures will be available from 2020. On the basis of the above, I ask Mr. Secretary of State how the government helps families during holidays. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-24-156	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2019-06-24-157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The Erzsébet Camps, the Erzsébet programme, are already known by almost everyone in Hungary. I would like to give you a brief update on this year's numbers and expansions, but first I would like to note how many children were in Elizabeth camps before 2010. Zero, one child... [[Gergely Arató: In fact, there was no pause, Mr. Secretary of State. Calling out from the opposition: It was a slave camp! Deterioration in opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] That's what you're laughing at, fellow Members... [[Gergely Arató: The boys worked in the mine!]]
u2019-06-24-158	Go on. Secretary of State, continue.
u2019-06-24-159	Just to see the difference [[Lajos Rig: The break has been canceled! The president's ringing again.]] : then zero children, this year 130,000 children and their escorts can go very cheaply, for a few hundred or maybe just a few thousand forints a week, and since 2016, 316,000 children and their escorts have managed to reach Erzsébet camp. [[16.30]] There are sleeping Erzsébet camps that began on June 16 in Zánka. For 11 weeks, 30,000 children can enjoy a very special holiday there, including Hungarians from across the border from Transcarpathia and 900 Ukrainian-ethnic students from Transcarpathia, who will learn Hungarian here, 500 from Felvidék, Transylvania, Croatia, hundreds of children will arrive. This year's innovation is that everyone can travel there and back free of charge, so the rail journey is free, and even direct trains from Miskolc and the South Railway Station are also started from Erzsébet, of course they were also free of charge. In Transylvania there is also an Erzsébet camp, there are 1700 vacations, and there will be camps where Hungarians in Hungary and Transylvania can camp together and vacation together. The Healing St. Elisabeth Camps in 17 tours offer a total of thousands of children to relax in Zalasabar and Tihany. Here we can talk about children who are recovering from illness or requiring special care. In the day-care Erzsébet camps 55,000 children are expected, four meals a day are provided for them in hundreds of parts of the country. And what's new this year is kindergarten day camp Elizabeth. I'll continue the rest in rejoinder. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-24-160	Thank you very much. Congressman Vejkey has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2019-06-24-161	Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your answer to my question. I think that was particularly important. It would have been a priority not only for us pro-government representatives but also for our fellow opposition Members to listen to the data, the objective facts that the Secretary of State has said. It was important for me, a Christian Democratic Member, because for me, the support of families and the continuous improvement of their family conditions are one of my objectives, and therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we must not forget children during holidays. They may not need to be studied, but as a child, we do have an obligation to deal with them. That is why we consider it important and necessary to support the measures that the Secretary of State has said about raising children, also on the holiday with regard to the support of children. Thank you again. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-24-162	Thank you very much. You have the opportunity to rejoin Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2019-06-24-163	Thank you very much. For the government, the child is the first, which is why it was important for us to open a new card for both camping and the state to help families with this, and the other is the issue of a holiday meal. As you know, you know that what our predecessors have spent HUF 29 billion on, we are spending HUF 79 billion on this year, and next year we will be spending another record of HUF 82.5 billion to get social catering to every child whose parents require it. During the summer holiday, it is not only important that children can eat free or at a discount for several days, because here we increased the length of the social meals from 54 days to 70 days, but also that students can receive a higher quality and more abundant quantity, because while in 2010 there was a lot of HUF 370 that could cover the cost of eating children for one day. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] This HUF 370 is now HUF 570, so it has been a 50 percent increase in recent years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-24-164	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Zita Gurmai, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question by saying that he has vetoed the future of our planet. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: So, specifically, the future of the planet. It's Star Wars! Armageddon!]] The Prime Minister has appointed Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Prime Minister for the answer in person.
u2019-06-24-165	Yes, I accept, thank you very much.
u2019-06-24-166	You have the floor, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai.
u2019-06-24-167	Dear Minister, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, Last Thursday, Hungary, together with the Czech Republic and Poland, vetoed the EU proposal that would have made the member states of the European Union carbon neutral by 2050. In doing so, the government has vetoed not only the environment but also our future. Carbon emissions, which are the sum total of greenhouse gas emissions, are responsible for the biggest problems of our time alone, such as global warming and air pollution. First, if we do not act against it, in a few decades it will make the Earth uninhabitable, and the latter is already demanding the lives of thousands of Hungarians each year. Global warming threatens us, as it increases the number of extreme weather conditions, increasing the increase in the already unbearable heat waves that increase the risk of death among older people and chronic patients. It destroys the soil's fertility, makes the environment desert, causing famine, reduces the amount of water available, drys out our lakes, rivers, destroys the river basins of the Danube. This not only harms Hungary's world-famous water supply, but also makes the cooling of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant very difficult in the long run. Health is threatened not only by global warming but also by air pollution. Each year, 12 800 people die of diseases caused by air pollution, such as bronchitis, asthma, lung cancer. This is thanks to the fact that air pollution in Hungary exceeds the health limit for 100 days a year. This means that we inhale the air harmful to health in Hungary for a third of the year. Moreover, the air of our country is much worse than that of neighbouring countries. This is why in Hungary one and a half to two times as many people die because of air pollution as in neighbouring countries. In view of the above, I would like to ask why they vetoed the climate target and voted against the future of our children. Why can't they see it? [[The president's ringing the bell.]] That if they don't do something right away, the human race has no future in the long run? Thank you very much. [[A statement from the opposition: That's right! Applause in the lines of MSZP and LMP.]]
u2019-06-24-168	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance in response.
u2019-06-24-169	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You know or feel that the framework of an immediate question, a minute or two questions and answers are not enough to talk about such matters more carefully. It is therefore regrettable that on 12 December 2018, when it was a political debate on climate change, you did not participate in it. We would have been ready for this debate; unfortunately, this could not have happened then. [[Peter Cseresnyés: That's right!]] As to your question, who doesn't want cleaner water, who doesn't want cleaner air, more bearable climate? We are in the same position, Hungary is doing everything it can for this reason, and this is how we have established our energy policy. Hungary has climate commitments, climate targets, we can achieve them by 2030, so that the climate is improving, and Hungarian people, Hungarian families, do not have to pay any more money for this. The proposal you mentioned in your proposal, in your question, was to move on now and make commitments for 2050. We could agree with the aim here, too, but until we can see where the money is, I feel that it would have been irresponsible for us to commit to this. There was also a debate on climate targets on nuclear energy, and let's not forget that. If we are to achieve climate targets, then we also need nuclear energy in this fundamental debate between us and you. Hungary would like to do so, so we would like to achieve our climate targets, which requires nuclear energy. Believe me, without Paks there is no low rent, there is no low rent bill for Hungarian families! This was the reason for the debate, which is why Hungary, like Poland and the Czech Republic, had to veto on this issue. I hope, honourable Member, that we will have another opportunity to explain our position to each other in a more detailed and more time-frame. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-24-170	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister of Finance. The congresswoman is entitled to a one-minute rejoinder.
u2019-06-24-171	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Thank you for the encouragement, we will make your proposal. But I still don't feel that the weight of the problem is perfectly felt. By the way, I ask quietly: in fact, almost everyone in the European People's Party voted for this because, yes, I think it is a very serious responsibility. In Hungary, emissions of air pollutants and greenhouse gases have increased steadily since 2013, and I am asking what they have done. This is so high that, for example, in the construction sector, it has risen to a height not seen for 10 years in 2016, and in the case of trade and motor vehicle driving, we can only talk about a decrease because greenhouse gas emissions in this area in 2015 were more than 20 percent higher than in 2009. It is therefore worth mentioning these, not to mention that Minister Kásler, when presenting the public health programme, said that the aim is to keep people in health for as long as possible, to develop diseases as soon as possible, to be recognizable in their early stages and to continue. I would therefore use the Minister's proposal in any way, and I am confident that [[The president's ringing the bell.]] They'll be cooperative. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-24-172	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga has a one-minute rejoinder.
u2019-06-24-173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I too am confident, Congresswoman, that the facts, the data, have a basis in a debate. I have already said here, in answer to another question, that Hungary has reduced its greenhouse gas emissions by 32 percent since the change in the system. [[16.40]] And you know that 60 percent of Hungary's electricity production is already free of greenhouse gas emissions. Of which 50 per cent can be attributed to nuclear energy and 10 per cent to renewable energy. So, believe me, Congresswoman, that's what we're trying to do. What you would have expected of the Hungarian Government to jump into a proposal without any specific financial calculations, commit itself to goals that you do not know the financial, fiscal and financial implications of. The Hungarian government acted responsibly, as did the Czech Republic and Poland. We say that we need a much more thorough analysis and analysis in order to achieve this type of goal by 2050. [[Péter Ungár: So do we.]] That's what we're gonna do, just like we've been doing all these years. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-24-174	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, We're going to move on to the next agenda. We're gonna go straight to Question Time. Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology: Mr. Ádám Steinmetz has the floor.
u2019-06-24-175	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, For two years there has been a sign for those who travel on the Mesztműnyő, that there will be a bicycle road winding around here. The bicycle route connecting the Mesztegnyő small railway with the Balaton bike route was supported by HUF 500 million, which also crossed the seven settlements in Somogy. Before the elections in 2018, my colleague, József Attila Móring, who I welcome [[József Attila Moring, standing up from the notary seat, nods to Dr. Ádám Steinmetz.]] announced to the mayors of the region that the investment would begin shortly. He said that this has a very serious and multi-level message, as we not only facilitate the transport of people who go to work by bicycle, but also increase the attractions of Lake Balaton. The good news is that the people living in the region, including me, were very pleased, because the project would provide an alternative for cyclists instead of the accident risky road 68 that had long to be renovated. But we were disappointed. According to statements published in the press, this bike trip should have been used a year ago, but not even a single cut was made. The procurement procedure was found to be ineffective as the amount of the available financial cover is insufficient to conclude the contracts. I therefore ask the Secretary of State why it is not possible to invest in two years with such political support, which is essential for the development of the small region in Marcal. When will the people living here have the opportunity to ride a bicycle in safe conditions instead of the dangerous road 68? We look forward to your reply with all due respect.
u2019-06-24-176	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2019-06-24-177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government will focus on further development of sustainable modes of transport such as cycling and improving road safety. As you may know, the complex renovation of the Balaton bike circle is underway, and the first stage this spring was confirmed and repaired at 42 kilometers out of 70 million forints. The renovation will continue in the second half of August. Even this year, the 110 km long bicycle route between Budapest and Lake Balaton will begin. As part of the related service development, 800 km of hiking trails are designated in the area of the Hungarian sea. In line with the government's objectives, the municipality of the municipality of Mesztegnyő won 500 million HUF in support of the project for sustainable urban transport development of the regional and local development operational programme for the development of the bicycle route between Balatonmáriafürdő and Mesztegnyő about 18 kilometers long. You are aware that significant changes have occurred in the construction sector, prices have increased, so the amount previously awarded cannot fully cover the cost, so according to our information, the management of the municipality has indicated this to the managing authority. If the application is submitted after the municipality receives a favourable assessment of the increase in the amount of resources and the total amount of resources required is available, then the bicycle route may be completed. Of course, once you know that there must be a public procurement procedure, this may take several months. This work is expected to begin next year. There is every possibility and every assurance that this work will be completed within a reasonable time. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-24-178	Thank you, Secretary of State Cseresnyés. Dear Parliament, László Hajdu, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources: "What kind of public interest? ! It's an address. Mr László Hajdu has the floor.
u2019-06-24-179	Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, It is well known that it has been nationalised from the municipalities everywhere, who had a public education institution, school, children, teachers, and finally building stock. We just heard that the summer season is coming, and then the kids get free meals, which, of course, is not exactly the case. But I would like to mention another leg of this summer period, these two months, when children can't go to school, but they also want to play sports in these two months. There are 26 sports associations in the district with 2500-2600 certified athletes, but you can go in if you pay rent separately for the summer period, because this is only valid for 10 months. And student sports, since they transferred to the district board, have been subject to rent ever since, and are constantly increased; the board of directors of the school district is subject to revenue, and they have nothing to do with it. I would like to ask what it is that regulates it, because earlier, we gave an example, for 190 HUF, a basement room to a sports club operating 23 years ago with about 180 children, and now the 190 HUF usage fee has been raised to 1600. I think he's been put on a business, market basis with such increases. While we are on paper the owners of the municipality, but in fact the benefits of the district board are being taken. Recruiting, student sports, recreational sports, and I can tell you, mass sports suffer. Do you think this is correct, Mr. Secretary, that this is the case? [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition.]]
u2019-06-24-180	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2019-06-24-181	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is quite simple in some ways to answer your question, since the Public Education Act is 76. §2 of the directive is the one that settles the question that you referred to. Obviously, in everyday practice, it depends on the school district, depending on exactly where, how these gymnasiums, classrooms, real estate are rented. Obviously, on the one hand, it is always required of the district to have renovations, its own income, so make the most of those classrooms outside of school time, whether in the afternoons or in the spring, autumn, winter break or during the summer break, which is not used by students during these break periods. But, on the other hand, it is obviously also expected for many people to have a sports club or other activities, so that they can get in as cheaply as possible and to open up sports opportunities to as many young people as possible. Obviously, in the event that the organizer of sports himself collects money from those who participate in this, from students, from adults, from anyone else, it is logical that he also pays the rent to the institution. I think it's good that the schools can use these properties as much as possible, and it's important that once we have built gymnasiums, we have built swimming pools that are not usually in the maintenance of the district, then get to as many as possible, so let's distribute these to as many groups as possible to play basketball, soccer, whatever else, aerobics or anything else. And it's also fair that it obviously has costs, which should be passed on proportionately to the person who uses it. Heating, lighting and all that. So I'm hoping that the more groups or persons you've said you could receive in these schools, the more your own income is, and the more people you've said you'd be able to play sports and move. Thank you very much. [[16.50]]
u2019-06-24-182	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Office a question: "Do you believe it now? It's an address. The question will be answered on behalf of the Prime Minister on behalf of László Palkovics, Minister of Innovation and Technology, who is competent on the subject, by State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés. Congressman Antal Csárdi has the floor.
u2019-06-24-183	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The Fidesz really clearly sees our environment as an expendable resource, but at the same time, even the greens that we have seen are shockingly surprised by the fact that Fidesz does not simply sabotage the fight against climate change, but is proud of it. It practically makes a lot of decisions by ignoring the changes in our environment, our skin. A very good example of this is the capital city, where investments are made at the price of green areas, high-quality green areas disappearing, or, for example, it can be seen precisely that, at temperatures above 30 degrees, public transport is not prepared for these hot flashes. I think it's worth stopping here for a moment that we're not talking in the air. I was a representative of the capital when the government made it impossible for metro 3 to be replaced by new vehicles, and I was there when practically a clever little humbug with the Russians practically resulted in new trains being brought at the same price, but instead of providing high-quality and modern trains in an air-conditioned way for metro 3. My question is simple, Minister, when will the government finally realise that heat alarms must be adequately answered? When will the government allow the City Council or local authorities to make the right investments? Can we expect that they will not prevent these investments from starting or developing? Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2019-06-24-184	Thank you very much. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2019-06-24-185	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, Unfortunately, I must say that my answer to this question must begin by accusing the government of denying climate change or not checking the credibility of your information, or simply not telling the truth and slandering it. If you would have listened or been here all the way through Parliament, or four times today, the Government has said that we consider climate protection important and we are doing everything we can to protect the climate and do everything we can to protect our environment. Honourable Congressman, Please name one government representative who has ever denied climate change. Today, once again, it has been said at least four times that we are doing everything we can to protect our environment, to protect the climate. You know very well that the Government also prioritises efforts to combat climate change and adaptation and preparation measures, meeting international commitments. At least four times, some data have been provided on what we have done to achieve this, we can achieve the objectives set, and we have shown by numbers that we have, in some cases, already overachieved pro rata time-related commitments, as we are expected. If we turn to the capital, I'd like to deny your claims. Contrary to your claim, the green areas in Budapest are constantly renewed and expanded, including greening investments such as the Liget project, the renewal of the Orczy Garden [[Antal Csárdi laughs.]] and ten-hectare expansion, the 1.5-hectare public park of the Campus of MOME Zugliget or the student town planned in South Pest and North Csepel, which creates the largest active green area of Budapest in the place of brownfield landscapes. In view of all of this, it is particularly regrettable that LMP, as it currently does not have a real message relevant to society, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I mean, he's short on topics, he's trying to accuse me of such extra actions. [[Dr. János Fónagy: That's right! The president's ringing again.]] Please refrain from doing so in the next period. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Antal Csárdi: Secretary of State, walk with me through the city.]]
u2019-06-24-186	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai, a representative of Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. Do you support the demand of metropolitans to use cheaper, better-quality public transport, improving quality of life, reducing traffic jams? It's an address. Congressman Bence of Turdai has the floor.
u2019-06-24-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. It is also a good choice because there are new proposals for public policy solutions, in this case I will talk about basic transport income, and I will ask your opinion on this. Gergely Karácsony, mayor-designate, said that in the event of his election as mayor, he would give all Budapesters a community transport grant, a transport support that at the moment will be given to motorists who can park there in a paid zone free of charge with their cars, and in this sense the capital now supports as many as possible to keep cars, with a HUF one-and-a-half million per year. All right, we're gonna support you so that everyone around your home can park free of charge. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Oh, how kind. Generous!]] However, we say that not only car owners should receive transport support, but also those who use community transport or choose other modes of mobility. We say that it is possible to decide who will use the basic transport income: either to park free of charge in front of his home, or if he resigns or never has a car, then he can buy an annual BKK lease at a reduced price, or to support the use of other means of mobility in his case. We see that this solution would reduce the burden of downtown cars, improve the quality of the environment, the interoperability of the city, make the environment more livable and greener, not only in Budapest, but also in other Hungarian cities. Our question is that, given the government's role in the financing of public transport, they rightly support this type of solution, support Gergely Christmas's proposal for basic transport income, transport aid in Budapest, or perhaps a better idea of how to make public transport cheaper for people. I look forward to your reply.
u2019-06-24-188	Thank you very much, notary Bence Tordai, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2019-06-24-189	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, If you speak up, you can see that there is no shortage of unfulfilled and unreasonable, confusing promises, especially when it comes to the acquisition of Christmas Gregory's position. He was the one who promised the basic income, the 13th month's pension, the free drug, the double pension minimum, the double family allowance, the radical wage increase of health workers, the launch of a self-destructive housing program, and dozens of other unfunded promises, maybe you could say it was a lie. He promised this, who couldn't even keep Zugló's finances in order: the district government is overspending [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP and Dialogue.]] , significant amounts continue to flow through parking contracts. Nevertheless, he is now throwing money away from a chair he is not even close to. Honourable Congressman, It seems to you that the opposition wreck derby is developing negatively, as the supporters are constantly standing behind your partner. I wouldn't be surprised if even the MSZP with so little support could see the complete inadequacy of Gergely Christmas and your total incompetence to control and leadership. The only driving force behind the boring cast this time, it seems, is the desperate desire of power. But to provide factual data: BKV Zrt. during the governance of your allies. The capital accumulated HUF 53 billion in losses and HUF 217 billion in debt, without a substantial transport investment being completed during this period. [[Miklós Soltész: Crap!]] On the contrary, since 2010, the State has consolidated municipal debts [[Gergely Arató: He took money from schools and hospitals!]] , the government and the capital jointly invested some 700 billion HUF in the development of transport in Budapest, improving the quality of local public transport. Urban development will continue in the future, embodied in tangible progress by everyone, since the 15 points of the agreement concluded by Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and Mayor István Tarlós will total more than HUF 1000 billion. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] is a development aid for Budapest. You'll have to support that. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[17.00]]
u2019-06-24-190	Thank you, Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés. Dear Parliament, Péter Ágh, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question:. How can the action of the village CSOK or the Economic Protection Action Plan contribute to increasing the retention power of Vas county and encouraging home creation? It's an address. Congressman Péter Agh has the floor.
u2019-06-24-191	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Experience shows that today's opposition, when it was in power, was not under socialist governments in favour of the countryside, small settlements. However, there has also been a change in this area since 2010. It was one of the big steps of the government towards the municipalities to take over the debts. It also provided development aid to municipalities that did not have it. In addition, the decisions of recent years have been able to renew institutions for the preservation of the countryside. Thus, in many places kindergartens, schools, community centers, medical clinics, or churches could be reborn. For my constituency, this kind of support policy is of strategic importance. Of my 77 settlements, with the exception of three, it has a number of souls of less than 5,000 people in northern Vas County. It is also important for the whole Vas county because this region is a small village. Dear Secretary of State, Over the past centuries, people here have done a lot and fought to give their place to the generations after them. However, this also gives us many tasks to contribute step by step to development. It is our great confidence that the Hungarian village program of the government will also help this with a single element. Therefore, there is plenty of responsibility, but the country's leadership is a partner in managing them, taking into account the resources available. In addition to the developments, however, it is also important to be able to help those who want to make homes in villages and small towns and to start a family. Dear Secretary of State, On the basis of the above, I respectfully ask how the government, the village CSOK, or the measures of the economic protection action plan can contribute to increasing the conservation power of Vas county and encouraging home creation. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-24-192	Thank you, Congressman Peter Agh. I give the floor to Secretary of State Miklós Soltész. [[Attila Mesterházy: Take it hard!]]
u2019-06-24-193	Thank you for asking. Honourable Congressman, Asked or asked Attila Mesterházy to be hard. [[Attila Mesterházy: That's right!]] You are absolutely right, the policy that the left-wing liberals carried out before 2010, be on the government, be at the head of the settlements, and be in the thinking of whether rural people matter, it must be forgotten, because it has brought debt, contempt for rural people, and, by the way, I add to the previous debate in the capital: total destruction of the capital and its debt. Obviously, this had to be changed over the past years, and the first really biggest, most significant step was the debt reduction or debt waiver for each settlement, whether it was a capital city, county-righted towns or even small villages, which had been completely destroyed by a bad previous economic policy. But obviously, we also need to take steps that will help us to live and stay locally, especially in small settlements of less than 5,000 people, including in your constituency. I especially thank you for the work you have done in recent years for all the people and others who work in these settlements, because this has brought forward a series of decisions that can be linked to two dates: 1 July and 1 January of next year. On the 1st of July, the village CSOK's home-building leg will start, which is that all those who buy renovated apartments or expand will also receive the full support. The second one, which will start on 1 January next year, is that, in the framework of the economic protection action plan, after 1 January 2020, the government will grant tax refund support for the renovation and expansion of new buildings, built and used in small towns, up to a limit of HUF 5 million. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you very much for all the fighting you have done for these people in the country. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-24-194	Thank you, Secretary of State, Miklós Soltész. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question: "Bélmegyer: the most tangible example of fidesz unscrupulousness, lawlessness and arrogance. It's an address. Mr Zoltán Magyar has the floor.
u2019-06-24-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. As you know, two years ago, you redistributed hunting grounds, hunting rights. Indeed, many of us could not be surprised at the outcome of this, since we knew your methods, they could run over anyone by any means, if that were in their way. I've made a lot of unfair decisions here, in front of Parliament, over a dozen. These were all cases where, in contrast to the local interest, the interests of the otherwise uncomplicated landowners and their hunting company, the state practically switched sides with another interest, and fidesz circles acquired these greasy hunting grounds. We know what the point of this was, because you guys make the most of billions of people on a soccer tournament break and on a hunt. But the story of Belmegyeri goes beyond that, where Lőrinc Mészáros and his family's hunting company won the hunting rights against the interests of the local landowners, of course, with state aid, I don't have to say. Since then, all lawsuits have been lost, permanently banned from that area, yet to this day they are hunting with the permission of the intestinal hunting company. For the record, it's the Btk. 245. According to paragraph (a) of Section A, this exhausts the facts of poaching, but clearly this does not bother the Butcher family at all and continues this activity. What we would be very interested to know in this matter is that the hunting authority has been instructed by you or the Minister, or by anyone from the state, to still give the Ripper family virtually the opportunity to hunt against court judgments. Did you know about this case? If so, why didn't you take any action? If they didn't know, why would they lie? 'Cause they had to know, if nothing else, it was my written questions. What's the end of this? Doesn't the law apply equally to everyone in Hungary, Mr. Secretary? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I look forward to your substantive answer.
u2019-06-24-196	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Farkas.
u2019-06-24-197	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, For your information, the landowner community can make meaningful decisions in matters related to the development of hunting grounds. On the Authority's side, the territorially competent first instance hunting authority shall have procedural competence. In relation to the hunting area in question, the competent administrative body has always acted in accordance with the legal provisions, subject to ongoing other procedures. There have recently been several administrative orders and judicial judgments in this case. According to the information provided by the Ministry of Agriculture, the case is currently subject to several administrative cases, judicial proceedings and a review procedure is still pending before the Curia. In view of the ongoing judicial proceedings and the 2016 CL on general administrative order. The competent hunting authority shall be able to take a substantive decision on the matter only after the completion of the legal proceedings referred to, in full knowledge of the legal facts and in the possession of the decisions. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-24-198	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Dear Congressman Peter Ungár, The last question will take place. Congressman Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question:. What is happening in Szombathely? It's an address. Congressman Péter Ungár has the floor.
u2019-06-24-199	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, First of all, I'd like to begin by congratulating you on finding the mayor's candidate, and casting... [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: We can't hear it!]]
u2019-06-24-200	Your card? [[Gergely Harvester: You're using my microphone. Defiance. Péter Ungár puts his own microphone on.]] [[17.10]]
u2019-06-24-201	It's a little technical, but nothing's stopping us. [[Defiance.]] If you could restore my time, I'd be honored. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Your mistake!]]
u2019-06-24-202	They're resetting it. Here you go, Congressman. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: What fairness!]]
u2019-06-24-203	But if my time was restored...
u2019-06-24-204	It's already been restored.
u2019-06-24-205	It's been restored. Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The fact is that he ended casting in Szombathely, they elected their candidate for mayor, and one day they left him a time to think, because after 24 hours, after an opposing statement, Péter Balázsy decided that he would be the man to be replaced by the well-respected Tivadar Puskás, who, after all, was an esteemed man on the civilian right, and instead they chose a candidate for mayor who would not even give up the county main register in order to be fully involved in the campaign, and so he thinks that the decision he made in 24 hours would have the result. Even so, they are now trying to do everything they can, and they are in such a desperate situation. The OMSZ itself is being used for political gain, since it was said that the new majority in Szombathely and András Nemény, led by Élviz Szombathely and András, are threatening health care, when this was the majority in Szombathely who gave the local doctors extra money and extra money. [[A statement from the opposition: Shame!]] The ones you didn't appreciate. They played the same thing with the university, tried to turn it into a political hysteria. The fact is that Péter Balázsy, a political screen used to cover up the past nine years of doing nothing, humiliated an elderly, very, very respected man. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] For a young man who's basically unproven at the level of the city's leadership. Secretary of State, the Christian Democratic People's Party has lost a new candidate for mayor, and I don't know what the consequences of your coalition negotiations will be if your party partner is Tivadar Puskás. The thing is, if Tivadar Puskás was able to handle his own party in 24 hours, then perhaps the Secretary of State or other Fidesz KDNP politicians, so please at least say a few good words about the former mayor who was humiliated like this. [[A statement from the opposition: Long live András Nemény! Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]]
u2019-06-24-206	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2019-06-24-207	Thank you very much. If we've already turned into a opposition council campaign meeting, it's not the first such speech today, I thought what was going to happen in Szombathely and that you'd be proud to talk about being a champion at Falco basketball NB I. [[Péter Ungár: Congratulations!]] that we could hear something similar from you, that you forgot, it was entirely politics that defined your speech. [[Péter Ungár: This Parliament, right, so politics happens here...]] after the technical obstacles have been overcome. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] What was particularly interesting was that he argued against the inclusion of young people in politics that it is dangerous for young people to be part of the policy, only your own LMP assessment, based on my age, is that young people need to be shunned in politics, but something you are very afraid of in Szombathely, that is something you can see. Honourable Congressman, [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Tivadar Puskás!]] In the case referred to by you, the opposition in Szombathely proved its total inadequacy in relation to the OMSZ, I believe, because first they did that HUF 32 million was lost in relation to the 2019 budget. [[Péter Ungár: No! No more votes!]] members of the opposition majority from funding the medical emergency, then wrote to the mayor, who is a responsible leader of the city [[Péter Ungár and Gergely Arató intervene.]] On 8 April, a letter to the rescue service on what personal, physical and financial conditions are needed to resolve the medical emergency. The rescue service also responded to this on 11 June, in very detailed terms, and also said that this supply resulted in a deficit of HUF 16 million in the last year, but, of course, the rescue service in its budget cannot make up for this money, this HUF 32 million instead of the municipality. [[Gergely Arató and Péter Ungár intervene.]] it must be paid by the municipality. After that, all he could do was cancel this contract with three months' notice. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That's when the opposition had to admit its total incompetence. [[The president's ringing again. Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Time! Péter Ungár: Long live Szombathely!]] as he threatened the medical care of tens of thousands of people in Szombathely, on June 18th [[The president's ringing again.]] I think everyone in the opposition could be ashamed because, after all, they withdrew their previous decision and secured this 32 million forints, but their incompetence is still clear. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] Thank you very much.
u2019-06-24-208	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. This item is also closed. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the provisions relating to the management of certain assets and the amendment of certain laws relating to national financial services and the discussion of the summary amendment will follow. The government referral is T/6352. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee, and I give the chair to Vice-President Tamás Sneider. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]]
u2019-06-24-209	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Mr President, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 20 June 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed the provisions concerning the management of certain assets and the amendment of certain laws relating to national financial services, T/6352. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment and the summary report were adopted by 23 votes to six, with two abstentions. The proposal submitted aims to ensure the further development of the integration structure by amending the Act on the integration of cooperative credit institutions. The bill therefore names a new type of operator, the holding cooperative, as a member of the Integration Organisation of Cooperative Credit Institutions. The holding cooperative can ensure that so far the shareholders of the sector can continue to be part of a cooperative framework for integration participants and is capable of being continuously open to new entrants. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of what has been said, we can conclude that we can talk about a package of legislative proposals involving a number of positive changes, and I would therefore ask for your support for the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-06-24-210	Welcome to my fellow Members. Thank you, Congressman, for your speech. I ask Mr János Fónagy, Secretary of State, if you would like to comment. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor as an author.
u2019-06-24-211	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As a result of Parliament's work, a Commission amendment has been proposed in relation to the bill, which has made codification and language positioning clarifications to ensure linguistic and legal coherence. Thank you for the work of the committees. The bill itself, together with the Commission's amendments, is supported and proposed by the Government. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-24-212	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur, so it is now possible for its representatives to make comments. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát indicated his intention to comment. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-24-213	Mr President, Dear House, I am a little surprised at the package before us, which did not even win the face of an opposition Member at the detailed debate stage, so that he could find out what it means, what kind of government intentions this proposal involves. After all, we see that the market movements of the Savings Bank are very strong. In the past, after the acquisition of TV2, there was virtually a collection of additional banks, and the government is now preparing these movements with a law and a bill, trying to support them, but it is very important to be clear about the purpose of the aid. After all, a series of movements in a savings cooperative or savings bank can be positive, or if it brings positive changes, discounts and additional opportunities for Hungarian customers, I think we are talking about processes to support; if it is the economic acquisitions of simple government minions, then I would not necessarily like to support this bill with my faction. I see two key issues that need to be answered now, in this debate or at any stage, so that we can be able to make a decision on this issue at all. On the one hand, in respect of the new holding cooperative, the institutions concerned are grouped together so that those holding companies would have preferential shareholders of dividends, and these dividend preference shares would be of some use. [[17.20]] Secretary of State for what? What's the point? So we need a specific explanation, in addition to the fact that the justification here has been read several times. Yes, positive market acquisitions are taking place, which are obviously to be supported from your side, and from the opposition side we are a little more skeptical, more cautious about such movements, but here there are specific issues of expertise that I feel we have not yet received an answer to in this debate. In addition, here, when the savings system was transformed, a HUF 140 billion state grant was channeled into the integration organization a good half a decade ago. For this reason, there is a fund of around 170 billion, with which I am very pleased that this has gained its function as a common guarantee fund invested in centralization, and now it cannot be allocated or extracted by fraudulent means, and I am very happy to do so, but it can be spent for a common purpose which this organisation, its members, can formulate. This can be an example of the purchase of Budapest Bank according to certain press speculations. I do not want to speculate, I do not want to suspect; I would simply like these ideas to be dissipated here in this debate, whether within the framework of the closing word, by a national, and if we get an answer to these two key moments, then we will be in the position of decision to say whether or not this proposal can be supported in this form. Once again, we have a very simple approach: what is good and positive for customers, we will support it, whether it was submitted by a pro-government or opposition representative. On the other hand, if we see that there are new acquisitions of not so much friendly persons, and market-acquiring operations, and this is what we need to support with the opportunities provided by this law, we will not be able to be so supportive in that case. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-24-214	Thank you, Congressman. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed and I give Mr János Fónagy the possibility of rejoinder.
u2019-06-24-215	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, As explained in the expozee of the bill and in the Commission's work, the law on the integration of credit institutions essentially aims to ensure the further development of the structure of integration. In our view, the bill will contribute to the further expansion of the prudential supervisory and control powers of the integration body of the main management body for integration, the integration organisation of cooperative credit institutions, and thus improve its transparency. In addition, the central bank responsible for business management will be renewed and will continue to operate as an integration business management organisation. In the future, not only in the form of credit institutions but also in other financial institutions, the organisation's primary task could be to designate a business strategy to support a single business operation. The bill, as has been mentioned several times in recent years, makes the holding cooperative a new member, which ensures that so far the sector's shareholders can continue to be part of this cooperative. In order to strengthen the cooperative tradition, the bill gives priority rights to the holding cooperative and its members in the integration organisation in the election of members of the board of directors and the supervisory board. In the course of the debate, a member, the principle of one vote, has been raised, which can prevail here. On this basis, we continue to firmly believe that the proposal contributes to ensuring that the integrated organisation operates more transparently, transparently, both for its former broad membership and for the Hungarian financial world, and on the basis of the stability provided by the otherwise significant public contribution mentioned by you. On this basis, I would like to reiterate and propose that this House should support and accept this proposal. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-06-24-216	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. We now have the Commission's reports on the amendment of certain public service laws and the debate on the summary amendment proposal. The government referral is T/6353. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey once again.
u2019-06-24-217	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 20 June 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed T/6353 on the amendment of certain public service laws. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report were adopted by 24 votes to eight, with no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The first pillar of the proposal discussed aims to renew the internal organisation of the National University of Public Service and to make amendments to the exercise of employer's rights which are essential to increase the high level of training and the qualifications and professional skills of the teaching staff. In addition to the composition of the instructor and the level of training, appropriate infrastructure is also very important. The necessary significant investments have been made, just thinking about the university's home, the construction of the Ludovika Campus or the renewed Orczy garden, the library, the sports hall, the swimming pool, horse riding, which I mentioned to you in the context of the budgetary debate. Most of these investments can benefit the population of Budapest as a user in addition to the beautiful and orderly environment. The second pillar of the proposal also concerns certain rights and obligations of members of staff preparing for public service. The related clarifications shall specify the amount of pre-financing, discounts, duration of preparation, placement, re-location, employment, proof of compliance with the obligation to prepare, and the extent to which he is entitled to leave. These changes will make the transition period more predictable. The third pillar also amends the Act on Government Administration itself, largely with technical clarifications. In addition, there are some substantive changes affecting the rules for determining the tasks to be performed at the post, the rules on the salary of the head of the government and the head of the head of the central office, and the rules on the salary and additional leave of government and district officials and their alternates. In view of what has been said, I would ask my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-24-218	Thank you, Congressman. I will ask the author if he would like to comment here, in this part of the debate. [[On Tamás Vargha's mark:]] It says no. The designated Judicial Committee has not presented a rapporteur, so we now have representatives' contributions if someone checks in. I do not see such a need, so the debate is closed. And I will ask Mr Tamás Vargha again, Secretary of State, if he would like to comment at the end. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-06-24-219	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, there are three pillars of the bill before us, which amends the law on the National University of Public Service, which creates the right legislative environment for the university. In line with the changed circumstances, it was necessary to bring the government's administrative law and the law on foreign representations and permanent foreign service into line, since Kit. It came into force on 1 March 2019 and, in line with the spirit of the government, we also paid attention to children when amending the law, as from the birth of the child you will be entitled to child-rearing expenses instead of schooling expenses, or until you are 21 years of age, to the completion of secondary education of the child in the foreign service, and this third pillar will also amend the government administrative law itself. [[17 .30]] There was a need for technical amendments and, as we have heard, clarification of the salaries of the heads of the central government office and of the metropolitan and county government offices. I ask this House to accept the bill that has been tabled. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-24-220	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. There follows the discussion of the Commission reports submitted for the submission of an authorisation to station armed forces in Hungary in the United States of America. The government referral is H/6354. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Tamás Vargha, Secretary of State, if he would like to comment. [[For signal:]] At the end, Mr. Secretary will tell you. The designated Defence Committee has not presented a rapporteur, and now there will be speeches from its representatives if someone checks in, but no one has checked in, so the debate, which has not even started, will be closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State... [[For signal:]] He says he wants to say something. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-06-24-221	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, When we negotiated and drafted an agreement between the two governments on defence cooperation with the United States of America, we decided that there was a need to act in accordance with the Fundamental Law and to draft this agreement in such a way as to comply with the Hungarian Fundamental Law. The negotiations have succeeded, and Parliament has also adopted the law on the announcement of an agreement on defence cooperation, and in order to preserve our sovereignty and to comply with the Fundamental Law, we need this proposal for a resolution, which I ask that this House adopt. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-24-222	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Decisions shall be taken at a later meeting. The Commission's reports on the promotion of long-term shareholder engagement and the amendment of certain laws for harmonisation and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. The government referral is T/6343. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I'll give the floor to Mr. László B. Nagy if I can see him in the room, but I can't see him. He's not in the room, it's obvious. Then you obviously do not wish to speak, Mr László B. Nagy. So I ask the rapporteur, Mr Péter Cseresnyés, that he wishes to comment. [[For signal:]] It says no. [[Peter Cseresnyés: Not now!]] No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. Speaking by Members is possible. I'm asking if anyone would like to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] No one wants to have a debate. So the debate that hasn't even started is closed. Once again, I would like to ask the author if he would like to speak to her. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor.
u2019-06-24-223	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear House, The bill before this House, as I have already stressed in the general debate, translates it through the legal provisions of a number of sectors and disciplines, creating the framework, legal institutions and rules that must be reflected in Hungarian legislation as a result of the legislation of the European Union. The proposals for legal harmonisation include amendments to the Civil Code and the Law on Electronic Communications, which are also listed in the title of the bill, in addition to the establishment of a legal framework to encourage long-term shareholder engagement. In addition, the proposed legislation aims at amending sectoral legislation on electromobility, consumer protection, transport, criminal law and infringements. Allow me to briefly summarise the most important elements of the bill. On the subject of shareholder engagement, the bill also sets out new legislation on the functioning of public limited liability companies, in addition to the legislative amendments contained therein. The legislation of the European Union, through a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council encouraging long-term shareholder engagement, takes a number of important steps to significantly improve the functioning of stock exchange firms, the flow of information and information to shareholders. The bill allows the stock exchange company, the public limited company, to identify its shareholders. The bill is an important element of the provisions on the establishment, distribution to the general meeting of the company, the preparation and publication of a remuneration report on the implementation of the remuneration policy of the company's directors, supervisory board members and the CEO. Dear House, An important element of the bill is the regulation required for the approval of material transactions with related parties and for the disclosure of information on such transactions. The bill also ensures that if the shareholder is not a small investor, but an institutional investor, asset manager, his investment strategy is known. Dear Parliament, The company law, capital markets and investment service providers' guarantee rules related to the harmonisation of the Directive have been included in a small amendment of the Civil Code, the Capital Markets Act and the Law on investment firms and commodity services and the rules for their activities. In view of bank refinancing practices, the bill addresses some of the problems encountered in the application of the law in the regulatory context of mortgage law. The law on the enforcement of penalties and the amendment to the law on infringements are intended to comply with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on procedural safeguards for children suspected or accused in criminal proceedings. Ladies and gentlemen, We were pleased to see that the amendment to the Electronic Communications Act received unanimous support during the debate on the bill. The proposed amendment serves two important objectives for the communications sector and users. On the one hand, we are fulfilling an EU obligation by transposing the so-called BEREC Regulation. The new regulation maximises the fee for electronic communications services from home to another Member State, such as telephone calls and text messages. However, on the basis of the EU provision, the service provider may request the National Communications Authority, under very strict conditions, to derogate from the maximum rates provided for. The bill sets out the rules of procedure for the application to the communication authority. On the other hand, the amendment allows persons in emergency situations or declared emergency situations to be alerted and informed by text messages. The amendment provides a legal basis for the operation of a technical system connected with a professional disaster management body by providers of mobile electronic communications services. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The government aims to improve the efficiency of consumer protection in cross-border matters with the consumer protection part of the bill, on the one hand, in order to increase consumer confidence and in the interests of fair businesses, and, on the other hand, to strengthen reconciliation bodies that offer a simple, quick, free solution to individual consumer disputes. As of 2020, a new EU Regulation sets out a framework for cooperation between Member States' consumer protection authorities. A stronger alert system will be established compared to the existing cooperation system, in which the relevant authority will notify EU and other Member States' co-organisations if it experiences an infringement that may affect consumers in several Member States. The Consumer Protection Authority's powers are strengthened in online trade, so that, if no other instrument results, it may order the removal of content from the relevant website in matters covered by the EU Regulation, ask the hosting service provider to remove, disable or restrict access to the online interface. [[17.40]] One leg of consumer protection, the Consumer Protection Authority, has already been strengthened, with clear results. The next step is to strengthen the other leg of consumer protection, i.e. to increase the effectiveness of conciliation bodies to resolve individual issues. The bodies shall continue to provide services available free of charge to any consumer in any county seat and in the capital city. The bill significantly simplifies the procedure for the selection of conciliatory panel members. The opaque and bureaucratic designation procedure applied to existing bodies for 20 years is replaced by a simpler and more transparent application procedure conducted by the competent regional chamber, the end of which will be decided by the Minister for Consumer Protection. Therefore, the members of the conciliation panel and the Presidents and, if necessary, the Vice-Presidents will be selected by the Minister for Consumer Protection from among the applicants under a single procedural order. The main purpose of the amendment is to establish a professional basis for the management of conciliation bodies. On the basis of the bill, a national conciliation procedure will be drawn up, which will be mandatory. For 20 years there has been a lack of uniform procedural and traineeships for all 20 bodies, leading to different decisions per county. In terms of the funding of reconciliation bodies, there may be disparities between the metropolitan and rural reconciliation bodies, with an operational risk in eight counties. With the amendment of the law, the financial imbalances that have arisen will be eliminated, and rural bodies will be strengthened. The bill also includes amendments to a number of transport-related laws. The main aim of the provisions is to fulfil our country's obligation to harmonise legislation. The amendment of the Aviation Act will also be a means of establishing a set of requirements that can respond innovatively to rapid changes in the EU legal environment in line with deregulation efforts. XLII 2000 on water transport. By way of amendment of law, following the associated appointment of a government decree, the examination necessary for obtaining shipping qualifications will be carried out by an exclusively state-owned organisation or by a non-profit organisation established by it. The main purpose of the amendment to the Rail Transport Act is to end the ongoing infringement procedure. The Law on Rail Transport currently in force is XCVIII of 2018 on the amendment of certain transport laws. Following its amendment by law, the directive largely complies with the requirements of the directive, but for some provisions it is essential to further clarify and supplement the current domestic legislation. Dear Parliament, In view of all of this, I would like to ask you to support the bill, and I would like to express my thanks to my fellow Members for their improved proposals on the issue of cooperation, as they were discussed in Parliament. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-06-24-224	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Decisions shall be taken at a later date. The Commission's reports on the revision of certain laws necessary for the restructuring of the institutional system and funding of the research, development and innovation system and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal now follow. The government referral is T/6359. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to László B. Nagy, rapporteur of the committee.
u2019-06-24-225	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 20 June 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/6359 amending certain laws necessary for the restructuring of the institutional system and funding of the R &amp; D and innovation system. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report were adopted by 24 votes to eight, with no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, Basic research at international level, targeted development and productive innovation are essential factors for a competitive economy. The conditions for this are an efficient institutional system and predictable, transparent funding based on a competitive tendering system. These organisational and structural processes encourage close and wide-ranging links and create effective cooperation between relevant actors, both for the purpose of basic research and the development of applied research and innovation in Hungary. The concentration of resources will help to reduce the current fragmentation of the system and increase its effectiveness. According to the bill before us, innovation and research funding will be unified in the future. The new funding structure supports excellence, research identified on the basis of societal challenges and promoting corporate innovation. Uniform management of the relevant public resources is ensured through the National Research, Development and Innovation Fund. The principles and methods for the use of resources and the definition of areas of science to be supported shall be decided by the National Science Policy Council to be established. With the adoption of the bill, the Eötvös Loránd Research Network will be established, which will contribute to the greater and more efficient utilisation of the core research results of the research institute network in Hungary. I must point out that the bill does not affect the public body status of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. The Eötvös Loránd Research Network constitutes a separate budget chapter in the Budget Act, not under the government's direction or control. The legal status of the research sites is therefore not affected by the amendment of the law. Their activities shall be determined by themselves within the framework of their awarded applications and contracts, as well as within the framework of their statutes. Ladies and gentlemen, To sum up, the development of a new organisational and financing model for the R &amp; D and innovation system will enable the focus of domestic R &amp; D activities, the more efficient use of R &amp; D and innovation resources, the strengthening of cooperation, and the integration of domestic research activities into the national and international innovation systems. Organisational and funding changes aimed at increasing resources and making better use of them will be in the interest of researchers and will help to make better use of results. So please support the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-06-24-226	Thank you, Congressman. I will now ask Minister László Palkovics to speak in this part of the debate. [[For signal:]] He says he doesn't want to speak yet. The designated Cultural Committee has not presented a rapporteur, so we now have representatives' contributions. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató.
u2019-06-24-227	Mr President, Dear House, The fact is that at this stage of the debate, it is certainly worth talking about two more things. One of the things that is normally part of this debate is that the Legislative Committee was kind enough to come to the aid of the government in its amendment, in which it essentially created a situation that makes the Academy completely vulnerable to the transformation of the research institute network. Because a temporary bridging rule has been included in the bill, which, in essence, means that until the Academy has a right of nomination, it does not accept this type of forced construction and until the Prime Minister accepts the Academy's proposal, the Prime Minister may appoint members to the governing board in his own power. In other words, let it be perfectly clear that from here on out, the minimum representation and protection that has so far fit the Academy, as you propose, will be lost. [[17.50]] Obviously, you are preparing to put your own ideas down the throat of the Academy, or, if not, with this type of Statical provision, to completely eliminate all kinds of, now not only custody, but also a voice for the Academy. I have to say that this is not surprising at all, knowing what the purpose of this bill is, namely the expansion of the academic research institute network, the introduction of government control and the exclusion of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences from the substantive decisions on the research institute network. Yet, the solution they found to this end is both revealing and shameful. On the other hand, we also have the wonderful opportunity, because Minister is very respectable in the debate, that he will also have the opportunity to respond in his closing words to how it is, that, by the way, as evidence of a leaked recording, he has previously claimed that the government does not intend to separate the research institute network from the Academy, that it is not intended to withdraw it from the administration of the Academy, but only wants it to function better and more effectively. However, this is exactly what the bill you tabled contains, which is exactly what you defended in the debate, and any compromise amendments that the opposition representatives tried not to hide, even proudly, to do in consultation with the Academy in order to make a compromise proposal in the interests of Hungarian science, which you swept down, destroyed, and you were not willing to discuss in substance in the Commission's work. How does he then consider himself professionally competent and humanly credible to deal with the affairs of Hungarian science? Dear House, I must say that this proposal was originally outrageous, unacceptable, harmful and catastrophic, but at the Commission stage you have managed to make this even worse, so it is not acceptable to the Democratic Coalition in detail or in its entirety. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-06-24-228	Thank you, Congressman. I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed. I will ask Minister László Palkovics to comment. [[Dr. László Palkovics says yes.]] It says yes. You have the floor in a ten-minute time frame.
u2019-06-24-229	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you for the opportunity to keep the closure of this bill here. After Mr Gergely Arató addressed me, I think it is appropriate to answer your questions. The transitional regulation was introduced because of one and only one reason: that if we fail to reach agreement within a certain period of time, the institutional network should not be out of control. So that's all he has in mind, nothing else; you didn't have any other cases, and no one wanted to do that. The second thing, and this may be more instructive, is the one-year debate to which we will end today. In this one-year debate, discussion, it really started in what the Academy announced on Idex. It's a special thing, but everyone's gonna sort it out in their head, how they're gonna handle cases. We really started this discussion with the Hungarian government having no intention of taking anything from the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. The Hungarian government had one intention, and the intention today is to make the Hungarian scientific life work better, to make the funding more transparent, to have a kind of accountability, as is otherwise stated in the European Charter of Innovation if you read it. That's what the discussion started about. That's what I was talking about at that meeting about a year ago. In the meantime, after we failed to reach an agreement on this, a number of things changed. Among other things, the form in which we think to operate the research institute network has changed. The government's main aim is to ensure that Hungary is able to deliver a leading R &amp; D and innovation performance at European level. We are working to increase Hungary's participation in the world's innovation map in accordance with our self-image, our ability. Unfortunately, since the proposal for a final vote was tabled, it has turned out that in this structure, which we have been operating over the past period, we would not be approaching our goals, but rather permanently moving away from it. The European Commission has recently published its report on Hungary's innovation performance, and this has shown that we are ranked 23rd in the comparison of the 28 Member States, which means we have even fallen lower than last year. So I think more than that about why we need to operate this system in a different way, you don't have to say it for a reason. Of course, you can ask for different studies, different feasibility cases, but these are the figures that show that Hungarian science, the Hungarian institutional network and in this way funding are not good enough for Hungary to be able to position itself in the field of research and innovation. In spite of repeated attempts, almost a decade of permanent backlog in the existing institutional system, we have failed to stop it and therefore have failed to reverse it. Experience has shown that indisputable delays cannot be reduced and cannot be introduced without substantial re-alignment of institutional and financing conditions. A new, modern operating framework is needed for good international practice, so that we can succeed in our common endeavour to strengthen Hungarian science and innovation. It is a task to create a background for Hungary to become more innovative and competitive, and to do so, it requires systemic transformations. New types of measures should be used to establish more Hungarian patents and inventions, research institutions and higher education institutions should not operate in isolation, but to establish mutually fruitful relations with economic and social actors both at home and in the international space. Domestic enterprises should be encouraged to engage in knowledge-based activities that generate higher added value than currently. Dear Parliament, In order to strengthen the Hungarian economy, the government supports significant developments and provides significant additional resources for Hungarian R &amp; D and innovation. As part of the economic protection action plan, next year's budget will increase the amount of R &amp; D and innovation by HUF 32 billion. This is 25 percent higher than in today's situation and compared to 2003, and we will continue this increase in the 2021 budget in the same way. Tax-paying citizens and businesses have a legitimate expectation that our resources will be used more efficiently and effectively. To this end, it is time to convert to uniform performance-based funding. The new structure adapted to the structure of the EU grant allocation structure can also improve the proportion of national and EU proposals submitted and won by researchers and research institutes. Dear Parliament, The second president, István Széchenyi, who opened the 1842 General Assembly of the Academy, called for us to trust in ourselves, to trust in our strength, but never to step on a level that is unprepared, and to manage with our strength more than ever. This is all the government's intention: we strive to manage more with one of our most important raw materials, Hungarian creativity, the knowledge of Hungarian scientists and professionals than we have done so far. We want to achieve this contrary to any celebrity, not by reducing the autonomy of the research institution network, but rather by increasing, because they will be directly under the supervision of the Parliament. The research network will be managed in two-thirds by a body of scientists, whose members take responsibility for quality in a accountable manner and in their own person. At last, the representatives of the economy will play a role in the decisions, thus bringing the domestic R &amp; D supply closer to real market needs and demand. A credible measurement of performance will be guaranteed by an international advisory body with internationally recognised authorities. On behalf of the Government, I call on the Honourable Parliament to support the bill and thus to create a more successful, more competitive R &amp; D and innovation system. Together, let us allow more resources to be used in more research, more inventions and more patents for the benefit of all Hungarians, but mostly for the benefit of excellent Hungarian researchers. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-24-230	Thank you, Minister. Decisions shall take place at our later meeting. Next up is the 2017 LIII on prevention and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. a consolidated debate on the draft law amending the law. The government referral is T/6597. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that, according to the adopted house rules, the opening speech and the closing speech will take a total of 15 minutes, 6 minutes for the legislative committee to speak, 3 minutes for the presentation of the minority opinion, 10-10 minutes for the speakers of the political groups, 3 minutes for the speech of the independent Member. I now give the floor to Mr Gábor Gion, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance, the author of the item on the agenda.
u2019-06-24-231	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, The new anti-money laundering law, which entered into force in June 2017, supplemented the information that providers need to have in order to identify their customers in order to strengthen the domestic anti-money laundering and terrorist financing rules and to ensure full consistency with the European Union and international standards. In the case of an existing customer base, an exceptionally long, two-year transitional period for the institutions concerned was provided by the Act to replace any missing data and declarations until 26 June 2019. [[18.00]] Dear Parliament, However, according to the press and other signals of the past period, credit institutions did not appear to be able to meet the deadline. This is confirmed by the fact that, according to the information provided by the Hungarian Banking Association, a noticeable percentage of customers will not be identified by the deadline of 26 June 2019. In view of the large number of stakeholders, the unpleasant consequences of default and the upcoming summer holidays, the bill extends until 31 October 2019 the deadline for replacing any missing data and declarations for existing customers. The proposal now introduces a new notification obligation for institutions specifically for effective implementation, whereby service providers will notify their customers concerned of the obligation to replace missing data, declarations and the extended deadline within three days of the date of entry into force of the extension. In this way, customers are also clearly aware of their duties. Honourable Members, In addition to what has been said, it is important to draw attention to the fact that efforts have been made to effectively prevent money laundering and terrorist financing worldwide, including in the European Union. In terms of international expectations, the full knowledge of customers, the implementation of new and strengthened customer due diligence measures and, over time, the implementation of the existing customer base is of paramount importance in the fight against money laundering, on the basis of EU directives and other international standards. Dear House, With the adoption of the bill, the providers and their clients still concerned will have the opportunity to replace the missing data and declarations as necessary, in the case of the existing customer base, to carry out appropriate customer due diligence measures in accordance with international requirements. The primary objective of these anti-money laundering measures is to make it difficult and, as far as possible, to prevent criminals from laundering money from economic crime and to protect the domestic financial system and the fair majority society more strongly than ever. I ask you to support and accept the proposals submitted. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-24-232	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented, with a total of 6 minutes. I give the floor to Congressman László B. Nagy.
u2019-06-24-233	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the LIII of 2017 on the prevention and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing was discussed at the Legislative Committee's meeting held today on 24 June 2019 in the context of a derogation from the House Rules of Decision. T/6597. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report were adopted unanimously by the Committee with 28 yeses. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal before us ensures that credit institutions are able to complete the necessary data reconciliation under the law, since the initial deadline of 26 June of this year was not expected to be met by the organisations, and it was therefore necessary to extend the deadline. At today's committee, the Legislative Committee, on its own amendment proposal, even pushed the date of the original submission to 31 October, and we hope that in response to the words of the Secretary of State before us, this will ensure that the summer before us will solve the problems of the population in this respect, that credit cards and other transfers will be operational during the summer holidays, not to mention the serious economic problems that will cause businesses to have if they cannot operate their accounts, which would, in particular, result in the payment of transfers, suppliers and wage payments. So I think it was no accident that the 100% support for the amending proposal was granted this morning, and I believe that the participants in the TAB also supported this TAB modification by a hundred percent. I call on Parliament to support this deadline amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-24-234	Thank you, Congressman. No minority opinion will be presented as it has not been formulated. We now have the Members' speeches, as I have said, 10-10 minutes for the factions, for the independent Members, if this were 3 minutes. Then I will give the floor first to Congressman Péter Ovádi, on behalf of Fidesz.
u2019-06-24-235	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The need for a proposal before us is clear to all, and this is demonstrated by the unanimous vote in the Legislative Committee. LIII of 2017 on prevention and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing The Commission notes that the Commission's decision to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. At the time of entry into force, the Act provided for a transitional period, which would have expired on 26 June, i.e. the day after tomorrow, to replace the missing data of the relevant customers. Citizens, the press and most of the bodies concerned have indicated that the deadline will not be sufficient to allow all customers to go through the necessary data reconciliations. On behalf of Fidesz-KDNP, the Chairman of the relevant Economic Committee called on the Banking Association to launch an immediate active information campaign on bank data reconciliation. Unfortunately, over the two years, most of the institutions have not taken the necessary steps to comply with their statutory obligations, so the government had to intervene in order to prevent the citizens to whom this would have been detrimental. If we didn't have this bill before us today, a lot of people would be unable to access the funds rightfully available in your account. On the basis of the government's proposal, the deadline for grace would have been changed to 31 August. In view of the summer period, experience, the pro-government representatives of the Legislative Committee submitted an amendment in order to enable the parties concerned to fully implement the legal obligations, thus setting the deadline 31 October 2019 in the proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I consider it necessary to note that, in order to ensure active information, the proposal requires the organisations covered by it to inform their clients within three days of the entry into force of this proposal, for whom the customer due diligence specified in Pmtv has not yet taken place at all or fully. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of what has been said, I would like to ask you to support the bill, like the meeting of the TAB. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-24-236	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian.
u2019-06-24-237	Mr President, Dear House, There are moments of grace in the Hungarian Parliament, since we have a proposal, although it seems technical, that most people are likely to be able to support in order to protect Hungarian customers and protect their interests, and I do not want to predict that everyone, but I think that, since it is about the ease of Hungarian people in the coming weeks and months, most of us will support this proposal even if, in principle, financial institutions have not been able to account for and fulfil a task on time. But while we are at it, allow me to say that if this government can favour financial institutions in this direction and, once again, not only to them, so your proposal is eligible, let us look at the areas in which the move from the other side could be expected. A few years ago, I introduced in the Hungarian Parliament a concept that has been called a social bank account for a long time, but instead we use the system of free banking, according to which all banking operations can be carried out in a zero-forint account until average payment, so I don't mean premium operations, not securities transactions, I mean typical transfers, I pay off the utility bills, I take on the type of payment. [[18.10]] In the light of today's third millennium of technical solutions, this is a very easy-to-reach state, and we find active examples in Western European countries, even in countries whose economies are significantly more advanced than ours, but the gap is not as big as we think at first. For example, account management fees simply do not arise above a certain level of income. In Hungary, a premium category is a zero-forint bank account. In essence, there is no such thing on the market close to average pay. So I would like to see the Hungarian banking system come up with a life-like, life-sounding solution that allows free banking up to an average payout. These institutions are moving, rolling people's deposits, money, not the primary source of their profits, so that small people can cut down on their average amounts in different percentages. Moreover, this government has benefited these institutions in many ways. Let's go through it. It allowed the banking sector special tax to be passed on in the way it was admitted by financial institutions. He allowed the transaction fee to pass on as a whole. There has now been a kind of intention of refining in this area, but for years he has allowed people to be burdened by the Hungarian legislator on the banks. Thirdly, we see that the madness called foreign exchange lending and similar financial vortexes are repeating themselves, and in an unregulated environment, they are making waves bigger than that, and the Quaestor scandal could easily be described here. Previously, the Baumag victims have experienced very difficult, not just moments, but years, and the following scandals will be expected if we do not intervene. So, in addition to supporting this package, I would expect the government to address Jobbik's proposal for free banking, up to average payment, to make a statement, to find professional organisations, to examine the conditions under which this can be carried over. After all, I see the margin behind the record profits of the banking system, so that it can be achieved. And in spite of all this, I ask you to break the pact with the EBRD, signed by the Government of Hungary with the EBRD, as the government has undertaken not to impose any additional burden on the banking system for the benefit of the victims. I would relieve the government of this promise, the circumstances, the climate changed to such an extent that the situation of the victims became so difficult that it was simply a necessity to intervene in the interests of the victims. I am now in favour of this with a deadline, but we need radical, in-depth and national changes here. If anyone puts that on Parliament's table, I'm sure they can count on my vote. Thank you for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-24-238	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató.
u2019-06-24-239	Mr President, Dear House, I do not want to disrupt this peaceful atmosphere in any way, so I would like to start by supporting this bill, and we will also support the legislative committee's proposal for a longer deadline. At the same time, I am forced to draw attention to two circumstances. One of the circumstances is that this situation was not unexpected at all. There is nothing at all about the fact that suddenly a week before the deadline, it turned out that the bank settlement was not progressing. Bank coordination is not progressing primarily because banks have not done much to achieve this. All of us who have a bank account in Hungary know that if the bank wants to force something from us, such as some kind of offer to them, it can make an extraordinary effort to contact us: telephone, e-mail, mail, barely knocking on the door at night. On the other hand, the banks are now clearly not very excited about this task, as it is only about an EU obligation and a Hungarian legal obligation. It doesn't seem to have crossed the threshold where banking management felt that it was worth investing some resources, money, working time in this matter. As a result, most of the banking customers were not properly informed and, in particular, were not informed in time, and we cannot say that the government would have been particularly helpful in this matter, since people did not receive adequate information from the government side. On a billboard full of giants, George Soros and I don't know who we're putting out a poster for Mr Juncker across the country, this was important to the government. It didn't fit into government propaganda, the few hundred billion forints that are wasted every year to inform banking customers accordingly. This is one of the things I wanted to draw attention to: this is not an emergency that has come up unexpectedly, but that neither the banks nor the government have done their homework, which has been known to them for two years, by the way. They have not made the necessary efforts, and it does not appear that this problem exists. The charade that was brought up last week was truly wonderful, that, after the Banking Federation had informed the government on several occasions that it had called for this deadline to be postponed, then Chancellor said that, if the banks asked for it even more, we might consider it; instead of simply submitting a bill without any particular circle of courtesy. The other thing I would like to draw the attention of this House is the wonderful argument that we have heard from the representatives of the Banking Association on this matter that they cannot fulfil this task because it would hinder the implementation of the great family protection measures of the family protection action plan. Do you know what this means, fellow Members? I just mentioned that banks are not social welfare institutions. I don't think that's what any of us think about them, and they're not particularly big friends of family politics. This means exactly what we drew attention to in the debate on the family protection action plan, that this family protection package is not primarily for the benefit of families, my fellow Members, but for the benefit of banks. This is not a package of subsidies, it is a package of lending, and you are giving state aid to this, which is why you were also in a debate with the European Commission. This package is primarily for banking interests, and now it seems that business is more important than the fulfilment of legal obligations, so it has become important for the banks, and of course they know what the words are, what the dishes are, to soften government hearts. Perhaps one more aspect is worth mentioning: that, of course, in the short term, we are solving the problem here, and we hope that, in the next period, the banks and the government will actually do their homework, and Hungary is risking an infringement procedure, which in this case is a risk worth taking, because it is indeed a case where otherwise innocent Hungarian banking customers do not deserve to be punished for the negligence of others. I would therefore suggest that the government inform Brussels, exceptionally, in a polite manner, of the reasons for this decision. We are obviously aware of those who are familiar with the Brussels rules of procedure that, in such a case, when it is a public interest to be appreciated, and not some kind of unexpected political idea that usually happens to you or is not of any business interest, the Brussels Commission or Commission officials are much more understanding and cooperative. In conclusion, I can say that there are problems here with this situation, there are different responsibilities in this case, but, of course, it is not possible to punish Hungarian citizens and banking customers because the banks did not perform this task, they did not provide adequate information and information. We can therefore support this proposal and recommend that the rest of the House adopt it and support it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-06-24-240	Thank you, Congressman. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see a candidate, so the consolidated debate is closed. I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State if you'd like to comment. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-06-24-241	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Members, First of all, thank you very much for your support for this amendment. I can assure you that the sole reason for this amendment is to protect banking clients and not to give credit to banks. If we wanted to give a discount to the banks, we would have changed the deadline a long time ago, and we would not have put pressure on credit institutions to identify as many of their clients as possible, which, by the way, there were visible signs here in the last few weeks. So this was specifically done to protect customers. With this deadline amendment, we are still in line with the directive of the European Union, so there is no need for consultation with the European Commission, no breach of any European Union legislation. With regard to other issues of banking regulation raised, we are constantly thinking about issues such as de-cash or other topics starting from the backlog of cash use, which we are very happy to discuss with everyone who has good ideas. [[18.20]] We will listen to it, but I think that this is not what the debate is about, and that is not what I would like to discuss. Thank you again for your support for the amendment. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-06-24-242	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. We now have post-scheduled speeches. First, I would like to give the floor to Mr Zsolt Nyitrai, Member of Parliament, on behalf of the citizens. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-24-243	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you for the word and the opportunity. Speaking after today's agenda, it is due to the fact that, although the Day of Citizens is on the 27th of June, the Hungarian vigilantes met last Saturday in Balatonföldvár, organized by the National Citizens' Association. The National Citizens' Association was founded in 1991, in 2021 they will be 30 years old, 30 years old. More than 60,000 vigilantes serve in our country, doing so voluntarily, to the detriment of their free time. All honest Hungarian citizens can be grateful for this, thanks and respect to the vigilantes and the National Civil Guard Association. Citizen's watch is at the forefront of crime prevention. It is thanks to the organization and its members that Hungary has now become the 15th safest country in the world. The Government of Hungary acknowledges the work of the vigilantes. We can also see this in the organization's budget support, as the National Citizens' Association receives more than HUF 1 billion in budget support. Dear Parliament, The vigilantes are on duty 9 million hours a year, which is an average of 150 hours of volunteer service per person; thanks and thanks for it. In recent years, on the side of the police and the military, the vigilantes have also taken part in the fight against illegal migration, and they have established their border control department. 2035 Civil Guard Associations serve in 3176 settlements. In one year, the number of young vigilantes increased by nearly 80 percent. The renewed equipment park also helps the civilian guard, 1007 service vehicles, 12,085 new bicycles, 128,3 bikes and 32,000 new visual vests. Their involvement has significantly reduced the number of registered crimes. Dear Parliament, Recently, László Kövér, President of the Parliament, received the delegation of the National Citizens' Association, where they jointly reviewed the tasks ahead. Dear Parliament, On the occasion of the upcoming National Citizen's Day, God bless all vigilantes! Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-06-24-244	Thank you, Congressman. Mr Rig Lajos came forward to speak after the next agenda: a report on health. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-24-245	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Allow this to be such an extraordinary speech, not as a opposition politician, but as a health worker who has spent more than 20 years in the health system, we will give an account of the past period, and we will see what awaits us in the coming days. If we want to compare the socialist government and the Fidesz government in the field of health, we have to say, unfortunately, that one had a stepchild and the other does not yet feel that this child is his. During the Socialist Government, there was a so-called operational privatisation, in which small hospitals were issued to KFTs, including Tapolca, say, Körmend, and we could buy, say, the hospital of Eger's city. One is MediSyst Kft. and the other is HospInvest Kft. That was the first dagger stab in this medical system. Then came the 2010 switch. The Fidesz government spent two years thinking about what to do with this health system, and in 2012 a Semmelweis plan placed 2.0 on the table. It has promoted small-town hospitals to a small-region hospital, which has been supported by economic considerations. But if we look at the present and now return to the present, we will see in the present that, according to the data on the website of the Hungarian State Treasury, the debt of hospitals has decreased in the past period, unfortunately we cannot say that it has decreased. These small hospitals have the same debt as they used to. Let's compare labour shortages, labour migration or vocational training, labour training here in Hungary under the socialists, and look at it under the Fidesz government. It can be said, and that is a great truth, that during the socialist government, labour migration was not so typical, because we were not yet a member of the Union, they did not look abroad, although they were tempted by higher earnings. Then came the Canaan, our doctors and nurses could go abroad. Unfortunately, I have to say, this trend has not stopped at the moment. In the last few weeks, I've been a part of a certificate division where O.K.D. nurses could take over their certificates. I have to say, unfortunately, 50 percent of them have asked for a europass certificate, which is the eloquent proof that they do not imagine their future in Hungary, but in Austria or, say, Germany. Let's take a look at the waiting list. He was a waitlist, yes, but I trust he won't be. I have to say, it's not a waiting list, it's called an unexpected list. Unfortunately, this is the cause of the fact that the public sector and the private sector, two health sectors with separation powers, are turning to the private sector, as more and more Hungarian patients are using the private care system. I have to say, unfortunately, today Hungary has established a supply system for the poor and the rich. The more expensive a private health care system and a diagnostic procedure are, the fewer people can use it in Hungary today. Let us look at it and allow me to tell a great truth told by a doctor here in the walls of this House. A physician of my appreciation and respect for internal medicine said that Lajos, until we say the diagnosis of the disease, we write it down, we don't tell you its symptoms, we can't prepare a treatment plan for it. This diagnosis of the health system, I think, is the most effective way for the hospital directors to do it. But what can a hospital director do, who has mostly fallen into a position of economic director in small hospitals, and who has already failed people in economic life who are making their statements politically impossible, since hospital directors know best what makes this health system worse and worse. I ask the political players in this sector to exempt these directors from this burden. Untie this shackles from the hospital directors, and let them tell us what the problem is with health care. I think this will be good for politics, good for health care, but most of all, it will be best for the people in it and for the patients. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-24-246	Thank you, Congressman. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát applied for a speech after the next agenda:. How much longer? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-24-247	Mr President, Dear House, I could also have given the address to the speech that what was left out of the budget, or to be more precise: those who have been left out of the budget, because we have been debating the facts of next year's budget for a long period of hours. I was there, in the middle of the debate, indicating that the reality of the event, during the Hungarian leap, came to face, because here a few hundred meters before the Curia, the foreign exchange loan was being damaged, waiting for the decision that they felt affected their fate to a great extent, and then, as a result of the decision, there was a great public upheaval here, and these people would expect a briefing, but mostly justice and justice. At the same time, Hungary's Government refused to express its own position on this issue despite our repeated calls in this debate. [[18.30]] We know this position in part, because this government has entered into a pact with the EBRD to which it has undertaken not to impose any additional burden on banks in Hungary in order to resolve the situation of the injured, but during the budgetary debate we have heard continuous reports of the dynamic growth of wages in Hungary, the well-being, the security of the members of the social groups more than previously. On the other hand, the situation and the reality is that over ten thousand evictions have taken place in Hungary over the last three years. My colleague, Andrea Varga-Damm, has not only prevented in the courtroom a lot of processes that could have ended in eviction, but she still receives the emergency signals every day that would allow opposition representatives to help these events, but we are not primarily the ones who have the powers by which Parliament's majority, well-managed legislative proposals in this jungle, could be put in order with a bush cutter. Because it's a jungle, where for reasons of overpowering executives, in the midst of a climate that this government has created, it's allowed to develop, there's a lot of excesses. This week we have received several alarms for similar events, Miklós Bereczki's best friend will obviously do what he can in order to bring these events back from the path of illegality to the path of legality. But the opportunities of a single opposition representative or even a better-looking member are very limited, but there we are, talking to those who are in trouble with whom we can. We also invite our pro-government fellow Members to see what they are up against and to see that, in the course of budgetary planning, it is not only numbers and barcodes, but also people behind them, and the picture of the whole family-friendly government, the year of the family and the various wordings will be reversal, even dissonant, from the fact that total social groups are left out of planning. Statistics, the world of numbers are stubborn. It can be forged, manipulated, but it has become accepted within Parliament that over ten thousand homes have been emptied in three years. We also have information on how many children were taken from his family because of the dubious claims they were seeking to collect on the family. Just as we've been to an eviction event that was initiated because one executive gang, competing with the other, wanted to collect the same claim completely on the family. We have also encountered a claim that has already been recovered, and a property can now be lost either as a fast loan of 400 thousand forints or as a free-use loan, from which, with penalty rates, in a climate determined by you, may legally become a multimillion-dollar debt, and then this event may culminate in eviction. I therefore call again not only for this Parliament to impose a moratorium on eviction until the problem is resolved, but also for a full review of the enforcement system. My former colleague, Mr Staudt Gábor, has put a whole package on the table, which gives legal, codificationally justified opportunity and opportunity to reduce all abuses related to implementation by this Parliament. Not only am I asking you, but I expect the pro-government representatives to respond to this package, to express their views, and, most importantly, to look the injured in the eye, because the debtor chamber and other organisations will start a three-day demonstration here in Kossuth Square from next week. You can meet these people on the next Monday in Parliament, it's a 200-meter walk. I urge all my fellow Members to come out to Parliament, to talk to these people, and, if we have the opportunity, to offer the widest possible assistance. They're not waiting for aid, they're not waiting for a lifeboat, they're waiting for justice, they're waiting for what was theirs, until this government lets them take it from them. Unfortunately, he allowed, in this way, this untenable situation on the side of the road still exists in a state of war [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Therefore, it must be changed, intervened immediately. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-24-248	Thank you, Congressman. After the last agenda, Mr Ander Balázs asked for a speech:, Do the Fidesz-KDNP support the proposals for amending the budget for the development of South Somogy? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-24-249	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, To answer the question quickly: it will not come as a big surprise to us, obviously they do not support these amendments. South and Internal Somogy is a forgotten, map wiped area for the ruling parties, and it should be noted that Hungarians live in the county south of Kaposvár, in the southern part of Somogyország, who want to stay in their homeland, but need central state help. Last week's budget debate was about politics, and I spoke out of the nation's day laborers for teachers who were underpaid servants of power, but now I would like to say a few sentences for the sake of my own constituency. There are many accusations from the pro-government benches that if we have an amending proposal in relation to the budget, then we do not have the other leg, we do not say where the resources that we would like to transfer to the areas we prefer could be taken from. Well, we have this other leg, and indeed we would take these funds from an elite figure of the luxury parasite belonging to the Nersevic caste: there it is, please, the project of the Budapest-Belgrád railway that never returns, for which about HUF 63 billion is intended next year, and then this whole madness will eventually cost the Hungarian taxpayers a thousand billion. This means that each Hungarian citizen, from an infant to an old man, will pay about HUF 100,000 to increase the bulk of this project by tens of billions, hundreds of billions, and Lőrinc, as well as its circles. We say that it could be taken away from this and that these resources could be redistributed, rather to projects that are profitable, profitable and truly value-making. Well, one of these would be the case of the Grandpa hospital. The hospital in Nagyatád is actually a sad symbol of the decline of our entire region: in 76 it was handed over to this then 702 beds healthcare facility with 800 employees, then in 2007, 2012, both the Balliberals and Fidesz closed down active beds here, and classes were closed. The focus is now more on hospice and geriatrics. I say that this is a sad symbol of the decline of the entire region, because it is an ageing region, and I have to say we have a feeling that the government wants to create a kind of shelter in Inner and South Somogy, but we will also have a word or two for that. According to the report of the Hungarian State Treasury in April, the hospital's debt is HUF 331 million, and in my amendment I proposed that we give the hospital HUF 500 million, because this underfunding, which is clear from the figures, makes it very difficult to operate, to acquire assets, to pay the suppliers, so it is very difficult to obtain funds and the CT case. By the way, I asked my fellow Member, László Szászfalvi of Fidesz-KDNP, to support this amendment, who was elected individually in the region, unfortunately did not support it. I wonder what the future fate of this proposal will be. The bath development in Nagyatád would also be a cardinal issue here in the region. [[18.40]] The thermal water used as a national spa, which is truly healing and magical, and the complex built around it deserve to be further developed, as a potential breakout point for Nagyatad could be health tourism, in the middle of the city, in the middle of a beautiful park. The third point is related to Barcs. We would like to transfer HUF 2 billion to the Fund for Conservation Compensation, as there is a long, long-standing story: the case of former residual areas not indemnified. It affects 2,000 hectares of land nationwide, and there is a situation, a curiosity, of which 1600 hectares are related to Barcs. There are more than a thousand families waiting for them to be paid and compensated, because the land managed by the Drava-Coop cooperative was actually expropriated by the state. This was not a big problem for us or for the members of the cooperative, but the big problem is that this land has not been paid for since then. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Duna-Drava National Park handles this, uses it, and hundreds of families, more than a thousand families are waiting for them to be paid in a decent way. I also asked my pro-government colleague to support this amendment, but unfortunately it did not happen. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-24-250	Thank you, Congressman. That is the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you all for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed.
