u2019-06-13-0	Good afternoon. Dear Parliament, The 20th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that Mr Attila Móring and Mr György Szilágyi will be taking part in the meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law on the publication of an investment protection agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Singapore, of the other part, will follow. The government referral is T/6344. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, the author of the item on the agenda. Mr. Secretary, please.
u2019-06-13-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before you adds a new element to the legislative framework for the development of economic relations between Hungary as a Member State of the European Union and the Republic of Singapore. The aim of the agreement to be announced is to promote economic relations between the Member States of the European Union and Singapore, including investment relations, by making the investment environment safer, more attractive and attractive. The agreement therefore serves the protection and legal certainty of Hungarian investors established or intending to settle in the Republic of Singapore from a Hungarian perspective. This agreement also plays an important role in the field of investment promotion, helping Singaporen companies to bring their investments into Hungary that create jobs. Singapore is an important player not only for the European Union but also for Hungary's external economic strategy. It's not for nothing. The Singapore economy is particularly advanced from a technological, technical point of view. We know that today the dogma that had previously been said to flow capital in the world economy is basically from the west to the east in order to find cheap labour. Today, the situation seems to be at least two-way. Large Eastern and Far Eastern companies are at least as driven by the pace of the transformation of the world economy as Western European countries and Western European companies. On a number of technological issues, it is important to recognise that Far Eastern companies are ahead of their European competitors and that many Eastern companies offer solutions that clearly make the country and the economy of the country where these companies invest and invest. Moreover, the Hungarian economy is now in a state of dimensional change, where the number of jobs created is not really the number, but rather the technological quality, added value and research and development ratio represented by them. So I could also say that the Hungarian economy is moving from its quantitative era to its qualitative era, when the key figure of this transition is the technology that large or large western companies can bring to Hungary. To sum up, both Hungary and the European Union have the interest of bringing investment to Central Europe, including Hungary, by more Singapore companies offering modern technology solutions. For foreign and Hungarian investors, the Hungarian economic environment has proved to be particularly competitive and the investment environment has proved attractive. We offer Europe's lowest tax rates, here the single-key 9 percent corporate tax plays a strategic role, as the low corporate tax burden allows corporate resources to be used to fill jobs with high added value and, therefore, higher skills and, therefore, higher wages. This is also apparent in Hungary from the fact that net wages increased by 70 per cent on average over nine years, and in the last year we have seen an average salary increase of 8.5 per cent, together with an average salary increase of 40 per cent in the jobs created by the investment promotion agency to Hungary. Thus, while the average salary for large investments in Hungary in 2017 was HUF 300 thousand, in 2018 it was HUF 420 thousand, and that 40 percent increase was clearly due to the fact that we also changed our investment promotion strategy to prioritize high value-added investments with a high rate of research and development, and to give greater support to the jobs created by them. So the result was that every year in the last five years we broke the national economic history record in terms of Hungarian investment promotion; in the last year 98 large investments had already arrived in Hungary, and they totalled HUF 138 billion in investment. I would also like to inform you that, as a result of this investment protection agreement, the EU's economic presence in the very fast growing South East Asian region is increasing, given that this investment protection agreement is the first one that the European Union can conclude in this region. This is also important because it can be a pioneer, it can open the way to other countries of ASEAN, which is very important to us, in the Southeast Asian region, in order to negotiate new investment protection agreements. At present, the European Union is also conducting such discussions with Malaysia, Vietnam, Thailand, the Philippines and Indonesia, but I must be honest with you, ladies and gentlemen, that we are dissatisfied with the speed of these negotiations. We find it unacceptable that the negotiation process of certain free trade agreements and investment protection agreements may take up to ten years. Today, things are changing much faster in the world economy than to reach ten years of negotiations on some of these agreements, so that is why we always urge and encourage European Union officials to do so, that we may not have to wait six months to request approval from the Council of Ministers with responsibility for the signing of a negotiated draft agreement. That's probably, at least in a reasonable way, something that could be done faster than that. [[9.10]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, One of the main purposes of the agreement is to provide legal guarantee elements for investors from the European Union and from Singapore to protect their investments. This is also important for us because several Hungarian investors are already present in Singapore and several Hungarian companies are considering this possibility. Therefore, the greatest importance of this agreement for us is that it describes the conditions under which disputes are settled fairly and impartially, so that Hungarian and otherwise European investors and their investments can expect international legal protection when resolving any disputes. Overall, there are four chapters and eleven annexes to this agreement, and I would like to briefly highlight some of the elements that are essential for the protection of investment. First of all, it is very important that the investor and the investment be entitled to the guarantee protection described in this contract from the date of establishment in the partner country, i.e. from that moment on. The main guarantee elements are the cornerstones of the new orientation of the EU's investment protection agreements. Firstly, fair and equitable treatment standards and anti-discrimination provisions. The second is rules on direct and indirect expropriation. The third is the permanent first instance investment court and appeal forum, consisting of members appointed by the parties. Let me stop here for a second. You may recall that we have also argued a lot between the walls of this House on the extent to which international arbitration can be brought into line with national law, national law and, in particular, national interests. There was an opposition opinion with which I even agreed, which described this method of arbitration as some kind of offshore jurisdiction. We, for our part, have greatly inspired the process of thinking in the European Union about how this could be overcome, and one of its impressions is already published in this investment protection agreement, when a permanent first instance court is established, with a truly existing structure and real members, and this will be a second-degree appeal forum from now on. Then, also, the guarantee elements include strict compliance with the independence of the arbitration panel, as integrity and ethical conduct are ensured by the binding code of conduct contained in the agreement. The publication of documents and hearings accessible to the public also guarantees transparency of procedures. In addition, the agreement contains an article on guaranteeing the right to regulation, which means that States Parties do not lose their right at all to legislate on issues of environmental protection, public health or other specific national competence. Referring back to the problem of arbitration, this agreement already includes the commitment of a so-called multilateral investment court to set up a MIC in English. Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Between Hungary and Singapore, trade traffic increased 7 percent last year, over $640 million, Hungarian exports increased by 11 percent, mainly as a result of the export of electric machines, energy development machines and news technology. In order to allow Hungarian economic operators to benefit from the more secure environments arising from this investment protection agreement, we opened a EUR 1.7 billion credit line at Eximbank to finance Hungarian-Singapore business relations. Therefore, if a source of financing is needed for the export-import transaction, the establishment of a joint venture or the joint presence of Hungarian and Singaporen companies on a third market, this should not be an obstacle to the further extensive growth of the Hungarian economy. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, We therefore expect this investment protection agreement to further support economic, commercial and investment relations between the European Union and Singapore by protecting investors, including Hungary and the Republic of Singapore. Thank you very much for your attention, and I ask, Mr President, the Parliament to support this proposal and to contribute to the announcement of this investment protection agreement. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-13-2	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr István Happy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2019-06-13-3	Mr President, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, The European Union and Singapore are key trading partners. Within the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, Singapore is the European Union's most important trading partner. Since 2006, trade turnover has increased by 30 percent, exceeding USD 82 billion in 2017. Trade in services also increased by 50 percent between 2011 and 2017. Investment relations are also strong. The largest investor of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations is the European Union, including more than half of the investments in Singapore, and more than ten thousand EU companies are active in Singapore. These figures show how deep the trade relations between the Union and Singapore are. The aim of the agreement before us is to strengthen economic and commercial relations, taking into account environmental protection and internationally recognised rules. This agreement also defines a number of concepts such as investment, business, legal person or, for example, Union legal entity. The scope of the Agreement, its elements concerning the parties' regulatory rights and the principle of national and maximum preferential treatment are also laid down. It describes in detail the steps taken in relation to investors' investment disputes, the principles to be applied at that time and the rules for expropriation. This agreement also includes the way in which disputes between States are resolved, the steps to be taken in such cases. Ladies and gentlemen, The agreement provides the opportunity for the Union to promote investment activities in each other's territories, creating a broad legal framework. I ask with respect for the support of this House. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-13-4	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ms Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, lead speaker of Jobbik, is the next speaker. Here you go. [[9.20]]
u2019-06-13-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, T/6344. Legislative bill No 3 on the publication of an investment protection agreement between the Member States of the European Union and the Republic of Singapore. The economic and social development of Singapore can be exemplary for all countries. As Singapore itself decimated society with slums, diseases, and hygiene conditions a hundred years ago, we can now report that it is one of the fastest developing city states in the world, the Asian center of economic life, and an extremely well-living city next to it. The European Union seeks to conclude bilateral agreements with the world's developed countries that help European Union companies to be stable in developing blood circulation in the world. Today, we can say that the development of Asia has taken a measure that unfortunately the European countries are only looking at. In Asia, conventions have been undressed, trying to find new solutions in everything, and they strive to ensure that societies do not lose their culture and their relationship to their tradition in the course of economic and technological development. Agreements concluded by the European Union with third countries should be ratified by all Member States of the Union. This is how this bill is now being negotiated and is likely to be voted in favour. The agreement expresses the desire of the parties to strengthen their relations, to ensure that their companies find a safe environment and predictability in the other area. The agreement also expresses the desire to strengthen their economic, commercial and investment relations in the economic, social and environmental dimensions with the objective of sustainable development. Hungary has a strong interest in bringing businesses to the territory of the European Union from fast-growing countries such as Singapore, and Europe can also benefit from the development that characterizes Asia. Today, Europe and the European economy are still important, counting on the world's advanced and developing areas, so we need to seize the links that ensure that we do not fall behind. However, I would like to draw attention to the chapter entitled "Expropriation" of Article 2.6 of the Convention. I am doing this because, under this Convention, Singapore or any country that has an investment protection agreement with the European Union or with Hungary can be sure that the state does not acquire the assets produced here in such a way that it is offensive to them. Guaranteed rules guarantee this. Compared to this, Hungarian citizens are second-rate in their own country, because according to Hungarian rules, the property of anyone in Hungary can be expropriated by the state, and in the event that they consider it to be a priority from an economic point of view, the person concerned cannot say anything about it. It would be good for the government to consider continuing this activity, to consider Hungarian citizens as second-rate citizens in their own country, in violation of the principle of equal treatment contained in the Fundamental Law. Therefore, the Hungarian government has created a situation for Hungarian citizens that, if they have assets in Hungary, if a company operating in the territory of a country protected by an investment protection agreement acquires assets in Hungary, they will be exempt from the obligation of expropriation without guarantee, but if, as a Hungarian citizen, it will have assets in Hungary, nothing will protect it from being taken away from it at any time by the government. This investment protection bill and its text are identical to the agreements concluded by the European Union with third countries in order to protect investment. Several similar investment protection agreements have been ratified in the Hungarian Parliament in recent years. Jobbik, of course, supports the vote on this bill and the fact that the European Union and its Member States will indeed benefit economically and socially from such an agreement. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-13-6	Thank you very much. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It would open up to two-minute speeches, but no one has applied for them, and no one has pressed a button for a normal speech. As no further contributions were made, the general debate is closed. I would like to ask Minister if he wishes to reflect on what has been said. [[Péter Szijjártó: No, thank you.]] It says no. I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, A general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Cape Verde on the draft law on the promotion and mutual protection of investments will follow. The government referral is T/6346. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I now give the floor to Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Minister.
u2019-06-13-7	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The second bill, which I wish to present to you today, also adds a new element to the legislative framework for the development of economic relations between Hungary and the Republic of Cape Verde. The aim of this agreement to be announced is to promote bilateral economic relations, including investment relations, and to make investment opportunities and environments safer, more attractive and more attractive in each other's countries. The importance of the agreement from a Hungarian point of view is therefore to ensure that companies wishing to invest in the Republic of Cape Verde themselves and their investments are subject to the highest degree of contractual protection. One of the objectives of the Hungarian Government's external economic strategy is to encourage and facilitate foreign investments by Hungarian companies in order to help increase production capacities in Hungary through foreign investments, and to provide resources for new developments, creating new jobs and improving the technological quality of existing jobs. Investment protection agreements are necessary for the implementation of this strategy, given that, in addition to the sources of financing and lending provided by the government, these agreements constitute legal guarantees and legal security for investments. Since the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty in 2009, the protection of foreign direct investment has been part of common policies within the European Union. This means that the Member States of the European Union can enter into an investment protection agreement with third countries only if the European Commission itself has, of course, given the necessary domestic authorisation, given its approval. As regards the investment protection agreement between Hungary and the Republic of Cape Verde, of course, this happened, after which the investment protection agreement was signed in Praia at the end of March of this year, which fully complies with the relevant EU rules and regulations, and, as I said, has the European Union's approval. Here too, similarly to the agreement under the previous item on the agenda, the main purpose of this Treaty is to include the legal guarantee elements that provide legal certainty in investment and investment in each other's countries. Several Hungarian companies negotiate and prepare for investments in Cape Verde. It is obviously essential for investors to have the guarantee elements for a fair and impartial settlement of any economic disputes that may arise. As a result of this agreement, Hungarian investors and their investments can therefore expect international legal protection in resolving any disputes that may arise. This investment protection agreement consists of a total of 16 articles and fully meets the substantive and formal requirements of international standards. Allow me to draw attention to a few points separately. Similarly to the agreement concluded between the European Union and Singapore, in this case, both the investor and the investment are effectively protected from establishment by the legal guarantees provided for in the contract. I would like to highlight the four main guarantee elements. Firstly, investors and their investments will be protected from discrimination, provided with the highest benefit and the application of the principle of national treatment. [[9.30]] Their protection has been guaranteed against expropriation carried out beyond public policy objectives and inadequately compensated, as well as unfair and unfair treatment. In addition, this agreement also covers the protection of the possibility of capital transfers. The investment protection agreements are thus also a way of resolving disputes between the investor and the State. The issue of arbitration has already been discussed on the previous item. I would like to draw my fellow Members' attention to the fact that this bilateral agreement contains the former dispute resolution mechanism, the only reason for which is that the new mechanism, which is the result of arbitration, has not yet been fully recovered from its physical, structural and personal aspects. But of course, as soon as the new dispute resolution mechanism is established, this provision will be repealed or changed for our bilateral investment protection relations and investment protection agreements. I would like to tell you that Hungary launched the southern opening strategy four years ago because we see that the potential for growth in Africa makes the African continent a continent of the future, so it is important that, in the Hungarian foreign economic endeavours, we help the African companies, whether they are exports or investment. Of course, we need to know that we did not recognise this opportunity alone, and the countries of the world with a much stronger economy have put this strategy on their flag. Many large countries are making amazing investments on the African continent, so we must be well focused, given that our resources and capacities are not competitive with the world's strongest economies. Therefore, in some designated countries, in some well-defined industries, we have the chance to succeed in addition to the great competitors. The Republic of Cape Verde is one of the countries that we have designated in our strategy. It is a Christian country with which we have a particularly good political relationship. At present, we judge and approach a significant part or almost all of the dilemmas facing world politics in the same way, which obviously also helps to build economic relations, which is probably already the impression that last year our trade traffic has increased fourfold. In order not to create financing problems for Hungarian companies in cooperation with companies in the Republic of Cape Verde, we opened a EUR 13 million credit line at Eximbank to carry out export-import transactions, to finance a joint appearance on the third market and to set up joint ventures. In addition, in parallel with the investment protection agreement, in March we signed an agreement on the launch of a tied aid loan scheme in Praia, worth EUR 35 million. The EUR 35 million programme offers Hungarian companies the opportunity to invest in water management and irrigation. These are two areas where Hungarian technology is particularly competitive, and it is no coincidence that Hungarian water management investments are still taking place or are being completed in the framework of tied aid loans in Indonesia, Laos, Sri Lanka, Kosovo. Negotiations on the credit agreement are already under way and trade agreements will be possible once they are concluded. We therefore expect, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that, with the help of this agreement, as well as the eximbank credit line and tied aid loan programme, Hungarian companies will be able to be competitive on the market in Cape Verde, thereby contributing to maintaining an extensive growth of the Hungarian economy. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-06-13-8	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman István Happy, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2019-06-13-9	Mr President, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Over the past years, the continent of Africa has been getting more and more attention. As Péter Szijjártó, Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade recently said, Africa is the continent of the future, which has already been noticed and strongly represented by the most powerful states in the world economy. It is therefore important for Hungary to build good relations with as many African countries as possible willing to cooperate. We now have an agreement establishing such cooperation on our table. The aim of the Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Cape Verde on the promotion and mutual protection of investments is to develop and promote economic relations between the two countries, and, in particular, to encourage investment by making the conditions for investment activities in each other's territory more favourable. The investment protection agreement between the two countries signed on 28 March sets out, among other things, some important concepts, such as investment or investment. It shall include, inter alia, ensuring fair and equitable treatment and protection of investments made by the other Party in its territory. The agreement also concerns in detail the rules on compensation for losses, the provisions on transfers and the correct and impartial way to resolve investment disputes. The agreement is capable of creating favourable conditions for both Contracting Parties to promote business initiatives in line with health, safety, environmental protection and internationally recognised standards. I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-13-10	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Potocskanya Kőrösi, the lead speaker of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2019-06-13-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/6346. Legislative bill No. 1 concerns the publication of an investment protection agreement between Hungary and the Republic of Cape Verde. In recent years, the Hungarian Prime Minister himself has shown a keen interest in the Republic of Cape Verde, which is located in only 4,000 square kilometres on the basis of a combined area of many islands, with a total population of only 500 thousand people. We have received numerous explanations as to why this country was targeted by the Prime Minister, because the objective cross-section of the country does not guarantee an amount of investment opportunities that would be in Hungary's interest. Of course, we have ideas on how to make foreign investments with illegally acquired assets in Hungary. But, of course, we welcome all international relations that bring benefits to our country. The Republic of Cape Verde is a Christian country and has a strong European attachment because of its colonial relationship with Portugal, and is also a highly developed African country with regard to democracy. This proposal, as an investment protection agreement, has quite the same content as those with Hungary's partners. With this agreement, the parties have granted each other national and maximum preferential treatment. In the future, we will continue to monitor economic, political and social relations with this country in Hungary. After Jobbik, for its part, sees a positive vision in all international relations and also sees a system of relations that suits the interests of our country, it will vote in favour of ratifying this agreement. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-13-12	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No one's applied for a two-minute speech. As a representative requesting a normal word, Mr Béla Turi-Kovács, representative of Fidesz, may speak now. Here you go.
u2019-06-13-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It has become almost customary in this House that, in the event of the negotiation of international treaties, it is not customary to go beyond the speaker's speeches. I'm making an exception today. There's a reason. My position is that there is something going on, and within the press there was a kind of attack on the Hungarian State Department and the politics of the Hungarian Ministry of Foreign Affairs that needs to be reflected. In my view, one of the greatest achievements of the last ten years is that Hungary has become open to the whole world and has become more, not only known, but recognised in the world. [[9.40]] This is a huge breakthrough, and I think it's important to think about it once, that our country disappeared from the map after 1541. After 1648, after the peace in Venezia, everything happened as if Hungary didn't exist, and this was the case all along, until 1920, except for an experiment in 1848 that couldn't be successful, because Europe was not known, it didn't know about us, it didn't want to know about us. Therefore, I consider it a huge breakthrough that the foreign policy and external economic policy of the Hungarian government, the Hungarian government, are now covering almost all parts of the world. It can't be different. A small country like us, or let us say that a medium-sized European country, can only succeed if its relationship system is as broad as possible and the most well-founded. Hungary continued this foreign policy by having a large group, the European Union, of 500 million, and even more so. We did not see this background as a hunch, but as a help, and I must say that within this, we have tried to break out our sovereignty. At a time when we are here, in this truly small country, but in Africa and Africa, in a potential place where there is still a strong Catholic Christian community, we can set foot on such a treaty, I consider it an important fact. This cannot be seen as news, not simply criticism, but ridicule. My conviction, which is why I asked for the floor, is that when a person mocks such things as the kind of experiment of the nation that wants to make the Hungarians known and recognized, I think that he does not think about where he lives, whether he is a Hungarian person; we really want to serve the Hungarian nation in a united manner. These are very serious questions. And when I am talking about this, Mr House, I must also say that it is also clear that the Hungarian Government sees me as convinced that, while the African issue is indeed a potential threat to Europe because of immigration, it is also an opportunity: the opportunity to use this potential threat for our own benefit in the coming time. This is what I believe policy must be led to. In some way, I have to say that it should be seen as a sign that we are discussing today, once in Asia, a contract with a really strong city state and then, in Africa, a small island country of between 300 and 500 thousand inhabitants. The treaties, therefore, I believe, will help the Hungarian outlook. In this direction, Hungarian foreign policy and foreign economic policy must be pursued, because my position is that the world in which we are living is the world of uncertainty, the world to which we are going is a world of unpredictable. The more hands-on we have, the more strong and secure we have, the more certain it is that Hungary can stay on a course of development, and stay on a course of growth. I think that only success can be wished. These contracts should be supported.
u2019-06-13-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congresswoman Ágnes Vadai, representative of DK, asked for a two-minute speech.
u2019-06-13-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would not have spoken to the international convention, as it is common practice that international conventions serving Hungary's national interests are voted in this House regardless of party standing. Nevertheless, my fellow Member Béla Turi-Kovács's speech moved me to say a few sentences on the matter of national interest. I would like to say to the Member that there are many of us in this House, many of us, we think a lot about government foreign policy, government policy, and we do not agree on everything. If there were a Member who would not vote in favour of this international agreement, I would not think that it was against the Hungarian national interest. I would be careful with these terms, because there are also other international conventions here, where there may be debates, or even, in general, legislative proposals, which are submitted by the government and where there is not always agreement. I think that from what has been said so far, it is clear and visible that the opposition parties who are here will therefore support the international conventions that have been negotiated so far. This does not mean, of course, that we agree with the government's foreign policy, but we agree with the measures that serve Hungary and, of course, the European Union. So I would like to ask the Member to take care in these matters of who is in the national interest and who is not. There can and always will be, there will always be political debates between the opposition and the government, but let us not argue that we would not really do that, and I would certainly not think that those Members and politicians who are trying to serve the Hungarian nation in some way represent the national interest, but in a specific way, on their own path. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-13-16	Thank you very much. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP, in two minutes.
u2019-06-13-17	Thank you very much. Mr President, Using this debate, it might also be worth clarifying that, when this trip was completed, the Prime Minister wanted to meet with a more detailed round, as he wanted to go to Angola. If we have the possibility that the Minister is among us, then perhaps he could answer why this trip was so successful that only the Prime Minister could visit Cape Verde and why this is the only element of the journey left. At that time various press guesses appeared that they did not wish to receive the Hungarian Prime Minister in Angola. Speaking of international cooperation, aid and investment protection in Parliament today, it may also be worth discussing with whom, why, how and why the Hungarian government cannot cooperate. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai applauds.]]
u2019-06-13-18	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I will ask Minister Szijjártó, as rapporteur, if he wishes to reflect. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, please.
u2019-06-13-19	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for your support for both investment protection agreements. They serve Hungarian national economy interests. Of course, in this Parliament, we have never debated or disputed the fact that they are acting to achieve and promote national interests. However, I remember the times when, during the transformation of the Hungarian foreign policy strategy, a number of people questioned whether it was right to put economic goals in the focus of the foreign policy strategy. I think that there is no need for a debate in this case, because the numbers speak for themselves. Since it is not the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the institution that I can now run, that is, every year since 2014, we have broken the current investment record and the export record. Today we have reached 85.6% of our exports and GDP; we have reached the point that we have the 92nd largest population in the world, but we have the 34th largest export performance; and we have reached the point that foreign direct capital investment per capita has gone above EUR 8500 in Hungary. And we have come to the point that in terms of the ratio between foreign direct capital inflows and the performance of the national economy, FDI/GDP is the first place in this region. We got there in 2017, and then we kept this in 2018, that the value of Hungarian exports exceeded EUR 100 billion, and we are talking about a country of barely ten million. The production of 100 billion euros of exports in a economy of this size is an exceptional achievement. It would not be enough to produce these products and services in Hungary if they did not have a market for them abroad. Therefore, the Hungarian foreign policy strategy continues to focus on export promotion, export development, and the same focus remains on stimulating investment in Hungary. And as for the matter of Deputy Group Leader, I wouldn't want to leave this open. [[9.50]] The Angolan visit was planned according to schedule. I myself was there just a week before the intended Prime Minister's journey in Angola, and I conducted the necessary consultations with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the various public authorities. After that, the disorganization of the internal political calendar and the unexpected events in which the Angolan party asked for a delay. This was also made public at the time, but of course I was happy to repeat it here, so that there would be no question hanging in the air. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-13-20	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law on the publication of the Protocol on the accession of the Republic of North Macedonia to the North Atlantic Treaty will follow. The government referral is T/5886. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. For the first and third time today, I give the floor to Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade Péter Szijjártó. Here you go.
u2019-06-13-21	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of this bill, which I have just tabled, is to publish the Protocol on the accession of the Republic of North Macedonia to the North Atlantic Treaty. The North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, NATO, decided at its summit held in Brussels on 11 July last year that the Republic of North Macedonia was invited to open negotiations on accession to the North Atlantic Treaty. I would like to add in brackets that we have been calling for this since 2010. We are pleased that this invitation took place after eight years. The accession negotiations were successfully concluded in November of last year, and then NATO's current members prepared a separate Protocol of Accession for Northern Macedonia in accordance with the practices and procedures established in the Alliance, and this Accession Protocol contains a consensus decision by the current Member States on the inclusion of the Republic of North Macedonia. The procedure is based on Article 10 of the North Atlantic Treaty, which provides that:. The Parties may, by unanimous agreement, invite any other European State capable of promoting the further development of the principles of the Treaty and contributing to the security of the North Atlantic region. Each State invited as such may become party to the Treaty by depositing its instrument of accession with the Government of the United States of America. The Government of the United States of America shall notify each party of the conclusion of each instrument of accession. Hungary has always been one of the enlargement countries, both in NATO and in the European Union. And when we think about enlargement, we need to remember primarily the Western Balkans region, or our Southern-South-East neighbourhood. The Western Balkan countries also serve Hungary's national security and national economy interests in support of European and Euroatlantic integration efforts. Of course, we are more sensitive than our Western European friends on the issue of integration in the Western Balkans. This probably comes from close proximity, from the neighbourhood, because we Hungarians know exactly the difference between calm, peace and security in the Western Balkans and when this does not come as a gift. Unfortunately, the process of integration in the European Union is moving extremely slowly. The General Affairs Council will be held in Brussels on Tuesday, where unfortunately we cannot expect much good for the start of accession negotiations with Albania or Northern Macedonia. However, of course, on behalf of the Hungarian Government, I will argue for the immediate start of accession negotiations with the North Macedonians and Albanians next Tuesday. NATO is making better progress, as Montenegro has now been able to join NATO. I note in brackets that we have also been calling for it since 2010, and it is now possible that, when the ratification process is completed, the Republic of North Macedonia will also be a member of NATO. The main reason why this has not happened so far was the name dispute between Greece and the Republic of Macedonia at the time. We have always urged that, while respecting the sovereignty and sensitivity of the Greeks on this subject, they do not block the opening of accession negotiations, but try to reach an agreement in parallel with the accession negotiations, and if this does not succeed, at the end of the accession negotiations, all countries still have the veto, i.e. the ratification delay or the ratification has not taken place. Our Greek friends took the opposite decision and maintained their veto against the opening of accession negotiations until an agreement was reached in the so-called so-called name dispute, following the so-called Prespai agreement, Greece and the Republic of North Macedonia were able to resolve the long-standing conflict in this. Of course, by not interfering with the internal processes of any country, we did not wish to give an opinion on this, leaving this to the northern Macedonians and the Greeks to see if this is okay, and they will obviously account for it to their own voters. Mutual respect, I consider this important for the foreign policy strategy. We do not comment on the internal affairs of other countries; I think that we rightly expect others to do so, even if this sometimes seems like a naive illusion. Ladies and gentlemen, Following the Prespai agreement and its implementation, the Protocol on the accession of the Republic of North Macedonia to the North Atlantic Treaty was finally signed on 6 February this year, and as a result the process of ratification of the Protocol could begin in NATO Member States. A total of 13 countries have ratified this Protocol of Accession in addition to Greece, i.e. after the Greeks, the parliaments of Albania, Belgium, Bulgaria, Denmark, Croatia, Poland, Latvia, Lithuania, Montenegro, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia and Slovenia have already decided to ratify it, and if everything can proceed in line with the planned timetable and national announcements, it will be expected by spring 2020 that the North Macedonians will be full members of NATO. Following confirmation by all Member States, the NATO Secretary-General invites the candidate state in the form of a letter, i.e. North Macedonia for accession to NATO, and the instrument of ratification of the Protocol will then be deposited with the Government of the State of the depositary, the United States of America, thereby becoming a full member of NATO. So, ladies and gentlemen, according to our assessment, NATO enlargement with the Republic of North Macedonia is a significant milestone in strengthening the security of the Euroatlantic region. As neighbours to the Western Balkans, we are particularly interested in the stability of the Western Balkan countries, including Northern Macedonia, which we support in many ways, since our national expert, the national expert from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is working alongside the Northern Macedonian Government, who is helping to prepare for the opening of accession negotiations in the European Union, and its work is a broad recognition. [[10.00]] In addition, in order to protect the southern border of Northern Macedonia, a Hungarian police contingent of 30 people is currently working, and according to the agreement of our Ministrys of Interior and Home Affairs, this will continue as long as migration pressure is maintained in the Western Balkans. So we also provide a number of support on a bilateral basis to preserve the stability and speed up integration processes of the Republic of North Macedonia. I believe that the realisation of NATO membership of the North Macedonians also serves Hungary's foreign policy, security policy and external economic interests, and is yet another tangible proof of our commitment to the integration of the Western Balkans. I think that this is a positive and encouraging message for all the countries in the Western Balkans that it is worth maintaining integration policies, that is the right way forward, especially when there are serious security threats and risks surrounding the region. Let me tell you this: when we get together with the European Union Foreign Ministers and talk about the Western Balkans, many people generally describe in a voice of complaint the external influences in the Western Balkans, and here they list the unfriendly factors. At the same time, we must see that nothing prevents us from taking on this competition, we should only take action then, we should speed up integration processes, and I think that NATO is definitely ahead of the European Union in this respect. NATO membership of the North Macedonians is also important in the fight against terrorism and in the fight against illegal migration processes. Let us not forget that the international coalition created to defeat the Islamic State, of which Hungary is also a member, in accordance with a consensus, more precisely majority, two-thirds parliamentary decision, even soldiers will be sent to this international force, and at present 164 of them have been successful in operations against ISIS in Iraq, the Islamic State has fallen from 98 percent of its occupied territories, but this does not mean the end of the war, given the fact that the Islamic State has shifted combat mode, its terrorists, its mercenary terrorists, who are referred to in the literature as foreign fighters, are trying to return them to the countries from which they came. About 5,000 people from the territory of the European Union joined the Islamic State in their struggles, they obviously try to get back, there have also been arrests in the Western Balkans in this regard, and I think it is in our interest to maintain a line of defence there, as well, by maintaining the stability of the Western Balkan countries. I ask you, my fellow Members, to support the ratification of the Protocol on the accession of the Republic of North Macedonia to NATO, and we hope that, by the middle of next year, the North Macedonian membership will be fully achieved. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-13-22	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Németh, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-06-13-23	Mr President, Let me ask you a question. Are we having a joint debate or are we having a separate debate on the two items on the agenda?
u2019-06-13-24	Separate.
u2019-06-13-25	Thank you very much. With regard to the approval of the accession of northern Macedonia to NATO, honourable House, I would like to say that I consider this to be the greatest diplomatic success of the last decade of the Western Balkans region, namely the Prespai agreement, which was concluded between Northern Macedonia and Greece in February this year. By changing the name of the country, we have finally left behind a political debate that has been going on for almost 30 years. The fact that a conflict in the Western Balkans has been resolved peacefully clearly indicates that the region is on the road to European integration. These 30 years, in a diplomatic sense, were undeniably a nightmare, and we didn't think that this debate would ever end, and that's why you should be happy. Although the debate on the country's name has only been concluded three months ago, the entry of the Republic of North Macedonia into NATO is the culmination of a successful cooperation since 1995. The country has provided significant military assistance to the organisation both in Afghanistan and Kosovo, which is why the NATO member states agreed in 2008, 11 years ago, that after the name dispute was settled, North Macedonia will automatically receive an invitation to open accession negotiations, so Northern Macedonia, you could say, has now been performing for more than 20 years. Since NATO's 70-year existence, it has been synonymous with the gradual expansion and protection of peace, democracy and Western values. It is indeed a milestone on the road to the western catch-up of the Balkans, as the Minister said. This integration is also in the interests of Hungary and Europe as a whole, a stable, strong North Macedonia will have the opportunity to lead the western opening and catching up of the Balkans. In particular, the country needs the support of Western allies as long as the migration routes across Greece pose a continuing security risk in the region, and let us note that North Macedonia also has the highest recognition of its activities in the field of migration. NATO accession is therefore an extremely welcome process for stability and security in the region. Finally, allow me to make a critical remark. At the same time, it is regrettable that, while NATO is open to the integration of south-eastern Europe, the European Union has been in an inward state for years and is characterised by an increasingly inward state, whether it is the eastern or the southern neighbourhood. As if Brussels does not realise that if it does not offer a real, credible and accessible perspective for the countries of the region, then they will unfortunately already have signs of this, they will turn to someone else for protection and support, and this is not good news for the European Union or NATO, in general, for the West. The European desire to take the European Union seriously on the world stage is an illusion until it is able to exercise influence in its own immediate neighbourhood. It is therefore not an additional issue that, after NATO accession, the accession process of the Balkans, including Northern Macedonia, to the European Union, will be launched. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-13-26	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Anita Potocskanya Kőrösi may now speak, the lead speaker of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2019-06-13-27	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/5886. Proposal No.3 for a Protocol of Accession to the Organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty of Northern Macedonia. The North Atlantic Treaty Organisation decided at its summit in Brussels on 14 June 2018 that the Republic of North Macedonia would be invited to join NATO. [[10.10]] The negotiations were successfully concluded in November 2018 and consequently the Protocol on accession to NATO was signed on 6 February 2019. Following the full accession of NATO membership to NATO countries when all NATO Member States have ratified the agreement on this agreement, it has become necessary for the Government to bring this proposal to the House. This decision was preceded by the agreement between Macedonia and Greece to change the name of Northern Macedonia. In 1991 he became independent of the Yugoslavia of Macedonia. Since there is a significant Macedonian minority in the northern province of Greece, this area is now called Macedonia. The Greeks believed that the Macedonians could make a territorial claim. Of course, this did not take place, but Macedonia changed its name to Northern Macedonia in order to address the fears, so the debates with Greece, a NATO country, ended. It is no wonder that NATO insisted that northern Macedonia be included in its membership, given the strategic geopolitical importance of its location. The rapid and full extension of the NATO defence system in the region was the fundamental reason why accession negotiations took place so quickly. On the 20th anniversary of our NATO membership, we welcome this new Member State and hope that this new country will be able to meet the strategic objectives of NATO, the preservation of values and the fullness of defence. Of course, Jobbik will join the ratification process and vote in favour of the entry into force of the bill. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-13-28	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, head speaker of the MSZP. Here.
u2019-06-13-29	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, this convention, that Northern Macedonia can join NATO, is a milestone, so I agree with all those previous speakers who have spoken that this accession will certainly help the stability of the Balkans. Therefore, let me state immediately at the outset that the MSZP faction will, of course, support this agreement. This is also important because we are celebrating a variety of anniversaries this year with regard to NATO, and it is worth remembering in any way that we are talking about the most successful military defence alliance in history, which is why this defence alliance is able to ensure security for each Member State and guarantee the security of these countries. And it should also be remembered that NATO is not only a defence-military political alliance, but also a kind of community of values, a kind of political alliance, and it certainly requires or at least imposes on Member States different obligations. In another respect, it is important that Northern Macedonia joins NATO; perhaps there were fewer words about this today, but it is worth putting two things on the table during the debate. Both Zsolt Németh and Minister of State listened to this when we talked about the Balkans, that there is a strong geopolitical struggle between the West and the East in the Balkans, between Russia and the United States as much as there are in the world. That is why the fact that North Macedonia has succeeded in joining NATO after the real successful conclusion of the naming debate is a significant rewrite of local relations there, and it makes a major contribution to the expansion of this community of values that I have just talked about towards the Balkans. It is true that the criticism was right that the European Union is much more behind in this, and it would be fortunate, of course, that, after a NATO accession, the other pillar of Euroatlantic integration, EU accession, would speed up as soon as possible. I think it was the right and good initiative of the government to support NATO enlargement, just as we support the accession of various aspirant countries to the European Union, especially when it comes to areas close to the country's external borders, and we did so at the time of previous governments; but we must not leave without saying that in this Russian-American debate, the Hungarian government is not always clearly in favour of Euro-Atlantic values. It is of particular importance in the region that this debate has been resolved from the point of view of northern Macedonia, but it has not always been so, since various internal policy changes have taken place in Northern Macedonia, which have made this accession possible. After all, we must remember earlier, and this is another critical point that I would like to bring up in the debate was another Prime Minister of Northern Macedonia, who is called Gruevski, who certainly was not such a big supporter of this accession, and even talked about the various analyses or press reports that the former Prime Minister wanted to approach Russia, Moscow, and even talked about trying to prevent this accession with some kind of punch, based on press reports, with Russian operations and pilot assistance. Thank God, this has not succeeded, but the question is why Hungary is offering asylum to such a person, who is clearly opposed to our Euroatlantic orientation, so he wanted to approach Russia rather than the East. And if Hungary's position is so clear in this regard, then the question arises why, on the one hand, we are giving political asylum to a person who is sought by public authorities for criminal offences, so to speak, in his own country, and, on the other hand, why does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs carry on so much? active contact with this person. Last time, in an incredibly conspired manner, they arranged a meeting with Gruevski for a private apartment next to the 444 editorial board. I thought the State Department had its own negotiating offices, the Deputy Secretary of State might have some kind of room where he could officially host guests, as is normal. Compared to that, how do I put this undersecretary? He's planning a secret meeting with Gruevski himself. This certainly raises questions. Therefore, if Minister is here, I would like to take this opportunity to ask him what his Deputy State Secretary is doing in a secret meeting organized in a conspirative manner in a private apartment. Are you banned from the State Department? Or wasn't there an empty negotiator? And if I asked you that, then I would also like to know, because suddenly the Deputy Secretary of State became very narrow when the press approached him, because all he had to do was leave the room next door to his 444 journalists, and when they wanted to know what he had agreed on, what he had discussed, he did not say a word. I assume the Minister asked the Deputy Secretary of State what he was doing at a meeting conspiring in a private apartment. And I'd like to ask you whether there will be consequences or what the content of this trial has been. What could not be discussed in the State Department's building with this politician, who has been accused of criminal offences in his own country? So I really wanted to use the opportunity to do that. I would like to conclude by saying that from the point of view of Hungary, our national interests, from the point of view of Hungary's security and peace in the region, this is an extremely forward-looking step for NATO, which must be welcomed in any way. True, as Zsolt Németh said, stability will certainly increase through this cooperation. And that Northern Macedonia can join NATO as the thirtieth Member State, it can in any case be a forward-looking and an example for the European Union, for example. So I would like to conclude with what I started: the Hungarian Socialist Party is happy to support this law. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-13-30	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Agnes Vadai, lead speaker of the Democratic Coalition, please.
u2019-06-13-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, There are relatively few cases in this House, which, I can say, there is consensus across the cycle, such as the integration of the Western Balkans. Opponents and pro-government representatives have always consistently supported the fact that countries that are located either directly or a little further away from our neighbours, but in the Western Balkans, should become members of Euroatlantic integration organisations as soon as possible. [[10.20]] All foreign affairs representatives and foreign ministers, State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, and, where necessary, defence ministers and defence ministers have obviously done their best to allow these countries to join NATO and the European Union as soon as possible. It is therefore a joy, as Zsolt Németh and Attila Mesterházy said, that after quite a long time, since in 1995 the process of Macedonia started with the peace partner, its journey towards NATO, we reached today, when Hungary is finally debating this issue, but perhaps not arguing, but rather discussing this bill, and I sincerely hope that what the Foreign Minister said that there is a chance that all countries will ratify the accession of Northern Macedonia to NATO in the spring of 2020. This is indeed a rather long way to go, while this country has come, with many, many struggles, and indeed the Prespai agreement was, in the view of the Democratic Coalition, a turning point in this process. Of course, our group will support this bill, i.e. the bill to publish the Protocol on the accession of the Republic of North Macedonia to NATO. It was my fellow Member, Attila Mesterházy, who mentioned that, of course, we understand the interests, they are very important, but the basis of any such cooperation is a community of values, that there are matters, there are ideas that we share, and it is really very important that he has arrived in this respect among us in Northern Macedonia, and that this country finally has values, foreign policy orientations, which are the values of Hungary and the North Atlantic Alliance. 29 European and North American countries are now deciding in these weeks, months and we hope that it will not be years before this decision is made for North Macedonia to join NATO. And I agree with all those who have said that, although it has been a long process, we see that it is perhaps a little faster than in the case of the European Union. This is why the Democratic Coalition also calls for all those who have the opportunity to take action to confirm the need to open negotiations with Albania and Northern Macedonia in the European Union after NATO accession. If there is a country that knows how important it is that, after NATO accession, which is a political community of values and obviously a very important defence community, but it is important that we can be a part of it, and, as in our case, we could be part of the European Union, I think that the completion of the process, with which these countries can truly join the free world, is that of the European Union. It is therefore a joy that Albania has already been able to join NATO in 2009, and this is finally the case for Northern Macedonia, but I think that the process that Attila Mesterházy talked about is the debate between the East and the West, which is what we have and we are fighting with, is not over, it is only the end of a chapter, because if we do get there, then North Macedonia can join NATO effectively next year, although indeed, in various missions, Macedonian soldiers have been constantly involved, and we thank them for that, but we must continue this process in order to ensure that the fight that determines the world today, between the free world and the less free world, will be successful in North Macedonia, and I add it to Albania. Therefore, the Democratic Coalition supports the government's efforts and all our allies' efforts to start accession negotiations with these countries as soon as possible. The good news has lasted so long, but we still need to talk about the events of the last few weeks. The reason why we have to talk about this is because when we talk about NATO, we are talking not only about values, interests, but also about trust. My fellow Member, Attila Mesterházy, mentioned that between 2006 and 2016, he was a former prime minister in Macedonia who was not always interested in bringing Macedonia, later northern Macedonia close to us and Hungary, much more interested in removing this country from Hungary, removing it from NATO and preventing and removing it from the European Union. Fortunately, this is no longer the case today, but the events of the past few weeks and the events of last year have been very unfortunate. As has already been mentioned here, on 11 November 2018, the former Macedonian Prime Minister escaped from Macedonia quite simply, was sentenced to permanent imprisonment and should have begun to serve his sentence. I think it was a big mistake, then, on the part of the governing parties and perhaps the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, that silence was a big mistake, because if the opposition representatives had asked the questions they would have answered, then perhaps there would be greater confidence in this matter today, and I would believe that you would really like to join NATO in North Macedonia with a pure heart, genuine interest and value, and will do everything in order to allow North Macedonia to join the European Union, because the information available on the escape last year clearly shows that this man could escape from the law with the knowledge of the Hungarian government and even with the help of foreign ministry staff. We now know that he has received special treatment, because, as I recall, Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, spoke about the fact that Nikola Gruevski, former Macedonian Prime Minister, who was sentenced to permanent imprisonment in his country, received special treatment, so he did not have to stay in the transit zone. Unfortunately, they also violated their own laws in order to protect a man who the Democratic Coalition considered North Macedonia at least this way, to remove northern Macedonia from NATO, and to do so they were willing to violate the law. After all, special treatment is granted to an adult unaccompanied minor, pregnant, pregnant woman, or to a person who has been sexually, psychologically or otherwise abused, and therefore has a special need for treatment. As recent weeks have shown footage of former Prime Minister Nikola Gruevski of Macedonia, I see that none of them are, certainly not a pregnant woman, certainly not a minor child, but it does not appear particularly in the case of smoking shots that he has been psychologically abused. It has already been mentioned that the illegality of coming here, the help of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, has not been personally helped by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, although we know that a year earlier the Hungarian Prime Minister met Nikola Gruevski, when he was no longer the Prime Minister, and the proceedings have been ongoing, because it is not only about the corruption issue that has to be discussed here, with regard to my fellow Members, the former Prime Minister of Northern Macedonia, but also about thousands of wiretappings. And this is an extremely important question of trust, because there are not only military actions within NATO where there is cooperation, but also closer links between the Member States, in order to make the cooperation of the secret service even more effective. Imagine a situation where, at the moment, a former Macedonian Prime Minister is on the territory of Hungary, who has allowed secret and illegal wiretaps against thousands of opponents. It's just a blur on the cake that he's even been convicted of corruption. That's when we arrived last Friday, June 7th, when I think there was a case that came up that wasn't in his place, in his personal composition, or in his timing, to put it mildly, wasn't fortunate. About a week ago István Joó, Deputy State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Nikola Gruevszki, as has been said here, met an Internet newspaper near the editorial office of 444.hu, in an apartment owned not only by the Hungarian State but by two Chinese citizens, one of whom was an establishment bond holder. So there's another thread here. [[10.30]] Anyone who knows this world, as if the world of secret meetings, may even find it okay; not that these two people meet, but that there are such apartments, here there are real interests, and there are such meetings. But the fact that this is not owned by the Hungarian State, but is owned by two Chinese citizens, one of whom is a resident bond, raises questions in itself. The fact that this meeting takes place a week before the debate of the bill on the accession of the Republic of North Macedonia to NATO, at least I can say that the timing is very bad, because one might think that there is some reason why István Joó would have to meet none other than Nikola Gruevski, the former Macedonian Prime Minister. Fellow Members! I can tell you that... I would like to add one more parentheses note: all this happened on Margaret Boulevard, where Nikola Gruevski was illegally parked. I would just like to say that there really is no limit to insolence. I think it is wrong to do this, it is wrong to organise such meetings in such a place, and I think it is wrong to maintain such a flat for such meetings, and frankly, as much as you think it is perfectly okay that this person is in Hungary, the Hungarian rules also apply to him, he must also park properly. The fact that his people then had the tools based on the recordings, I think it raises further questions, most of all, within the remit of the Ministry of the Interior. On this matter, and I am truly sorry that we have to talk about it in this very bill, because North Macedonia, the North Macedonia that left behind Gruevski's legacy, has nothing to do with it. Our support is for the country, but it is simply for future cooperation, in the interest of confidence, that it must be clarified what it is that István Joó has to do with this, and on whose behalf he performed last week's action, which was weak and secret, as it turned out in the end, was not really secret. Then, on that basis, I would really like to say that you could have sat down here and then you could finally ask the Macedonian Prime Minister, who might be able to authentically tell you how he got out of Macedonia, with whose help he got out of Macedonia. I think this case here is a problem, a problem of trust. I would like to ask the MPs in this matter at the Defence and Police Committee on several occasions to make this clear, and I would have liked the Minister of Foreign Affairs to come, when the Minister of the Interior comes, the representative of the defence wallet will come. I think it would be a very good time, and I would very much like for the Minister of Foreign Affairs to take the initiative at the Defence and Police Committee, just in order to restore Hungarian and North Macedonian confidence in Northern Macedonia, to be such a item on the agenda; even in a closed session, because there may be information that we do not know about, there may be a special national interest that has not been shared with us so far in connection with Nikola Gruevski. This is important that the series of accession negotiations, which has successfully come to fruition and which will be ratified soon from the Hungarian side, will be accompanied by a simultaneous restoration of trust. We are very pleased that Northern Macedonia will become a member of NATO and we encourage everyone to help both Albania and Northern Macedonia take European integration steps in order to ensure that the community of values that Hungary shares can be complete. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-13-32	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that we have reached the end of the speaker's speeches. Congressman Attila Mesterházy asked for a two-minute speech, MSZP. Here you go.
u2019-06-13-33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I forgot to ask you a question just now, Minister, I'd like to make it up to you. The Chinese owners of this apartment, these people, they've been through security checks? So in Hungarian: if you are negotiating office matters here, at least you are negotiating, then these people have been subjected to any national security screening if this is used so regularly by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? Thank you very much.
u2019-06-13-34	Thank you very much. No further signs of a two-minute speech were received, no speaker requesting a normal word. [[For signal:]] Since then, my sentence has been too long, so Congressman Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, can take the floor. Here you go.
u2019-06-13-35	Thank you, Mr. President. I was just foolishly hoping that the pro-government lines would make a two-minute commentary, but it didn't. I think you have one question to answer, Minister, with the fact that, of course, I can only confirm the support of the bill here, but the Gruevski case cannot be separated from that. I think there's only one question, because all the other questions that Mr. Mesterházy and Ágnes Vadai have put are going to follow. With the knowledge and permission of Minister of State, did the Deputy Secretary of State meet this man in an apartment owned by the Chinese, I could call it a secret apartment, but must he be pretty stupid to use it as a secret apartment next to an editorial office, or did he not know it, Minister? If you knew, Minister, you will be required to answer all the other questions that my fellow Members have asked here. If you didn't know about it, then obviously you just have to answer one question: what kind of investigation and what consequences awaits the Deputy Secretary of State in your ministry? Thank you. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai applauds.]]
u2019-06-13-36	Thank you. Honourable Members, I'll ask if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal coming through.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I will ask Minister if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[On the sign of Péter Szijjártó:]] You have the floor. Here you go.
u2019-06-13-37	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for participating in the debate on the item on the agenda. There have been some comments that I would like to respond to. My fellow Member, Attila Mesterházy, missed the fact that we would not have talked to Zsolt Németh about the east-west battle in the Western Balkans. I wouldn't want to make any bad comments, but when I said that when we get together European Union Foreign Ministers and a significant majority of them are crying at least metaphorically about what external influences and influences are on the part of non-friendly factors in the Western Balkans, I was talking about this; I apologize if this was not sufficiently understandable. It's just that I think this crying is false. It is false, because it is our decision, the decision of the European Union, the decision of the Member States of the European Union, that we want to do in this, let us call it, in East-West competition, for our own good and for the interests of the Western Balkans. Do we want to do anything? Because on Tuesday, it will be the decision of the Member States of the European Union alone, no one else, to start accession negotiations with Northern Macedonia and Albania in relation to the European Union. We will support this, loudly, openly, honestly; we are not prisoners of political correctness or hypocrisy; we dare to speak openly and honestly about it. But let me draw your attention to one more thing. None of you spoke here in Parliament when Ukraine could not enter into an association agreement between the European Union and Ukraine because the Netherlands had not ratified it. What would have happened, fellow Members, if we had not ratified it if Hungary had not ratified it? What would the European press have been about? Because the Dutch didn't do it: well, they have domestic affairs, so they don't. What if it's not a double standard? We also spoke in favour of the Ukrainians, despite the fact that we have had bilateral difficulties, in a delicate way, since then. We also argue openly when, for example, we block further development of relations between Ukraine and NATO, and we also speak openly when it comes to northern Macedonians and Albanians and other Western Balkan countries. I would like to say to you that, yes, the former Prime Minister of the Republic of Macedonia, Nikola Gruevski, is here in Hungary, according to the decision of an authority independent of the government; we are legally underlining this, which is also part of the facts. This man was Prime Minister of the Republic of Macedonia for ten years, ten years. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: So?]] [[10.40]] And you did not win this lottery, honourable Members, but you graduated first in five elections. Five elections, based on the decision of the Macedonian citizens. So you can be more Macedonian than Macedonian... [[Dr. Tamás Harangozó: Convicted by the Macedonian Court!]] But did I just yell at you when you were talking? I'm sorry to tell you, it's the children's room category, who had it and who didn't. I've listened to you, if you don't want my answer, you can yell behind my back, I'll try to answer.
u2019-06-13-38	But I'm not going to allow that, so this is Minister speaking, please.
u2019-06-13-39	Thank you, Mr. President. So this man won a five-time election in Macedonia, because Macedonian citizens chose to do so. And you can be more Macedonian than Macedonian, but we don't want to decide who's head of government in another country in the world. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: It's him!]] He won five elections, he was prime minister for ten years. Do you think that today in Hungary, you believe that today there is an expert in Hungary who understands the Western Balkans better than Nikola Gruevski, who was prime minister there for ten years? I don't think so. Maybe you think there is, I don't think there is. So if we were to obtain the most credible information about what is happening in the Western Balkans, where are the Western Balkans' developments, then who would we be talking to if we weren't talking to a man who was Prime Minister for ten years? And, yes, we talk to him regularly. Where? It doesn't matter. I used to talk to him at the Ministry in my own office. And the fact that the State Department officials are in contact with a man who's been prime minister of his own country for ten years, I think it's natural. And you know what, fellow Members? This will continue to be the case in the future. We will continue to keep in touch with him regularly in the future, and I will continue to consult him on matters concerning the Western Balkans, which I will obviously always do in my office. And let me tell you something else, fellow Members. Nikola Gruevski supports the Euroatlantic integration of his own country. When I asked him what he thought about this process, he said that he asked the Hungarian Government to submit the proposal for ratification to the Hungarian Parliament as soon as possible and that the Hungarian Parliament should vote on it as soon as possible. So you are not telling the truth when you say that the former Macedonian Prime Minister would not support the Euroatlantic integration of his country. And let me tell you one more thing: we supported the integration processes of the Macedonians when the Party of the European People's Party gave the government, and we now support the fact that a socialist party is leading northern Macedonia. This is precisely what shows that we have no party prejudice on this issue, this is a national interest for Hungary, and let it be socialist, communist, liberal, pro-ethnic, Christian Democrat, conservative, any government in Macedonia, Northern Macedonia, Albania, anywhere, we will always support the integration processes of the Western Balkan countries. And speaking of corruption, my fellow Members, you must know that there is a man in Macedonia, we have nothing to do with it, because it is not our decision, nor our decision, nor the North Macedonians have chosen it, it is their job, but there is a man in Macedonia who has been convicted of corruption and has been pardoned by the President. Do you know who that is? The current Prime Minister Zoran Zaev. Head of the Socialist Party in Northern Macedonia. You're not so sensitive about that. Why is that? And once again, we don't care, and it's none of our business, it's not our job who gets elected Prime Minister in Northern Macedonia, because that's what the North Macedonians do. They'll decide; if they're okay with it, it's okay with us. I just want to say that the use of double standards may not be appropriate. You say that contact with the former Macedonian Prime Minister calls into question our commitment to support the integration processes of the North Macedonians. Let me ask you, why are we here? Well, we have decided that the government has decided to submit the issue of ratification to the Hungarian Parliament. If we didn't want to, do you think we'd present it? [[Attila Mesterházy: Minister...]] If you're so, if you're so... yes, you are. If we didn't want it so badly, would we vote for it? Well, don't be ridiculous. For Hungary, this is a national interest, and it is independent, and I repeat, who is leading Northern Macedonia. And I'd like to say one more thing. Why aren't they getting directions? Your brother and sister are leading the Republic of North Macedonia today. The Secretary of State belongs to your fraternity. I spent five hours with him yesterday in the same airspace in Trieste. He didn't come to me, and he didn't say that Peter, there's a loss of trust in you. Well, let's not be more North Macedonian than North Macedonian. If he had a problem, he would have come. We'll see each other on a monthly basis. Just yesterday. And he always thanked me, and he thanked us yesterday for the support that we gave them, because yesterday at the Central European Initiative Foreign Minister's meeting I spoke in the same way, and I was also very clear about our support for the NATO and EU integration process of the North Macedonians. He came over and thanked me. Just like the Albanian colleague, who is also a socialist, came and thanked me again. So the reality and what you are saying is, in this respect, honourable Members, with the utmost respect, but it is not in harmony with each other. So I would like to say once again that our support is true across governments, we will continue to support the integration efforts of the North Macedonians, and we will, of course, continue to keep in touch with Nikola Gruevski for ten years in Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-13-40	Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that it is possible to present the amendments by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, A joint general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the United States of America on the draft law on the publication of an agreement on defence cooperation and a proposal for a decision authorising the stationing of armed forces of the United States of America in Hungary until closure follows. Government referrals T/6348. and H/6354. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I now give the floor to Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, the author of the proposal. Here you go.
u2019-06-13-41	Thank you again for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the question of President Zsolt Németh is whether we will discuss the item together or whether this item could be dealt with separately from a procedural point of view.
u2019-06-13-42	I replied to Congressman Németh that separately, because I am an oppositionist, and then it fits better with style. [[Defiance.]] But by the way, these two agenda items go together. Here you go.
u2019-06-13-43	Yes, but Zsolt Németh was right, because we really discussed the previous item regardless of any other item on the agenda. So here we have discussed two partial agenda points, honourable Members. Here, the purpose of the bill before you is to allow Parliament, by adopting this law, to authorise the recognition of the binding scope of the agreement on defence cooperation between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the United States of America, and the authentic text of the agreement in Hungarian and English, with this decision, to be published. Ladies and gentlemen, Before going into the substance of what is to be said, of course, there may be a legitimate question as to why the text of this agreement is being presented now. During the term of office of the former Democratic American administration, there was an extremely poor political relationship between the United States and Hungary. We can remember that the Democratic administration has always tried to intervene in Hungarian domestic affairs. In this respect, the experiments almost equalized each other. And that was true even if we knew that, even at that time, the two other pillars of cooperation, economic and defence, were excellent. Then, in 2016, the Americans chose a Republican president to remember European hysteria. In this regard, however, it has been proven to everyone that the mainstream media does not choose the President of the United States, but that the American citizens elect the President of the United States. Of course, after that, an extraordinary meeting of the European Union's foreign ministers was convened, in which I, along with the British Foreign Minister's colleague, did not participate myself, because I did not think that we could have anything to say on the merits a few days after the American presidential election. Besides, it's not our job who the Americans choose to be their own leader. After the election of President Donald Trump, the U.S. foreign policy doctrine in our region has changed, and, of course, a different type of foreign policy has been applied to our country by the new Presidential Administration. In the new U.S. foreign policy approach, it has been recognised that our region is strategically important for federal policy, and it has been recognised and even put into practice that, in the relationship with the allies, the emphasis should be on dialogue and not on education. [[10.50]] After that, I think it is no wonder that our political relations started to recover after the Republican administration took office. The latest example of this is obviously the Prime Minister's visit to the White House with President Donald Trump in May. As far as our economic relations are concerned, I can tell you that at present, following the German investor community, American investment companies are the second in Hungary. A total of 1700 U.S. companies employ 105,000 Hungarians. 15% of direct investment in working capital from abroad comes from the United States and the United States is the number one export market in Hungary outside the European Union. So our economic relations continue to develop dynamically. I think it makes sense that we should also strengthen our defence cooperation, which has worked well in otherwise stormy political times, when the political climate has also become favourable between the two countries. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, So far, the legal framework for bilateral military cooperation between Hungary and America has been ensured by a so-called OMNIBUS agreement, which has been in force since 1997, before Hungary's accession to NATO. This applies to the US forces in Hungary and their status. The Hungarian-American defence agreement is a renewal of this agreement, and, like the agreement called OMNIBUS, NATO members are mutually applicable so-called and again sorry for the term NATO SOFA complements the agreement; SOFA is the abbreviation of the Status of Forces Agreement. As in the OMNIBUS agreement, this agreement therefore applies to the US military personnel in Hungary and their legal status. On the one hand, the renewal of the previous document is required by the fact that the 1997 agreement has become obsolete in several areas. Obviously, we are not going to have a long debate here about whether, since 1997, many, many or more things have changed in the world from an economic, political and security point of view. However, I think it can be seen with common sense that time has passed over a defence type agreement concluded in 1997, or at least there have been new challenges that need to be adequately addressed within our contractual framework. Another reason for modernising the agreement currently in force is that the drafting of the document is indeed linked to developments under NATO and to our commitments. According to NATO's relevant decisions, the Allies have placed increasing emphasis on the development of adequate military capabilities in recent years, whether it be about increasing defence spending, dynamicising procurement, increasing preparedness or increasing the capacity of rapid response forces. Moreover, there is also a strong emphasis on common practice that is now becoming regular. Of course, all these changes attract the need to develop infrastructure. It is also worth mentioning, ladies and gentlemen, that the United States has not only negotiated with Hungary on the modernisation of the defence cooperation agreement, but has already concluded these negotiations with six other countries in the country, and they have signed the agreements, and they have also entered into force. These are the three Baltic countries, namely Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia, as well as our neighbours, Romania and Poland and Bulgaria. In addition, the US administration is negotiating a similar agreement with neighbouring Slovakia and Norway. If you allow me, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to some of the elements of the content because I think that if an agreement affects or affects the issues of national sovereignty, it is appropriate to place it here on the table of Parliament in every element and in every detail, so that Members of Parliament can make a decision in full awareness of their responsibilities. There are not many serious things like national sovereignty. Firstly, I would like to draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen, to the elements that guarantee the sovereignty of our country. They were one of the most important factors in why the negotiations had slipped, and why they had so long gone on. We insisted that references to Hungarian sovereignty should be included in the text, so that our attachment to sovereignty was recorded in accordance with Article 47 of the Fundamental Law. This article of our basic law also clearly provides for rules on team movements and stationing. However, it is necessary to grant public licences which are essential for the implementation of the Agreement at the same time as the publication of the Agreement. That's why we have two part-time points ahead of us. This condition is fulfilled under Article 47 of the Fundamental Law only if the Parliament and the Government grant the necessary permits in parallel to the entry into force of the Agreement. To this end, with Parliament's approval of the agreement, there is a need for a proposal for a parliamentary decision to station and, on the other hand, a government decision to authorise the various team movements. With this solution, therefore, I would like to emphasise once again that it is necessary to ensure our sovereignty aspects. Then I would also like to draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen, to the fact that the agreement mainly includes areas of activity which the United States military forces have already implemented in Hungary, i.e. the agreement does not mean that the scope of activities is broadened. At the same time, I would also like to stress that there was also a debate with the American party on the possibility that this agreement should provide for the launch of offensive operations. After long negotiations, we have succeeded in enforcing our own position, so there is no reference to the launch of an offensive operation against a third country from Hungary, and accordingly no authorisation has been included in this treaty. In this way, we have ensured that the Hungarian authorities, the Parliament and the Government cannot launch an operation from the territory of Hungary against a third country within the framework of this agreement. I would also like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the issue of criminal jurisdiction. In this case, we followed the principle or requirements of the 1997 Agreement, which has already been referred to several times. According to this, Hungary renounces primary criminal jurisdiction. Again, it's not new, it's been that way since 1997. In serious cases, however, we withdraw this statement with a special statement so that the relevant procedure can be carried out here, in Hungary, according to Hungarian law. I would also like to draw the attention of honourable Members to the fact that our membership of the European Union is necessarily a new circumstance compared to the 1997 agreement, so obviously, in the context of our membership of the European Union, this agreement must address several issues which had not yet been dealt with in 1997. At the same time, the 1997 agreement also provided US armed forces with official and personal tax exemptions. We have brought the regulations in this regard into line with the European Union's regulations. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In conclusion, I can tell you that the legal framework for military cooperation is properly adapted to the conditions of today's times by this agreement and is also in line with Hungary's interests in foreign and security policy and defence policy. We can safely say, without exaggeration, that defence and military cooperation between Hungary and the United States has been excellent to date. This is partly due to the fact that defence cooperation with the Americans was not the subject of much debate here in Parliament, although we can remember that it was not possible to establish a full unity between the two sides of the horseshoe that Hungarian soldiers could actually participate in the operations of the United States-led coalition against the Islamic State in Iraq. [[11.00]] After all, this was voted by a two-thirds majority with partial support from the opposition, which I think has made clear that Hungary is committed to fighting terrorism not only in words but also in action. I think that this agreement and its implementation will serve to further deepen Hungarian-American relations, which I believe we have all been convinced about in recent years, with a mutual political intention. Dear Parliament, Finally, I would like to say to you that I have had the opportunity, together with Minister Tibor Benkő, to present this agreement on the Defence Committee before it was signed. I particularly insisted that, before signing such a far-reaching treaty, our fellow Members of Parliament, at least those who have the most professional knowledge of this issue, should be aware of its content. At that time, at the meeting of Parliament's Defence Committee, we were faced with a fundamentally supportive attitude from both the opposition and the pro-government side. Then I signed this agreement with the Deputy Foreign Minister of America in Washington, and now I ask you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to support the Government's presentation, ratify and implement this agreement. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-06-13-44	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, The speech will now take place in a 30-30-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Németh, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2019-06-13-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The defence cooperation agreement with the United States has a rather long history. In November 17, the United States proposed that the 22-year bilateral agreement governing the status of its armed forces in Hungary be replaced by a new agreement, the defence cooperation agreement, in the thieving language by the DCA. I believe that there have been some important milestones in the process of concluding the agreement, one of which is, in any case, the visit of Foreign Minister Pompeo to Budapest this February. Let me draw attention to the fact that there was some time between the recent visit to the Foreign Minister and the previous visit to the Foreign Minister, the last visit to the Foreign Minister was exactly eight years, in 2011, or it is important to stress that the Hungarian Parliament itself, the delegation of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, took part in the lobbying, as in April we had a lot of discussions on this issue in Washington. While this process led to the visit of Foreign Minister Péter Szijjártó in Washington this April, which finally brought the signature. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] I would like to express my appreciation to the State Department in this place. It was a very long negotiation process, a sensitive negotiation process, and it was also personally part of Minister for Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó, who played his part in bringing this agreement under the roof. Last June, the new American ambassador, Mr David Cornstein, arrived in our country, and he, after taking his post, indicated a year ago that it was a priority for the conclusion of the treaty, both personally and for his government. He did his part, too, I think, because we can now say that we are going through an extremely important chapter in Hungarian-American relations, when President Trump received Prime Minister Viktor Orbán in the White House. This agreement has played an important role in this process, and Ambassador David Cornstein has also played his part in this. The Trump administration broke up with its predecessor's foreign policy from two particularly important aspects of Hungary. I think it's right for us to say that here. First of all, Trump Administration has rediscovered Central Europe itself. The proof of this is no more than that President Trump visited Warsaw on his second trip abroad in July 2017, and on this visit a very important speech, I dare say that he may have held his most important foreign policy speech, and this was about us. This speech could have been spoken in Budapest, and it could have been said from the mouth of a Hungarian public figure. The commitment of the United States to the military defence of Central Europe, in the light of this speech, can be clearly said today, is unquestionable. Another important change is that for the past two and a half years, American foreign policy has not been focused on educating and educating allies, but the United States enforces the national interest of the United States by trying to treat its allies as partners. These two developments, which reflected the Cardinal change in the foreign policy of Trump administration: on the one hand, we are relieved of this relief, I believe that we can look at it regardless of party policy, and on the other hand Central Europe is appreciated in the strategic foreign policy thinking of the US, and the United States sees a fantasy in Central Europe. As a result of all these two changes, the assessment of the situation, which was formulated after the meeting of Viktor Orbán and President Trump, was that there was a strategic partnership between the United States and Hungary, perhaps a diplomatic term that accurately describes the relationship between the two states. Finally, after a year and a half of negotiations, the agreement was signed at the margins of the Foreign Minister's Conference in Washington on the 70th anniversary of NATO. With regard to NATO and in the context of this agreement, this is not a coincidence. The Lord God is a great organizer in this regard: the conclusion of this agreement is fitting into the process when NATO has found itself again. It is brave to say that the Russian aggression against Ukraine in 2014 has had the positive collateral effect that NATO has once again found its own voice, NATO has been resurrected: the 2014 Welsh Summit has already set out the path of NATO, which is reflected in Warsaw and Brussels, as well as in this agreement. The conclusion of the agreement is a lasting and mutual commitment, recognising that the activities of the US Armed Forces contribute to strengthening the security and stability of Hungary and Central Europe, which Hungary recognises and reciprocates with this agreement. [[11.10]] So it is safe to say that although our relations in the economy are very diverse, as the Minister said here, or at the highest political level, and it was essential that a breakthrough take place here, and it is welcome that this year, 2019, this happened with a meeting of foreign ministers, a meeting at the presidential level, but we can safely say that NATO is the strongest link between the United States and Hungary. Therefore, the differentiated treatment of NATO and NATO related security issues is highly justified. Our country has been a member of NATO for 20 years, so we've been officially in a military alliance with the United States ever since. During this 20-year period, in particular, NATO's international missions and international military operations in general have been doing a lot of our part and we are taking part now; some 500 Hungarian soldiers are serving in Kosovo, and the quota in Afghanistan will soon increase to 180 to mention just a few examples. We thank all Hungarian soldiers for this position, be they soldiers of any rank. The concept of collective protection has now become generally known, and Hungary is not faced with a difficult challenge by the idea that Hungary's basic interests will be protected by our Hungarian soldiers in Afghanistan. That's the logic of collective protection. However, apart from the expedition forces, the Hungarian Defence Office was in no good condition until recently, it could not be said that it was a modern XXI. It's a military force of the century. This is above all due to the fact that governments prior to this one have allowed it to decay better, but more often they themselves have actively contributed to its destruction. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That's not true!]] For example, in 2002, as a result of a long process, when the objective of achieving 2 percent of the defence expenditure was reached at 1.5 per cent, by 2010, my fellow Member managed to reach 0.7 per cent. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai and Dr. Tamás Bellozó: No!]] to disengage this data [[Dr. Tamás Harangozó: 2015!]] So the figures of this dramatic setback speak for themselves. [[Dr. Tamás Harangozó: Well, this is quite amazing!]] Now, however, the situation has changed, with, of course, the fact that, fortunately, it hasn't been for a while. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Szilárd Németh...]] Those who have committed this damage are on the government, and on the other hand, this is closely related to the Hungarian economy, and the figures allow us to spend really more on the development of forces, in line with NATO's Welsh objectives, or with President Trump's very strong line management after his election. Thirdly, it has also become a widespread recognition that Europe must be able to defend itself. We need the Americans, we need the protection of an unimaginable Europe without them, so it is good that they are here, that is what this agreement is all about, but in the long run, Europe needs its own self-defense capacity. If there is something that we can clearly recognise from the performance of the Juncker Committee, I think that the Permanent Structured Cooperation, which is the enhanced permanent cooperation in defence policy, is in any case a very serious achievement in the development of the European Union's defence strategy. Of course, the big issues have not yet been resolved regarding the relationship between NATO and defence cooperation at European level. It is a very serious issue that we will develop European and Atlantic protection together or separately, including the issues of the defence industry. The Hungarian government has undertaken to build a modern Hungarian army, and we have everything we need: our excellent Hungarian soldiers with very serious international experience, sufficient resources and specified technological bases now to use these resources effectively, and we also have the necessary political will to create a modern force. There is a part of this construction in which Hungary is also counting heavily on the Americans. This includes, for example, the question of mid-range anti-aircraft missiles, on which the Hungarian Prime Minister's visit to Washington has also made very important progress. But the point, which reflects the ambition to implement this modern Hungarian army, is the Zrinyi programme of 2026 and the determination to raise Hungary's defence budget to a level of 2% by 2024 at the latest. I would like to briefly address two specific aspects of the Convention. The agreement goes beyond the modern foundation of the twenty-year OMNIBUS agreement, and also extends to the creation of a legal framework for investment by the US forces in Hungarian military facilities. This is a very important practical aspect; after 22 years, it is absolutely justified that what belongs to one another should grow together. And there is a very important principle that the Minister has also touched on, and that is the question of sovereignty. It is important to state that the agreement does not violate Hungary's sovereignty. There was, however, a military alliance, the Warsaw Treaty, on which it could not be said. I consider it extremely important that NATO operates on a consensus basis, and this is also a very important aspect of one of the most exciting and important debates in the European Union, namely the increasing pressure on Hungary and many of the Member States that think like us to introduce majority decision-making in the European Union in the field of defence and security policy. This pressure is becoming suffocating, and I therefore consider it extremely important to have a foreign policy agreement in Hungary, a defence and security policy agreement with regard to the rejection of the introduction of majority decision-making. We believe that the European Union must learn from NATO. If NATO is able to make consensus-based strategic, security, defence and foreign policy decisions, why not work in the European Union? This principle has been operational in recent years. Learn the European Union from NATO! And if you can't find a solution, then perhaps you should look for a flaw in yourself and try to examine the culture, the behaviour, the way NATO is able to develop the individual allies and the Member States. We believe that national sovereignty and collective security are indeed compatible. The armed forces of the United States may reside and carry out their activities in Hungary with the approval of our country, in full respect of the Fundamental Law and other laws. That's what this agreement is about. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[11.20]]
u2019-06-13-46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Congressman Brenner Koloman will be back later, so he will make his speech later in the speaker's speeches when he returns. I now give the floor to Mr András Aradszki, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-06-13-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I think it is important to begin by saying that I have the feeling, by signing this agreement, that we have returned to the values of the 1990 period when we decided that, leaving the Warsaw Treaty, in which Prime Minister József Antall played an inexorable role, we were directed to a collective defence and security organization and entered into what was the North Atlantic Alliance. In 1997, the Hungarian State concluded an agreement with NATO, which concerned that this OMNIBUS agreement was the arrangement of the mutually applicable Status of Forces Agreement between NATO members on the status of US forces in Hungary. Time is moving forward, and, compared to 1997, significant economic, political, military policy and legal changes have taken place in the world, Europe and Hungary, as well as in the United States. It has become certain that this agreement needs to be modernised, in line with the changed political weight of the United States, with its changed political attitude, when a political direction with practical solutions instead of exporting democracy became dominant with President Trump's election. Perhaps it is not a coincidence that during the so-called democracy export period NATO as an organisation was not at its peak, which could also be used by some Member States to ensure that the commitments undertaken were not either little or only minimal. NATO's role will be strengthened by similar agreements, such as the subject of the parliamentary debate, which will ensure the effective operation of the common defence system and ensure it, and this is a political agreement in order to enable Hungary to fulfil its commitment to contribute to the NATO defence system, proportionate to the common burden-bearing capacity of Hungary. With regard to Hungary, we can say, and we are proud to say that in recent years there has been a significant shift in the focus of strengthening our defence capabilities, both through budgetary coverage and by making military policy decisions. An important element of this process is Parliament's approval of the agreement before us, even because it is certain that Europe is a very important geopolitical factor, including Central Europe and Eastern Europe, a very important strategic factor of which we are part, and it is essential to welcome and support the fact that the United States, using its changed political orientation, provides a stronger guarantee of the development of common defence instruments and of strengthening the common defence potential. It is a big dilemma when we talk about such an agreement and we debate how it relates to the issue of Hungarian sovereignty. Basically, any international agreement means, at some level, any modification, reduction or increase of their respective state sovereignty to the parties who have concluded it. I think it is important to underline that, during the negotiations, we have been able to countersign and sign an agreement by which a constitutional solution to the reduction of Hungarian sovereignty from the nature of the matter can be ensured. I think it is very important to mention that, as a rule, the government authorises team movements. There are exceptions to this, which include the fact that, in the case of application and stationing, when there is this type of intention on the part of the United States, the Parliament decides to approve this. In addition, I think it is important that it was understandable, from a military point of view, that Hungary should provide the United States soldiers with the broadest possible movement and legal opportunity for their stay here, but the content of the agreement will stand the test of Hungarian constitutionality, and it will stand up to the strength of the standard that limits Hungarian sovereignty to such a extent that it is necessary only to the minimum and to the extent necessary for this agreement to work effectively. Why do we need this agreement? In particular, in order to strengthen our defence potential and not only Hungary's defence potential, but also in the defence structure of Central Europe as a whole, this agreement will lead to significant changes, even because the United States has concluded and will enter into a similar agreement with Poland, Romania, Bulgaria and the three Baltic States: Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia. This agreement also has a bearing on its ability to counter certain attacks and influences that threaten Europe's central power. On the basis of this, the agreement meets the strategic interests of Hungary, defence and geopolitical interests both in terms of purpose and content, it meets the requirements of sovereignty in our constitutional order, and the Christian Democratic People's Party therefore proposes and will support the adoption of the proposed resolution. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-13-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. [[11.30]]
u2019-06-13-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The Hungarian Socialist Party, of course, supports both proposals, all the more so, since the invitation to join NATO fell during the period of Gyula Horn's government in 97 and, if we are already talking about sovereignty issues, the Hungarian people were asked in a referendum to give up such a great degree of sovereignty in order to ensure its security, and this was an effective and valid referendum, and in 99 the accession treaty itself was concluded during the post-Fidesz government. That is why it is always worth talking about NATO, of course, because NATO, as we have often said, is the world's strongest and most successful military and political alliance, and within this alliance, the hegemony of the United States, I think, is not questionable. Many may not know it, but to this day, if we take the world's first ten greatest military powers, we are still saying that the United States alone represents about as much power in its first place potential and military strength as the nine that followed, obviously, there are many aspects of this, but this is how it is still calculated, although in recent years there have been very serious reorganizations in this order, and unfortunately, the Member States of the European Union, if we still bring Britain here, I can say that it is to the strong detriment of the Member States of the European Union. In this situation, in 97, the system in which issues governing the extra team movement and residence of the United States military outside NATO were resolved was based on a contract concluded before our accession to NATO and to the EU. As has been said, the United States indicated in 2017 that it would like to renew this. There are many reasons for this, and once again, there is an acceptable reason why the Treaty reflects the state of accession to NATO and to the EU, and of course it is acceptable that after 20 years much changes are made in military areas as well, so we believe that there is no obstacle to the renewal of this Treaty. In our opinion, however, it is simple to say that it is transparent and distasteful, what the government has done in this case before signing. The prince of sovereignty we've heard here is much more modest, but before that, at long, large press conferences and announcements, that practically the government's hands are tied, and I'm not sure we'll succeed in this renewal, we think, knowing the operation of the Orbán government, that it didn't mention anything other than that they tried to make a run at the United States, they ran a lap. That this is why Viktor Orbán could smile at a family photograph with President Trump, or rather the one-billion-dollar military procurement announced, which Hungarian taxpayers will pay at the end of the day, will probably never be revealed. But let us say, my fellow Members, that there has not been a real constitutional, sovereignty issue in this matter, and the greatest admission that it has not been raised, is what was said here in the main speech or in the ministerial exposé as an argument that, in its construction, this treaty is virtually nothing different than the Treaty concluded in 97. Nothing! And the fact that there is a reference in the treaty to the fact that, while respecting the Hungarian Fundamental Law, this treaty will be signed, and then the Americans will be given different privileges here to allow their army to operate smoothly, well, fellow Members, because if we do not sign it, then will we not? So if we do not include this sentence, will the Americans or the Hungarian party not comply with the Hungarian Fundamental Law and Hungarian Law? It's very clear and very clear that this was a political attempt, which, in all likelihood, I also say, I don't know when it's gonna come out, but they just bounced off the American side, so they probably have some lawyers around them who could tell them that. We don't know what's necessary, we don't understand. However, there are some fundamental issues that even you claim to be sacred and inviolable, such as the security of the country, including the fact that our NATO membership benefits Hungarian citizens in all respects. Then we don't know why we have to mess with toys like this. Zsolt Németh's keynote speech made me think of a few things, although I would have liked very much to give a basic speech about a simple, pathetic, huge national cooperation, but things have been said from the mouth of Zsolt Németh, to which one must react, because either he disagrees with him, and that is either completely fine or objectively not true, and then it must be adjusted. I'd like to start with the first one. Mr Németh has devoted a great deal of time to Trump, to American foreign and internal politics, and I do not know what this proposal has to do with it, and the point is that the two countries have to work together across governments in military territory, and this has been and must be the case in the future, but he has hit my ear when he said how important Central Europe is to the new US administration, and that his second journey to Warsaw could have been Budapest. No, it could not have been Budapest, Mr Németh, and you know exactly that it could not have been Budapest. [[Zsolt Németh: I don't know!]] And you probably also know that the appreciation of the Central European region, for example, during the Trump administration, is mainly due to the fact that the United States is starting to take the Russian threat seriously not only in its own country, but also in its allies. Now, given Hungary's two-lubbed policy on this issue in recent years, I think that there was absolutely no way that this speech could have been spoken in Budapest, and the real reason for this is the way the government has behaved in this area in recent years. Yes, as a member of the Defence Committee, as former Vice-President of the National Security Committee and as a member of the National Security Committee, I can say that there have indeed been many cases in recent times, Mr Németh, related to the concrete activities of the Government, which raised very serious doubts about Hungary's commitment to security in an allied country, whether in the United States or in the Western European Union, in our allies. And I'm not going through these cases right now, and we know exactly what this is about, the Russian influence, the in and out of the Russian secret services, the cooperation with the far right, and the rest, they're all in on it, and I think that there are things, like this, which we're discussing today, in which no one should just take separate paths. What you have told me about defence spending and the state of the Hungarian Defence Service, Mr Németh, I am obliged to correct it because either your colleagues have written you a very bad story, or I don't know if you have entered the wrong Google address, the fact is something very, very far from what you said. You said that in 2010 or 2010, our defence spending in proportion to GDP simply did not happen; these are numbers, Mr Secretary of State. Here's the situation: it was 1,14, so the last time in 2010 was over 1 percent of the defence spending, and then for long, long years under the Fidesz government it went down. The lowest point was in 2015, Mr. honourable Member, when a certain 0.7 percent occurred, and when, by the way, the Minister of Defence, Csaba Hende, was dismissed by Viktor Orbán, and when, by the way, after the Welsh summit, the Hungarian government also apparently began to take its own Hungarian army seriously under American and international pressure. Until then, it was only decay and destruction, Mr Secretary of State, between 2010 and 15. I do not claim that everything had been on the bottom of the table before, but the fact that in the year of the 2010 crisis, it was significantly higher than the part of the Hungarian budget for defence than it was then during the next five years is simply a fact, and it is also a fact that this year it has reached 1.2 percent again. So we can say about nine years after 2010, we are now at the point where we were spending GDP in 2010, and this is clearly seen in the state of the defence, obviously this was all that could be achieved but that there were further degradations, capacity-buildings, disappearances. Let's just remember the helicopter procurement ring, that the defense minister took the sacred oath in 13th, and called a five-party or six-party party, that the helicopters are almost here, and then maybe we'll have something nine years or five years later. [[11.40]] I will not go into it for long, I just want to say that I think it was a waste to bring this issue here in a proposal where, by the way, I think, at least I hope there will be a complete consensus on the vote between the parliamentary parties, and it was certainly a shame to bring this issue here without being able to hit the numbers. Finally, Minister, you spoke to me personally just now, and I took it personally, obviously, because I have expressed a loud displeasure during your speech. Yeah, he asked me if I had a nursery. I had one, Minister. And I had parents, you know, who taught me not to lie. Minister, when you put completely untrue things in the mouth of your debate partner in a ministerial term, things that have not been said, so that you know exactly that you cannot respond to them, then there is a genre in Parliament that you have no other means to yell at. I would say, Minister, specifically. No one here, no one, claimed that we were questioning the Macedonian people's decision to elect Gruevski. However, I say now, Minister, that you are questioning and even ignoring the judgment of the Macedonian court. No one's yelling about Gruevski because we're letting a ten-year-old prime minister into the country. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: He's a criminal!]] It is because he has been convicted, not accused, not first degree, finalized, of corruption cases; it is said in the judgment of a future NATO court that you do not consider to be valid. We simply cannot accept that, Minister. He claimed, objectively, that's what he said with his own mouth, and it has been said many times that the authority independent of the government has decided on the Gruevski case. Don't be ridiculous, Minister. The Immigration and Migration Office is a government body controlled directly by the Ministry of Interior. Government agency under the direction, direction and supervision of the Minister of the Interior. It's not even pretense independent, like the D.A.'s office, for example. It's a government agency, specifically. Finally, Minister, I understand what you have said, and I see that you are proud to do so. It's your decision to hire a convicted felon as your chief and most trusted advisor. That's your job. Some people like to surround themselves with criminals and seek advice from them, and others are likely to seek counsel elsewhere. That is what has been said here today, but I believe that it is you and not the opposition representatives here. Returning to the proposal itself: we support the proposal, we also said at the committee's meeting that we support both of the proposals, as there is nothing other than the renewal of the treaty that has been in place since 1997, which maintains the same state of law, sovereignty and all other aspects. The decision of the Hungarian Parliament continues to guarantee sovereignty, as this law shows. Without the decision of the Hungarian Parliament, real team movements and real US military operations affecting Hungarian sovereignty cannot and have not been done in Hungary in the future. This guarantees our sovereignty, and we are pleased that this treaty will be implemented in this form. Thank you so much for listening.
u2019-06-13-50	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Ágnes Vadai, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2019-06-13-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by saying that, on behalf of myself and the Democratic Coalition faction, I welcome the fact that the Parliament supports these two proposals today, and, of course, as we said earlier, in the case of international treaties, the Democratic Coalition is giving its support to the proposals. In these two cases, we will also support this proposal. It's a special pleasure for me to end a year-and-a-half princess. The Defence and Police Committee has already discussed this proposal, and the Minister has also spoken about it, and it is still apparent that the proposal was focused on the issue of sovereignty, which was indeed, then much more vehemently, perhaps a little more modestly spoken of by pro-government representatives. I would like to inform my fellow Members that voting in favour of this treaty by the Democratic Coalition faction does not in any way mean that we consider the one-party Fundamental Law adopted by you to be adopted. We understand that you have this American party entered into the international treaty, this bilateral treaty, but the Democratic Coalition considers that one-party constitution to be unchanged illegitimate, and will do everything in its power to throw this Fundamental Law away as soon as possible, and to adopt a Fundamental Law that will obviously lead to these amendments which will truly represent the unity of the nation. This Fundamental Law does not represent the unity of the nation, this Fundamental Law only represents you and only you, and it is not even certain that it fully represents the Fidesz people sitting here, only part of Fidesz's policy. As my fellow Member, Mr Harangozó, has already spoken about this, this agreement has lasted for a year and a half because of you, for what has been said; it has obviously been thought that you can legitimise this Fundamental Law. Don't think that, fellow Members. We are voting in favour of these legislative proposals because we consider it extremely important that the treaty with the leading country in the free world has been concluded earlier, because it is perhaps perhaps now ripe to review and transform it according to changed circumstances, so that such a defence cooperation with the most important and leading country in the free world can be achieved. This has nothing to do with Hungarian sovereignty, it has nothing to do with what you are talking about here, it has nothing to do with common sense. As has been said here earlier in the speeches, this was an agreement that existed before Hungary's accession to NATO. The continuation of this is essentially in Hungary's national interest. I say to my fellow Member, Mr Turi-Kovács: this is, for example, a national interest, and I think that you also support it because you consider it important to achieve the national interest. It has to be made clear that the last year and a half of the Prince's war, which has resulted in the signing and negotiation of these two treaties, was only good for one thing, so that it could be shown by the government that obstacles could be raised to the signing of such agreements in order to reach the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and, of course, in some way, we do not know the price, but that Viktor Orbán can finally meet the President of the United States. Zsolt Németh said it was a great comfort to him [[Zsolt Németh: Relieve!]] That there's a new administration. I am interested in one thing: how much your relief costs to Hungarian taxpayers. He then talked about whether, indeed, due to the discussions, there could be a change or progress in the mid-range anti-aircraft missile system. My fellow Members and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Péter Szijjártó, have also spoken about this, obviously, as a framework for such defence cooperation for further cooperation. We consider this very important. Several times in recent years, at the meeting of the Defence and Police Committee, we have called for closer cooperation with NATO Member States, and we have called for defence procurement. And I do not claim that Zsolt Németh is not telling the truth at the plenary session, because he is not like that, obviously he was wrong about the defence budget; this has already been highlighted by my fellow Member, Mr Bellozó. I think we should now overlook the rise in your claim that the Hungarian Defence budget was 0.7 percent in 2010. It's just not like that. Let us consider how high such an agreement, which I think is extremely important for Hungary, was when discussing what state you believe the Hungarian Defence Office was in in 2010. But I simply have to respond to these questions and talk about them, especially because I am personally involved, not only because I was the Secretary of State for Defence at this time, but because I can count the number of Members on about one hand, and I have included myself, who have been dealing with the matter of defence in this house regularly and for a long time. That is why it was good that not only Minister of Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó came to the Defence and Defence Committee, but also the Minister of Defence, who informed us about this convention. I'm sure President Lajos Kósa will come by Schengen. Come to the National Defence and Police Committee meeting more often, and you will see what questions we discuss there. [[11.50]] However, I am truly sorry that, although the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is the author, there is no representative of the defence portfolio here, whether the minister or the secretary of state, because he could certainly talk about how much the governments of that time spent on GDP in the period before 2010 and, of course, this applies to you, because from 2001 onwards, even earlier, and how much your government spent on the military between 2010 and 2018. The biggest problem with the development of forces was that the results that we achieved were really very difficult to achieve by 2010... and not only because it was a crisis, but because you have concluded a contract with the Swedes in the Gripen case which is not yet public today, but I really hope that it will be public one day and that voters will see the payment schedule, and you will see the amendment that Csaba Hende concluded because obviously there were no funds available in the wallet budget to pay the rent. So, what you have done between 98 and 2002 with regard to force reform can be compressed in one sentence, and Viktor Orbán, then Prime Minister, said this at a task-making meeting; namely, that he does not want to see Russian military technology. As a result, for example, the purchase of fighter planes was launched, which was not really clear how it happened today, why Gripen ended up and why we did not buy the fighter planes from the Americans, which were then supported by both political and military leaders of the defence purse. After 2002, he was evidently born with this serious legacy, and the Hungarian government spent more than 1 percent on defence expenditure, according to the country's capacity. Indeed, as it was said here, after 2010 and that year there was no 0.7 percent of the spending on GDP, but the budget for the defence portfolio fell spectacularly over 1 percent, and it fell because the Hungarian government and the Hungarian Prime Minister in particular did not consider the development of forces to be important. After that, it is not surprising that the Hungarian Defence Office has constantly lost its abilities, and then when they realized that there is no plane, no helicopter, no transport machine, there is almost nothing, and that Russian technology is going to fail, they started to spend without reason. Before the elections, and obviously you are aware of this in the spirit of great force development, which, I would just like to improve, bears the name of the program... I'm just telling you, this program is like Columbo's wife, we always talk about it, but no one's ever seen it. 'Cause you know, Congressman, the Members sitting in this room, that the programme Zrínyi 2026, is such a color-scented publication, that's all. This was presented to the defence wallet at the meeting of the Defence and Police Committee, and the program is central to the Hungarian soldiers and Hungarian citizens that we are developing everything at the same time. This was achieved, at least on paper, because István Simicskó, the former Minister, made a request for exemption from public procurement in the Defence and Police Committee before last year's elections. Obviously, the proposal itself cannot be discussed, it is secret, but I will not reveal too much of a secret if I say that they have asked for permission to exempt hundreds of billions of forints of public procurement, essentially for comprehensive purposes, and not for specific marking. Needless to say, the pro-government majority has supported this procurement, and since then, my fellow Members, the big deal is that, as I do, you and the members of the Defence and Police Committee, although I do not see a member of the Defence and Police Committee here in the pro-government ranks, we are informed of the procurements from the press. So the fact that Leopard ordered a combat vehicle 2 by the Hungarian Defence Office, 44 pieces which will be delivered later, but 12 used ones have been purchased since then, was learned from the press by the Defence and Police Committee. That they bought two A319 Airbuss from Air Berlin, we learned that from the press. They said it was a transporter, but it turned out to be a steering machine. That there are 2 Dassault Falcon 7x business jets owned by the Hungarian Defence Agency, we also learned this from the press, and one of the business jets turned out to be HM EI Zrt. He bought it. And then, when I asked for the leadership of the defence wallet to show them, because the Hungarian Defence Office's ability may have been somewhat restored in the last nine years, the simple answer I and the Defence and Police Committee have received is that these devices cannot be viewed. In the meantime, it turned out that these four machines were indeed owned by the defence wallet and owned by the company owned by the defence wallet, but they are not for defence purposes. These, fellow Members, are government machines. Now, it is not the subject of the debate that we need a steering machine or not, but I would like to say that what you account for as spending, such as the cost of these four machines, is not for defence purposes, but for government purposes only. So much so that it happened during your administration that there were already two pieces of Abus, but the freedom soldiers had to be brought home from abroad by chartered transporter from Ukraine, because there was no Airbus, because someone was flying with it, obviously for defence purposes. I would also like to inform you that the former great anti-Russianism, which described the Hungarian Prime Minister at that time between 98 and 2002, has now become so friendly that we have managed to renovate five Mi-17 helicopters for 5.2 billion forints. While my fellow Member, Mr Harangozó, referred to this, in essence, less than a year after the 2010 term, the then Minister of Defence kept talking about the Hungarian government's commitment to spend 160 billion forints on helicopter procurement in order to improve cooperation with the various allies. I think that I was one of the happiest members of the Defence and Police Commission, because I knew that there was a need to buy helicopters, and not only the Hungarian Army, but obviously the police and disaster management, perhaps even the National Rescue Service. This presentation, ladies and gentlemen, has been heard every year. Every year we heard from Csaba Hende that we only have to sleep a few more, now the helicopters are coming, and this thing is about to be solved, which ended with the fact that, of course, in 2018, there was a company that would have done it for less, and for 5.2 billion HUF, the government restored five Mi-17 helicopters. We're happy with every purchase. Personally, I think and perhaps this is the case in which we agree that there must be a national consensus on the direction of development of the Hungarian Defence Forces, because this is the army of all of us. But there is no way to argue on these issues. It is clear that, after 2010, the development direction of the Hungarian Defence Forces was, if at all, but, in essence, it was not possible to talk about any development until 2016-2017, between 2010-16, but even in 17 it was not very territorial. But I think that when we talk about NATO, when we talk about cooperation with other countries, and especially when we talk about cooperation with the United States of America, it is worth dealing with another area in addition to the protection of the territory, this is cyber security. It is no coincidence, perhaps Minister for Foreign Affairs, that he will say a few words about the Huawei case, which, in this defence cooperation, is not involved, but obviously we know that defence cooperation does not only cover territorial issues, especially NATO. You may remember, fellow Members, in this House, in a speech before the agenda, I spoke about the Russian virus exterminator Kaspersky Lab. Then the Members sitting here, including the competent Fidesz member of the government who answered my question, responded poorly. Then not a little time passed, and the Kaspersky Lab virus exterminator program was put out, wiped off the Members of Parliament's laptop, and even when I asked that question, there was a ministry that knew precisely that this Russian-owned virus exterminator was more precisely the Russian company, which produced this antivirus, should not be used on a Hungarian machine. [[12.00]] You may remember, fellow Members, when Yandex, another Russian company called Yandex, came up in the context of a national consultation, which ran in the background on the website of the national consultation. I'm sure you've read the news that the Russian Secret Service has requested information from Yandex. So when we talk about defence cooperation, and I think that you may have listened to what happened in the United States of America, because you are quite prepared, especially Zsolt Németh, because he is leading the Committee on Foreign Affairs, for the United States of America and for our allies, cyber security is a very important issue. It's a very important question. And you can see the direction in which the attacks on the free world, against the choices of the free world, and then maybe against the strategically important institutions of the free world. Our job, regardless of party standing, is to warn the defence wallet, for example, that it is very important that, if they acquire different tools, they also deal with cyber security issues. This, I think, is particularly important for the United States of America in the case of Huawei. I would like to make it clear that the United States of America is really paying attention to this region, so much so, and here is the place for advertising that Hungarian journalists have until 24 June to apply for the HUF 198 million fund announced by the US State Department for investigative journalists to investigate corruption cases. We can give you a tip here, too, but if someone comes into the Parliament meeting, I think you'll get a pretty quick tip about which direction to look at. I don't see György Simonka, but these directions almost give way to investigating corruption cases, but István Tiborcz's cases can also be investigated. [[István Happy and Sándor F Kovács constantly intervene.]] In Hungarian, you are right, MEP Zsolt Németh, when he says that Central and Eastern Europe is important for the U.S. foreign affairs, because, for example, this tender to help independent Hungarian media is being announced once again. In addition, another $770 million fund will be formed to strengthen democracies in Eastern Europe and Asia, and news reports that even Radio Free Europe will be re-launched in Hungary. I think this is a bit critical, but perhaps Zsolt Németh thinks that this will expand the palette of the US State Department, because if everything works as well here as you say, then they may not want to spend on Radio Free Europe, because it will bring back the years before the 1990s for at least a few people, perhaps a little older than me. I would like to make it clear that the Democratic Coalition, as I have indicated, will, of course, vote in favour of this bill and the related other proposal. But I would also like to make it clear that this does not in any way mean that Hungary's Fundamental Law, which you have adopted, would not be considered legitimate at all. And everything, as we have said to supplement our oath, will be done to ensure that this Fundamental Law can be repealed as soon as possible. However, I would like to urge that, on the one hand, in the future, there should be transparent defence purchases in Hungary, because this could be a topic, for example. But I would also suggest that, if there is an investigative journalist who thinks it is possible to examine the defence procurements around corruption or at least mystery, because all such procurements that have been done so far should perhaps be dealt with there, and this is once again the place of advertising, with Mr Maróth Gáspár, who is very active in these matters. So, I would suggest that this is an important issue in defence cooperation in terms of the positive perception of the United States of America and also of Hungary, because the United States of America wants to support these things with resources, and I think it is a very good idea. The less so is that Kecskemét airport is included in the proposal. I have to say, the biggest shame is what you did with Kecskemét Airport when you made Hungary's military airport a mixed use so that the leaders of the Mercedes factory could land there for nothing else. Nothing else. And I would like to say to you, fellow Members, that Lajos Kósa, Chairman of the Defence and Police Committee, when this proposal was first brought to the meeting of the Defence and Police Committee, did not support this presentation of the defence wallet, and even asked the Ministry not to present such a proposal, since Kecskemét Airport is essentially the military airport, the Hungarian military airport. What we consider very important is that we preserve the integrity of that airport. It seems that I say to Mr Turi-Kovács that the Hungarian national and Hungarian military interests have been overwritten by the interests of the Mercedes factory. I do not agree with this, nor do I agree with the fact that basically the defence wallet has been entrusted with the solution of mixed exploitation, so all environmental issues, including, by the way, and I consider it important that the collection of protected animals is also the responsibility of the defence portfolio. There is no Ministry of Environment, although it might be that the authorities of the Ministry of Environment are doing this very important thing and not the soldiers, but at least they are paying attention to the environment, protected animals and protected flowers at Kecskemét airport. However, I would like, for example, the representatives sitting here to be partners, especially those who consider national and Hungarian military interests to be important, in order to preserve the airport in Kecskemét only and exclusively as a military airport. I think it's an extremely important question. The Democratic Coalition will therefore support the proposals, and we hope that if this type of proposal again, we will not have to wait a year and a half, and that neither the American party, nor the Hungarian party, nor the United States of America, nor the people of Hungary will have to wait for it to pass by a year and a half, this will be achieved more quickly, because, as has been said, this proposal is essentially based on the previous proposal, and a little sovereignty purport was added in order for the US Foreign Minister to arrive here. I think, at the end of the day, I will say once again, the only question will be, what was the price of this, and what is the price that Hungarian taxpayers will have to pay for it: only 1 billion dollars in medium-range missile defense systems, or there will indeed be another $1 billion to be heard about, to buy new fighter planes. I sincerely hope that these issues will be examined by the Defence and Police Committee, but also by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, because it is in the national interest that the Hungarian Defence Forces should develop and actively participate in NATO's activities; that this defence agreement should truly fulfil its role on both sides, on both sides. This requires spending an appropriate amount, and although things are not born in a manger, they are in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and they are so good that there are representatives here, even on the pro-government side, who are a little bit used to dealing with these matters and talking to them. I would call on my fellow Members to say that if there is a national matter, it is an army matter. Because if there's a problem, the army's going to help everyone, no matter who they vote for. Of course, it must be made clear that there are people who obviously do not understand the essence of this thing, who are here in Parliament to fill the space, they are capable of doing so. I sincerely hope that this question... The great truth is, I would like to propose that the next time such a proposal is made, such a proposal is submitted by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, then consult with pro-government representatives, because it would have been possible to avoid this debate if the previous speeches by the lead speaker were not based on a lie or, better case, a mistake or a deliberate misunderstanding. This is an important agreement, an important proposal for Hungary's values and interests, which will be supported by the Democratic Coalition. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of DK and MSZP.]]
u2019-06-13-52	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I would like to point out to Mrs President: we are not interrupting, I have not interrupted, I have complied with the rule, but I think that environmental protection, animal protection and a lot of things have not been the subject of the speech. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Because the defense...]] I was forced to tell you that now, following the unwritten rule. Thank you. Dear Parliament, Since Brenner Koloman has arrived... [[Dr. Brenner Koloman:]] She doesn't want to, all right. I now announce that we have reached the end of the speaker's speeches. There will now be further speeches by Members. I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi, Jobbik Group. Here you go. [[12.10]]
u2019-06-13-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/6348. Bill No. 1 includes the publication of the Defence Cooperation Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the United States of America. In conjunction with this, the Government of Hungary and the Government of the United States of America, at the same time as the publication of the Defence Cooperation Agreement, it is necessary to grant the public licence necessary for the implementation of the Agreement, which will be granted by H/6354. This Decision is addressed to the Member States. In the agreement, the introduction states that the presence of the US armed forces in Hungary can take place in Hungary with the approval of Hungary, with full respect for Hungary's Fundamental Law and other Hungarian laws. However, Article XXX of the Agreement shall apply. The Parties shall inform each other that the procedures necessary for the entry into force of this Agreement, including the authorisations necessary for the presence and activity under this Agreement, have been carried out. Consequently, for the entry into force of the agreement, it is also necessary to grant a public licence on the Hungarian side. This condition is fulfilled under Article 47 of the Fundamental Law only if the Parliament and the Government grant the necessary permissions before the agreement enters into force. To this end, with Parliament's approval of the agreement, a parliamentary decision is necessary, which provides for stationing and, on the other hand, a government decision authorising the United States to move a team. The proposal for a resolution concerns the granting of this parliamentary authorisation. Hungary and the United States of America are members of NATO, and there have been countless agreements between the two countries that have strengthened cooperation between the two countries. The North Atlantic Treaty Organisation was established by a Convention signed in Washington on 4 April 1949, and the agreements signed on 19 June 1951 and 23 August 1953 in London extended the cooperation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation with regard to the Member States. Hungary has been a member of NATO since 12 March 1999, and the agreement between the United States and Hungary on the protection of classified military information entered into force on 16 May 1995. With our NATO membership, all agreements concluded before 1999 with NATO have become binding on our country. The Procurement and Cross-Service Convention signed with the United States on 26 November and 10 December 2014 has further played a significant role in enabling Hungary and the United States to cooperate as effectively as possible in the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. This Convention goes beyond the previous framework and complements the previous conventions with the systems that allow the US armed forces and their relatives to benefit from more favourable treatment during their stay in Hungary. In addition, a broader framework will apply to the presence of their businesses in Hungary. U.S. armed forces, relatives and entrepreneurs may enter certain areas and objects for visits, training, exercises, military movements, passage, support and related activities, fuelling aircraft and vehicles, landing, repairing aircraft, temporary maintenance of vehicles, ships, aircraft, accommodation of persons, accommodation of various supplies, and countless other activities that are essential for the service of the military defence system. The Convention introduces the Hungarian executive agent, who helps US armed forces and entrepreneurs enter areas and facilities owned or privately owned by Hungary, the municipalities. In this case, it is not necessary to pay the United States for the use of the territories. The Convention also introduces provisions on the deployment of protective equipment and materials. Technically, this Convention gives the United States unrestricted access to the installation and use of the necessary areas. In this agreement, Hungary undertakes to provide full logistical support for the movement and activities of the United States in Hungary within NATO, providing all means necessary for this purpose. The Convention specifically deals with the issue of possible criminal jurisdiction, detention and visitation in the event of criminal offences committed by one of the US residents within the NATO framework. The convention regulates claims for damages, the discipline required, the tax exemptions for official purposes. It also provides for a personal exemption for items imported into our country for use under the Convention to the armed forces of the United States. The Convention provides for a very wide range of additional concessions on the status of military participants and entrepreneurs. The two countries already signed on 14 May 1997 and entered into force on 23 June 1997 on a similar subject. This Agreement will now expire and this extended, full agreement will enter into force between the Parties. We can only hope that this agreement was not needed quickly because Hungary, with Russia, has created diplomatic and various official protection preferential opportunities for the Russian Investment Bank with the recently signed and ratified agreement, which led Hungary to believe that it should compensate the United States. Hungary must clearly determine that in federal systems it only enters into agreements which do not in any way violate or threaten the sovereignty of our country. This agreement can be used and abused. It is in our country's interest to maintain a balanced relationship with everyone, but no relationship should violate the quality of our cooperation with other countries and not create a situation where we are vulnerable in our own country. In the hope that both parties will comply with this agreement and do not abuse it, Jobbik will support the ratification of the agreement with its vote. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-13-54	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Béla Turi-Kovács, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-06-13-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, In 1956 and after 56 for me, and I think for many of us, there was no other purpose than neutrality that seemed to be available. This would have been the ideal state in which we had hoped for, and we thought that a neutral state for Hungary could bring about the kind of development that kept us locked away for centuries. However, the world has changed enormously, from a bipolar world to a multipolar world that has remained unipolar for a very short period of time, which has led to the fact that today there are no forces under which it would be possible for any country alone to maintain its sovereignty in a neutral state. I was surprised, however, to admit that when it came to a socialist part and then to some kind of sovereignty hump on DK's part, perhaps an unnecessary mention of sovereignty. This treaty and any treaty that seeks to secure Hungary internationally is the only and sensible goal of defending the sovereignty of the country. I cannot imagine any other meaningful purpose except to defend the sovereignty of the country for which we maintain the army, which has been spoken so many times, which serves the purpose of allowing Hungarians to live freely within the country. It's his only real purpose. If this treaty did not guarantee the sovereignty of the country, if it had not guaranteed the sovereignty of the country, it should not have been concluded. This is why I consider it so important that Article I (2) of the Treaty states so clearly:. The obligations of the Parties under this Agreement and the implementing agreements should be without prejudice to international law either to the territorial sovereignty and sovereignty of the Parties over their armed forces or to the right of the Parties to self-defence. - Yes, Your Honour. - Yes, Your Honor. That's the point of a contract, and it's also a guarantee. I am convinced that without this Hungary should not have concluded such a contract. [[12.20]] Is this guarantee going to work? Yes, I think it is, because this should apply within contractual leave and within the protection of contracts. When Hungary decides to give up a certain degree of sovereignty in order to achieve greater security and guarantee greater security, I think it is on the right track. However, the protection of this must be guaranteed in a contract, and this guarantees it. I am asking you, however, how do you imagine, from the opposition side, with these speeches, what is the purpose of this treaty? Maybe the sovereignty of the United States? We don't have to guarantee that they guarantee themselves. What purpose would it serve, if not for Hungary to be a safe and sovereign country? I therefore believe that these guarantee elements of the treaty should not be forgotten, and these should be kept in the spotlight. There is no good relationship, the excellent international relationship that does not require us to constantly and regularly see and monitor how foreign troops, for example, are moving within the country. This is a fundamental issue, and I believe that the Treaty provides all that Hungary needs in this regard. That is why the negotiations had to be negotiated, which is why the negotiations had to be conducted effectively. Today, the kind of proposals that wish to raise suspicions that Hungary has given something else in order to achieve this opportunity to become American troops in Hungary, so that it can conclude this contract at all, I believe that these are not only air-borne assumptions, but also can not be regarded as bona fide. After all, there has not been any proven action that, in order to conclude the contract, there has been any legal surrender on our part. On the contrary, rights have been guaranteed. And I must say that a country like our country, such a medium-sized European country, has done everything in its power to preserve the sovereignty it has been able to maintain in the future. In my view, it must be made clear that within a multipolar world, the real danger is now the real danger and clearly the danger that must be overcome is terrorism. And terrorism doesn't appear in one place, not in a concentrated place, but throughout the world. On the other hand, the development of forces in any smaller or larger country is not sufficient. It requires a uniform force with which Hungary received guarantees when it joined NATO, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, additional safeguards with this treaty. Personally, I think that Hungary's security would be greatly enhanced if the European Union finally took the step to have an army of its own. The European Union would definitely need its own army, I believe. I find it an amazing situation that a huge 500 million-dollar conglomerate stands in the world without an army. We could say that, of course, because he's a member of NATO. Well, yeah, yeah, we can say that, but we all know it can't replace the army. Therefore, I believe that this treaty is in the interests of Hungary today under the circumstances and can therefore be supported. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-13-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2019-06-13-57	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As many have already said, I would like to state that this agreement is correct and good, so it is important that the Hungarian Government renews this 1997 Treaty. Therefore, the MSZP, as has already been said, will support this draft law. Let me signal one to Minister, two things, to be exact. One is that I miss the members of the Defence Committee a little bit here in the debate from the Fidesz MEPs, because Minister started his exposé because this proposal came to the Defence Committee and was discussed there, and this was not the case in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, while it may also have foreign policy significance, but I fully understand the approach, but as I look around here, Zsolt Németh, who spoke, who is a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, or Mr Aradski, who is a member of the Legislative Committee. So it seems that the Fidesz members of the Defence Committee, while they are the best at this topic, especially if I was thinking of Lajos Kósa, might have been a good place to be at least present, since it is this priority committee that deals with this issue. However, we from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Zsolt Németh, myself and Gyula Molnár are also happy to participate in this debate, although he is a very incompetent Member. The other point that I would like to draw your attention to is that of the previous item on the agenda, and I would therefore like to ask the Minister, in conjunction with this item on the agenda, not to put something in our mouth in his reply that we have not said. This is what my colleague Tamás Harangozó talked about. So when you answer, since we are no longer able to respond to the ministerial closing, then make sure that you insist that what we have actually said responds to, not to what you might have wanted to hear from us. The other: do not do such a thing as asking us to account for two other countries arguing with each other, and why we do not enter that debate. Why the Dutch didn't support the Ukrainian Treaty, I'm sorry, let it be Ukraine and the Netherlands. We are Hungarian representatives, we are dealing with the issues of Hungarian government, Hungarian Parliament and Hungarian politics, not with the debate of other countries, as you then said we should not be more North Macedonian than Northern Macedonian. The third is, however, I would ask you to answer the questions that we have asked. On the previous item, I asked the Minister some questions, to which he did not answer. I do not want to put this item on the agenda now, so the Minister will be given these questions as a written question, so he will have the opportunity to answer them. But if we're going to ask you a question right now, do me a favor and you're not going to smear the answer. He also said that you like to speak honestly, that you are not addicted to political correctness, and that you are bravely expressing your opinion, while the other foreign ministers are whining like a baby in kindergarten, instead of doing it for their own good. He said that the foreign ministers in Brussels were whining instead of taking action. Then let's be honest. It seems to me that in many cases, when it comes to NATO, you are talking nonsense. In 2014 the Prime Minister said that only NATO can guarantee the security of Hungary, which we agree with. Then, four years later, the Prime Minister said that the security of Hungary cannot be based on NATO. Then a little later at a festive memorial, I think, maybe in Poland he said that NATO's role would be appreciated. You really should be a man who can follow the role the Prime Minister intends to play or what weight he thinks about NATO, because on the basis of these statements, it is very difficult to get to grips on this issue. [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks.]] Happy Congressman, there's a button in front of you, and if you press it, you get a word from the president, and you can talk. I am sure that as Vice-President of the Committee on Budgets, you have a deep knowledge of the subject, and if you would share it with us, it would be a great honor. Just as Minister asked my fellow Member not to yell, then allow me, in order to avoid double standards, to ask you to press a button, to speak, and then we can answer it, if that is the case, so that we may avoid double standards in this Parliament. And I hope, Mr Speaker, that Mr President-in-Office will also give the Member a warning about this. So if we are speaking so sincerely, I have to say that it is very difficult to follow the way the Prime Minister talks about a foreign policy relationship. And this is not only true of NATO, it is true not only of the United States, but also of Russia. We remember when, as opposition party president, the Prime Minister talked about the proliferation of Putin's finches in Europe, saying that Hungary could not be the happiest barracks of Gazprom, he said that Hungary should actually look for its allies in the West, not in the East, and indeed, if I remember correctly, in his first prime minister's term he did not visit Russia, he did not attend an official visit to Moscow and he spoke Hungarian: he was completely different to this question. And now we see that all of a sudden this Prime Minister's thinking has turned into a huge Russian friendship. [[12.30]] They call it a peacock dance, I'd call it a shake. But anyway, the point is the same: sometimes they think that way, so, as I see it, in many cases, the position is determined by the sitting point. I also remember when we were talking about the negotiation of any Russian gas pipeline, the South Stream, then Zsolt Németh criticized it very sharply, they ran to the United States to report the Hungarian government at the time, we went to explain, of course, how we thought we did. Now, it seems that these problems have disappeared, and since then the new Orbán government has not had a problem with the South Stream or anyone else, but only when the Gyurcsány government has initiated or suggested participating in this. The other, if it were an honest speech, I would say to Zsolt Németh and to Congressman Aradski that, in order to interpret NATO as having a golden age in Trump's era, and how terrible it was before that, because the American presidents were so stupid and ill-mannered about NATO, but now that Trump has everything in its place... well, please, just read what Trump said about NATO. He was talking about it being an outdated organization. He spoke about the fact that the US will not guarantee the security of Hungary or Hungary, but of countries that do not fulfil their obligations. At the time you said that, it is good that five or six countries, by the way, have completed the 2 percent expenditure level of the 29th. Let me give you another example: not so long ago, Congress, the House of Representatives, together with Republican and Democratic party representatives, made a decision to counterbalance the communication that Trump is conducting on NATO, which was about standing up for NATO's importance, and how important this defence alliance is to guarantee international and world peace and freedom. I suppose, if it were so clear in the Trump era that he was committed to NATO, then it would probably not be necessary to adopt such US House resolutions. The other is that there is no NATO discussion, there is almost no rapporteur's report or debate within the framework of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly where Russia and China are not mentioned in some form, such that the activities of countries give rise to minimum concerns on the part of NATO members or on the part of the United States. This is important because Hungary appears among these debates in some way as a country which does not have a clear and clear position on this issue. Ágnes Vadai talked about cyber security or various disinformation warfare or other issues, and it is very interesting that Hungary is reluctant to participate in this, too. I also asked the Secretary of State and his colleagues when we would join the centres in Finland, which are fighting against them. At the time, they said that these negotiations were under way, that we may have already succeeded, I don't know, but I haven't heard about it in the last few weeks or months. So it seems to me that Hungary is not clear when it comes to value orientation, and many people think that the communication and foreign policy of Hungary is, in some respects, not transparent or at least not predictable when it comes to NATO alliance partnership. It is therefore no coincidence that Hungarian foreign policy is often criticised both in terms of Russian relations and in terms of Chinese relations. Zsolt Németh spoke of the majority decision. If I may, I would like to add a thought to that, in a positive sense. I fully agree with you that it is not a good direction in the European Union if you want to switch to a majority decision. I think that, because some prime ministers abuse the fact that there is consensus making, that is no reason to change this process. I think it is right for every country to have an equal word in the votes of the European Union. So I am quite certain, although I cannot add too much to this, but I support that this new change cannot be achieved in any way, but that consensus decision-making should indeed remain at the level of the European Union, as is indeed evident with regard to NATO. One more thought: many praised the Trump-Orbán meeting for what a fantastic event this is. It is indeed historical, because for the first time in a very long time, Hungarian Prime Minister was able to meet the American President. The problem we had was that this was a very expensive meeting. While they were very careful not to link the two news to each other, that they were also discussing a very serious purchase of weapons in the background and tried to separate this topic from the Prime Minister's meeting, everyone knows that the fact that the Hungarian government, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and others have said that Hungary is thinking about buying American weapons, and that many things have been discussed here from the missile system through the purchase of fighter jets. This is confirmed by the sentence of the US Ambassador accredited to Hungary, who said in an interview that the Prime Minister said during the trial with Trump that he was a little biased about high-quality American weapons, so the Ambassador hopes that the Prime Minister or, more specifically, Hungary will buy weapons from America. As I look back on history, I remember that the Hungarian Prime Minister, Viktor Orbán, was not so biased in 98 about high-quality U.S. weapons, because at that time, instead of buying the F-16 aircraft presented by the Horn government, Gripens, the Swedish Gripens, decided to take a break from a government meeting. So, then, probably this great commitment and sensitivity to high-quality American weapons has not yet been realised. My fellow Member Béla Turi-Kovács, when he comments, has now left the room, but it is always worth paying attention to what he says, because his life experience, his knowledge and his quality make it compulsory for an opposition representative to listen very carefully to what he says. But I think that right now, on this subject, he only told me half the truth. For a country, sovereignty is indeed very important. It is very important that, if we give up a piece of sovereignty, as he said, in exchange for greater security, then we share these small pieces of sovereignty, for example, within the framework of NATO. I would add that we are doing the same within the framework of the European Union. However, it must not be forgotten that the issue of sovereignty does not always arise only in relation to the European Union, it does not always arise only in relation to NATO, or it does not always arise only in relation to Brussels, as you say, but also in relation to Russia, and it certainly arises against China. After all, today, thank God, they don't occupy tanks, except for a few exceptions, territories, but in many cases with loans, money and various investments. For example, many people consider Chinese investments to be predator investments or predator loans, precisely because it offers the opportunity to gain serious influence. Just as the EU Army must be handled with caution, I would not go into this, but allow me a half sentence. NATO also has soldiers from national armies, so there is no such thing as a separate NATO army. So if we were to duplicate it to become one for the EU, what would actually happen is that the national force should be duplicated in some form. So here we need to be careful how we put it and how we imagine this EU common force. In conclusion, if the vice-president, Mr Aradsk, mentioned József Antall, who played a major role in the success of these Euro-Atlantic integration efforts. I totally agree with that. But let me add, in conclusion, that Miklós Németh and Gyula Horn played a major role in this. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-06-13-58	Thank you, Congressman. Mr. Congressman, the chairman did not hand over the meeting, but if he wants it to be self-limiting, I hope he also understood his own faction of intervention. I trust you will have an impact on your fellow Members within the faction. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade Péter Szijjártó. Here you go, Minister.
u2019-06-13-59	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to some of the comments and comments that have been made, in particular given the fact that, due to an international event, Mr Péter Sztáray will represent the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade for the remainder of the item on the agenda. [[12.40]] Thank you for your support to all parties, given that this has somehow been lost, but all the parties in the Hungarian Parliament have given their support to this agreement. Then, of course, they talked about everything else, and now on this other subject, allow me to make some comments. First of all, at the meeting between the Prime Minister and the President of the United States, I was there and you weren't, so let me inform you that there was no price to pay for the meeting. I don't know, maybe you're on your own, but we're not starting a meeting with a price or a price. You have said a lot about it, and very prestigious and very clever experts have talked a lot about how contemptuous it is for the current Hungarian government that the US President has not met the Prime Minister for a long time. The thing is, we don't consider the American president to be a sports star or not a famous building, so we don't have to meet him to have a photograph, we have to meet him when there's something to discuss. Hungary and the United States are strategic partners and allies to each other, and this was also clear in the discussion that the Prime Minister had with the US President. The limited 10-minute meeting was 40 minutes away, so believe me, there is no price, no compensation, and there should be no such meeting. As regards the possible purchase of weapons and the acquisition of a medium-range missile defence system, we have already negotiated that at the beginning of the year. I'm sure you've been watching the news about the U.S. Secretary of State's visit to Hungary, and we've also held a press conference, and we've said that yes, this is on the agenda, that is to say, the acquisition of the medium-range missile defence system, in order to strengthen the protection of Hungary's critical infrastructure, is a subject. Of course, there is also the United States of America among the potential sources of supply. This was already a topic at the beginning of the year, so selling this, let's say, as a novelty in May, is a daring undertaking. I would also like to tell you that when Congressman Attila Mesterházy talks about what Donald Trump said about NATO, my very respectful request is that it should not fall into the same mistake as the mainstream media here in Europe and the mainstream political elite, because that is not what he said. You have to read the sentence. Donald Trump said that NATO was outdated in the fact that it did not achieve the necessary success in the fight against terrorism or put enough resources on it, something the US President said. Among other things, it would be very difficult to list too many successful NATO actions in the fight against terrorism in advance of the US-established and conducted operation against the Islamic State. So I think we owe it to everyone, not just political actors, not just the President of the United States, to at least quote it accurately. On the issue of energy security, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that we would very much like the United States to play a role in improving energy security in the Central European region, and we would also very much like our allies to play a part in this. Today, it seems, ladies and gentlemen, that it is up to us to diversify our gas sources, to build the LNG terminal on Krk in Croatia, to change the regulatory environment in order for the consortium owned by the Americans and Austrians to produce gas from offshore fields in Romania. So it is up to Croatia, Romania, Austria and the United States to allow Hungary to diversify its gas sources. There are very well-sounding plans, very well-sounding statements, but with very well-sounding plans and very well-sounding statements, neither heating nor operating the economy. Therefore, we also draw the attention of American, Austrian, Croatian and Romanian colleagues to the fact that if they do not do their own homework, as we have done, because the necessary infrastructure has been built everywhere to the border, the necessary infrastructure is available on our side, then there is nothing left but to buy Russian gas again. Once again, this is largely up to our allies at the moment. As regards the comments on Russia and the People's Republic of China, I would like to tell you the following. I'm sure you know that I don't want to judge you why you're here, and I don't think it's right that there are very polite references to this, and you know very well who Huawei has concluded its two largest contracts in Hungary. One company is called Deutsche Telekom and the other by Vodafone, not a Hungarian company: one is the largest German telecommunications company and the other is the largest British telecommunications company. Believe me, fellow Members, when this question is raised to us by our American friends, I always tell them that I think they should first negotiate with the Germans and the British and then ask us. Just as it would be difficult to assume that Hungary would be very much the builder of Chinese investments in Europe, while Hungary has sixteen major Chinese investments. Ladies and gentlemen, 11 out of 16 do you know how it came about? Because the Chinese bought either American or German or Swiss or Canadian companies. What's that got to do with us? Well, don't sell American companies, German companies, Swiss and Canadians to the Chinese, and there won't be enough Chinese investments in Hungary! Sixteen Chinese investments in Hungary resulted from the acquisition of eleven international companies. I am also sure that my fellow Members know very well that Hungary and China account for 1.3 percent of trade in EU-China, 1.3 percent. The total turnover of the eleven EU Member States involved in China-Central Europe cooperation in 16+1 with China is 9.9 percent of EU-China trade flows. And then we are accused of breaking up the European Union's unity with regard to Chinese cooperation? Who asked the German Chancellor and the French President how could they have met with the Chinese state leadership and then sold 300 Airbus? Who asked the same question while we are faced with these issues before each China-Central Europe meeting? And what kind of contract you make with the Chinese, for example, I think everyone is left in their wisdom. If they offer contractual terms which do not coincide with national interest, which are detrimental to national interest, which are not worth financing, they do not need to be concluded. It is not necessary to conclude contracts; only contracts which are not otherwise contrary to national interest should be concluded. Let me also recommend to my fellow Members that they study how the trade flows of the Western European countries and Russia have developed in the last two years, and they may be surprised: Germany and Russia's trade flows have increased by 25 percent over the last two years, France and Russia's trade flows have increased by more than 40 percent over the last two years, Italy and Russia's trade flows have almost increased by 30 percent over the last two years. We are concerned that the Russians were our second most important trading partners before the imposition of sanctions, and now the fourteenth and we have lost about $8 billion in export opportunities because of the Russian import restrictive measures imposed by sanctions. These are just the facts, honourable Members, on which you have shown yourself in this debate. I would like to conclude by saying that I think it is certainly a good sign that on such an important issue, my fellow Members are right, sit either on the side of government or opposition, we can agree on a matter of national interest. If the Parliament can accept this draft legislation by a large majority, I think it will be good news and our debates on all other issues are likely to persist. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-13-60	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, We will now continue our work with two minutes' speeches. I give the floor to Congresswoman Agnes Vadai, DK Group. Here you go.
u2019-06-13-61	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, our fellow Member Béla Turi-Kovács left, although I was actually inspired by his thoughts, and I must say that he was positive and forward-looking, as he was not talking about the issue of sovereignty, because there he probably misunderstood what my fellow opposition Members and myself said. I think it is very positive and forward-looking that you want to talk, you want to argue, for example, about the European army. [[12.50]] I think that this convention, which is basically the defence agreement between the United States of America and Hungary and the other proposals for decisions related to it, may give us a basis and start something to try to talk about these issues. If not at the plenary session, but at the meeting of the Defence and Police Committee, for example, or at the Committee on Foreign Affairs, a joint meeting could be planned on these issues, because I think we should discuss these matters, these issues. I would like to say to my fellow Member, Mr Attila Mesterházy, that I have indeed missed the pro-government members of the Defence and Police Committee in this debate today, but, for example, at an event like this, where we would be discussing the fate of the European army or cyber-defense issues, perhaps we could finally get to know what the voice of Judge Mark sounds like, because I have not really heard him speak in the last ten years. I think it is important that those Members who consider the case of the Hungarian Defence Agency and the security policy issues are able to talk about these issues either in the Committee on Foreign Affairs or in the Committee on European Affairs or in the Committee on Defence and Police. The problem, my fellow Members, is that even though we have such initiatives, this is not happening. [[Peter Szijjártó is leaving.]] The Minister of Foreign Affairs has indicated that he must leave, but I would consider it important that, if there is such an idea in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, he should make such proposals and come and talk to us. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-13-62	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2019-06-13-63	Thank you very much. I'd like to interrupt Mr. Secretary here during the selfie until you're out of the room. I'm sure it looks good in a picture with Zsolt Németh, but, Minister, as weird as it sounds, we understand the lecture and that it's fashion, because you won the election, and you think you can do anything, but that doesn't mean you're right about the issues you're talking about. So you're saying there's no price for a meeting, but you're admitting that you've been consulting for weeks and months before that about buying weapons. I think that's what we talked about. That's the price of this meeting. The other is that you said you needed to talk to the president of the United States of America when there was a case. Well, please, we're in a lot of trouble, because that means we haven't had a case with the United States since 2010 to meet the President, and even now Trump has probably begged us to say, "We've got so much to do to talk to you, Viktor, please, come on, come on in, let me talk to you for a while, if we're twins in the story." So I think, in this respect, that bending reality is probably becoming a part of the movie Matrix, not of the parliamentary debate. As I would like to ask Mr State Secretary now that the Hungarian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs do everything in their power to ensure that NATO makes the right decisions. Because Minister for Foreign Affairs has said that this organization has ruined everything here in the past, so we need the Hungarian virtus, we need the Hungarian knowledge here within the NATO framework. So, if possible, do already make sure that there is order in the NATO countries as well, and show the right way to make the right decision in these international conflicts, as NATO leaders are clearly completely inadequate. So here's your chance, let's move on to the Hungarian government. Thank you.
u2019-06-13-64	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, No further two-minute speeches are now possible in this speaking session. I ask Congressman Mesterházy: did he also apply for a normal speech? [[For signal:]] Yes, the floor is yours.
u2019-06-13-65	Thank you very much. I thought that someone else would comment in a two-minute frame, so I made a normal comment, and thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity. I wanted to respond to one more thing while the Minister is here. The issue of sovereignty doesn't depend on what he's talking about. The fact that there are different choices made by economic companies is the case everywhere in the world, but regardless of this, the government, the legislature, has the means to influence these decisions or to prevent them. If I remember correctly, there was a presentation by the Ministry of Interior that was about qualifying for investments and investments in Hungary from a national security point of view; which is questionable, then many criticisms of opposition were also raised, and basically, the idea is not unicical; in many countries, there is such an opportunity for the government to qualify for investments, how much this is in line with our national security interests. So, when we are talking about the fact that there is an aspect of sovereignty, of Hungarian national sovereignty, that the Hungarian government is equivalent to a HUF 750 billion loan on a Budapest-Belgrád railway line, because we do see how many places in the world the Chinese source, the Chinese loan, is trying to buy influence, how it is trying to gain geopolitical advantage through resources, a thousand examples could be given, then yes, I think this idea is justified. And it can be explained clearly, of course it can be said that, but it is so with the Germans, and with the I don't know who else is listed, Minister, but I'm less interested in that. What interests me is the effect of this in Hungary, that the Hungarian government is prepared for this situation. And the same is true of Russia, where appropriate, but there may also be other countries that have such ambitions. Yes, these issues also affect Hungarian national sovereignty, and precisely because you always speak only in the aspect of sovereignty, in the context that concerns the European Union, never speak of such other aspects. Perhaps that is why your commitment to Euroatlantic cooperation may have decreased on a value-based basis in recent years, or it has in any case brought about a change in foreign policy. The other thing is that Minister instructed me that Trump's speeches should be properly looked at, and the president did not say to an outdated organisation, or, more specifically, that he did not say that NATO was an outdated organisation in this sense. Look, the way I see it, if I just put it on the Internet right now, I don't want to read you a couple of articles in English, and I did it fast, there's almost no article that's not about Trump's negative opinion of NATO, and I'm gonna simplify that so I don't waste any more time. So to say that Trump was an eternal fan of NATO from the beginning, and he's always talked about wanting to renew, strengthen this organization, I think it's not true. As a former NATO ambassador, you know that, even if you can't tell me, or I ask you not to tell me, because you say the same thing your minister said. So, in Hungarian, it is very good that we always quote from the speech that just supports our own comments, but in principle in the world somehow the feeling between the expert politicians and diplomats dealing with security policy developed and strengthened, as if Trump did not act as the biggest supporter of NATO. And this is what the U.S. Congress has also responded by its decision, which I have just quoted, and I will therefore spare Mr. Secretary of State the opportunity to repeat that. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity.
u2019-06-13-66	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Agnes Vadai, DK Group. Here you go.
u2019-06-13-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I was almost hoping that there would be some substantive debate about Hungary's place of security policy and its role in this proposal. Of course, we note that you must go to his advantage, I write that he was at least here, that no representative of the defence wallet came, while we were talking about very important issues. In addition, issues that obviously affect this defence agreement are listed at the end of the defence agreement as defence objects that have been designated as facilities where this convention is applied, such as Kecskemét airport, papal base airport, tata garrison, and castle palace garrison and training area. Therefore, this convention also affects the Hungarian Defence Forces to a large extent. And in particular, I wanted representatives of the defence wallet to be here, because the Hungarian soldiers were attacked quite naughtyly. Because I would like to say, fellow Members, that the Hungarian soldier should not only be proud when he likes to be on the government, but also when he does not like to be on the government. And a few times before 2010, they weren't on the government. However, what Zsolt Németh said, and unfortunately, Minister of Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó did not deny it, I hope that the Secretary of State, who may have followed the debate, also has these data regarding the defence budget... will deny it and he will say that he will make it clear that what Zsolt Németh said about defence expenditure and developments was simply not so. [[13.00]] This is also important because the Kecskemét base, the air base, which is included in this agreement, is the completion of its development, and indeed the start of its development is really left to us. The development of the papal base airport took place in our time. In your time, all that has happened is that, if I remember correctly, Csaba Hende, Minister of Defence, has laid a foundation stone with the NATO Secretary General, that there will be some improvement, but nothing has happened in this case. I would therefore like to make it clear that this defence agreement, which, once again, affects certain objects of the Hungarian Defence Forces, is the basis for this defence agreement to restore the situation between Hungary and the United States of America in the field of military cooperation and defence cooperation. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Minister of Foreign Affairs said that they don't pay for anything, especially international meetings. Look, it looks a little different. If you have started negotiations, as the Minister indicated, on the mid-range missile defence system, and this has been an advanced negotiation, then this is a small problem, a small problem, because if there is such a demand on the part of the Hungarian government, if you want to implement such a missile defence system, then this should have a cost, and before you begin to negotiate this with specific parties, and now the Minister has said that we have already heard, indeed, in February, during the visit of the Foreign Minister, the US Foreign Minister, that there have been negotiations on them, I would like to inform you that this is a public procurement. I understand that you did not buy the visit of the U.S. Secretary of State, nor did you buy it so that Viktor Orbán, after Ferenc Gyurcsány, could enter the White House, and indeed, as Attila Mesterházy said, you may even be right, perhaps between 2010 and 2019 there was nothing to say to the Government of the United States of America, its people, and certainly not to the President of the United States of America, but the appearance in this whole process is that, in agreement in advance, this price is essentially paid. In addition, according to press reports, and forgive me for having to rely on press coverage for defence procurements, but your fellow State Secretary is more likely to be a pacalist than to come to the Defence and Police Committee meeting and inform the members of the Defence and Police Committee about the various defence procurements, and, frankly, we have seen over the past few years that these purchases and I am talking about this because the Minister mentioned little systematic thinking, but rather some kind of favor or pacification. Let me tell you what I mean. (The chair is occupied by Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament. - György Szilágyi is replaced by Bence Tordai in the notary seat.) Leopard 2 is being bought from a Bavarian company, Airbus from Air Berlin, and now we hear that the United States of America wants to buy mid-range anti-aircraft missile systems on the one hand, I would add: there is a small problem, Kongsberg, a Norwegian company, and now they're in a bit of trouble with the Norwegians, because you think, in connection with some money, the Norwegians are giving the money they want for civilians, and you're spending it, and if we know it from the press, and I say it from the press, because no one in charge is coming, and you're not informing Parliamentary Representatives about how these purchases are going. The Secretary of State may be able to tell me at least because you have been informed that we have actually purchased 44 Leopard 2 tanks and 12 used ones, I do not ask you to tell me what skills these tanks have, so I assume that if your minister says that they have already negotiated the mid-range anti-aircraft missile system earlier, not only the members of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but also the members of the military wallet, because although I know that very smart people are sitting in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, no especially they consult very smart people, as we know, Gruevski, Nikola Gruevski, the former Prime Minister of Macedonia who was sentenced to permanent imprisonment in his country, and he has probably had a greater impact on you than any citizen in this country, because he asked you to ratify North Macedonia's accession to NATO, and you listened to him because he was also a Prime Minister for ten years. I was not in such a high position, I spent a few years in the Defence Secretary's seat, I learned a lot at the time with the soldiers, but there are still people in this country who were prime ministers, it might be worth consulting them, they know a lot about the situation of Hungary, and it might be worth taking their ideas in some cases. But back to the purchase itself, which has come to light as regards the fact that the Secretary of State made it clear that the acquisition of the anti-aircraft missile system was interesting that he did not speak of the acquisition of the fighter aircraft himself, even though according to the press, this was also the case or was mentioned earlier, but that the acquisition of the anti-aircraft missile system was not the subject of any deal. Now, what I would like to ask is that if there was a chance to get to know this negotiation process, that the documentation of the negotiation process of this agreement, because it does cover a year and a half, that would be very helpful for clarity, because that would reveal a few things. Because indeed, Béla Turi-Kovács, I think it is wrong and I am very sorry that you are not here, because then we would settle any disputes between ourselves that the opposition has raised the issue of sovereignty, to say the least, in relation to the conclusion of this treaty, both at the meeting of the Defence and Police Committee and here in plenary. Ladies and gentlemen, Sovereignty is not an absolute thing. From sovereignty, in cases where we enter, we become part of a club, we voluntarily hand over our sovereignty. This is what happened when, in fact, it was rightly mentioned, we joined NATO through a referendum, and this happened, for example, in connection with our accession to the European Union. The fact that you consider every international treaty, so this is very important, the security of Hungary, and I would add that you may also consider the agreement that is important for the development of the Hungarian Defence Forces as a matter of sovereignty, and that is why you are able to spend a year and a half with it, so that you can come to the meeting of the Defence and Police Committee, and with huge, large ideas you can say that because the Hungarian Government has protected Hungarian sovereignty, I would like to say, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, that this will still make American soldiers appear on Hungarian soil, they will still come, because this is the same agreement, which has been mentioned earlier. I therefore think that these issues should be very clear if for no other reason, because surprisingly, imagine that some people are watching Parliament's mediation, reporting on it, which is basically very important and very good, it is a pity that there is no greater opportunity for such parliamentary debates to reach as many people as possible. Unfortunately, the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has now left, obviously, as my fellow Member Attila Mesterházy said, after a selfie with the Foreign Minister, he considered the international morning to be closed for his part, but yet his name is bound to false statements against which I think he should protest clearly not only me and not just the opposition, but also the representatives of the responsible pro-government and, indeed, the representative of the government. I expect the government, although I know they like to live in an alternate reality, but don't lie about defence budgets, don't lie about purchases, and don't claim things that aren't there. The Hungarian Defence Office and I think it doesn't matter whether someone sits on the right or on the left is an important institution of this country. Without the Hungarian Defense, there would be no such agreement. Without the Hungarian Defence, there would be a lot of things in this country. [[13.10]] For the past 30 years, Hungarian taxpayers have spent their money according to the political priorities and opportunities of all governments. If we look at the data, we can clearly see that the Orbán government spent both in 2001 and 2002. He spent because he threw out the MiG-29s and some kind of non-government meeting, I would also like to say to my fellow opposition Members, but at the national security cabinet meeting they decided not to buy F-16s, but Gripen. We will probably only learn that from the memoirs of Fidesz MEPs once why they decided to do so and finally how much it cost at the end. But after 2002, the defence budget grew unbroken. The year of crisis was indeed difficult, but I would like to inform you that, even in the year of crisis, the Gyurcsány government spent more money, and later the Bajnai government spent on the development of the Hungarian defence than it did between 2011-16. The fact that, thanks to this treaty, and this is what the ministers who were there at the time were talking about will be open to various developments in the U.S. government and police committee, it will be good for the only thing that the powers that have been lost in recent years due to your irresponsible behaviour can be rebuilt. I would add that the Hungarian Defence Office, if we look at our national institutions, is among the most respected national institutions. This means not only spending on this institution, but also respecting this institution. It is disrespectful on the part of the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs when he lies about budget expenditure in this regard, and it is particularly disrespectful that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which should be aware of these figures, is the Minister, but I hope that the Secretary of State will reflect on this and not contradict the position of the Fidesz President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. This is not a question of right and left. I am always clear at the Defence and Police Committee meetings, we will support developments affecting the army, not only because it is necessary, but because the army is the guarantee, one of the guarantees for the security of Hungarian citizens. The soldiers of the Hungarian Army have sacrificed a great deal for this country. They served abroad, served at home, not many of them died for this country. It is our joint responsibility to make good use of such contracts and the opportunities resulting from them either at Kecskemét Airport or in the garrison Tata or in Várpalota. I think that this agreement, which, once again, is not sovereignty [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This will also serve the interests of the Hungarian Defence Service. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-06-13-68	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Ágnes Vadai. I respectfully welcome my fellow Members and ask if someone would like to take advantage of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The joint general debate is closed and I give the floor on behalf of the authors to State Secretary Péter Sztáray to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2019-06-13-69	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Listening to the debate, it occurred to me that this might deserve a separate, different day of debate, this is the issue, because our present proposal serves an issue in which the whole House seems to agree otherwise; that is to say, an agreement with the United States of America, which modernises our previous agreement of a similar nature, and allows us to strengthen our defence cooperation with the Allied Member State leading NATO. So I think, in this respect, this could be a celebration. The question of how the defence of the country is handled, I think, requires a very complicated political and historical reflection, which is actually a secondary aspect of the current debate. If you look at the numbers, they can be grouped in different ways, by the way, as to how the defence budgets were managed by which government. According to our figures, in 2002, when there was a change of government and direction from an internal political point of view, the defence budget was at 1.7 percent of GDP. This figure decreased significantly by 2010, amounting to 1,14 percent. I think this is a very significant reduction. The subsequent reductions were obviously linked to the economic crisis, the reform measures and the rest, but finally, when we see the trend, we see that this government is implementing the largest defence development project in the last 60 to 70 years. So this kind of modernisation, technical development has not taken place for many decades, perhaps even half a century. I think that this is once again a very positive element, and we will build on it the Hungarian Defence Forces, which we all respect, because without the defence there is no state, so we are trying to restore the future of the Hungarian Defence Forces by putting the development that has not been completed by the government from several sources, with a very significant increase in the defence budget. I don't want to go into the details any more, but I think that these are rather showing that the current government is taking this issue very seriously. What is gratifying, and I would like to end by saying that we are not stalling, is that the DCA, that is, that defence cooperation agreement, seems to be concluded by consensus, and so we reiterate the broad political agreement that not only characterizes our NATO membership, but also our operational participation and other related issues in the Hungarian policy, and that is certainly to be welcomed. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-13-70	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Péter András Sztáray. Dear Parliament, We have until 4 p.m. on Friday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill to amend certain public service laws until closure. The government referral is T/6353. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Péter András Sztáray, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2019-06-13-71	Mr President, thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The proposal before us essentially seeks to amend three laws. The first is the objective of the amendment of the National University of Public Service and the Law on Administrative, Police and Military Higher Education, which was adopted by the Government in December 2018, through the creation of an appropriate legal environment, as set out in the Government Decision on the promotion of higher education and research and development tasks for good governance and the modernisation of public administration. Secondly, the purpose of the amendment to the law on foreign representations and permanent foreign service is to ensure consistency between the laws on government administration. And the third is the Government Administration Act, hereinafter referred to as Kit. It also contains technical clarifications. Dear Parliament, The purpose of the amendment of the NKE Act is to create an appropriate legal environment, as the Government provided for strategic development objectives for the National University of Public Service in December 2018. Among the objectives were the achievement of high rankings in the rankings of the international competitiveness of the university, the significant development of research performance and the development of intellectual centres that are attractive to young people, and the values of Hungarian culture. The bill contributes to the renewal of the internal organisation of the NKE and sets out amendments related to the exercise of employers' rights that are necessary for the university to maintain the high level of training for its students, and further strengthens it by providing the highest-skilled and skilled teaching staff. [[13.20]] The university has a special role to play among higher education institutions, and it has therefore become necessary to establish special exemption rules in order to increase the quality of the teaching staff and to rationalise the number of staff, thus being designed in line with the provisions of the Act on Government Administration. The grounds for dismissal to be introduced are subject to the effective performance of the tasks and to the protection of the university's reputation. The new exemption rules provide for the possibility of termination of employment where the educational or scientific activities are not properly carried out. The university's constantly expanding educational activity and related property stock make it necessary to expand the range of managers. In addition to the position of Director-General for Economic Affairs, the position of chief campus director is established, which is justified by increasing tasks related to the operation of the campus. In order to ensure consistency with the law on national higher education, it is also necessary to define how management posts can be held. Dear Parliament, On 1 March 2019 the Act on Government Administration entered into force as a whole. The Kit. In the context of its entry into force, a review of sectoral legislation and its Kit became necessary. the corresponding modification of the concept used by the Member State and the relevant exchange of legal references. Given that the background legislation of the Foreign Service Act was the Public Service Officers Act, Kit is necessary. and the relations of the Foreign Service Act, and it is necessary to establish the consistency of legal institutions not regulated in Kit, but relevant to the permanent external service, such as job-place recognition, service recognition and freedom with Kit. The bill also contains Kit. Proposals for amendments to the rules relating to permanent external service, which are not directly linked to its provisions, are also essential for the proper functioning of the permanent external service system. This will clarify the rules for the transitional internal preparation of foreign and permanent external personnel. As a result of the amendment, the former kindergarten and schooling expenses are converted into child-rearing expenses. In the future, unlike the previous legislation, the transferred diplomat or other member of staff will be entitled to reimbursement of expenses from the birth of the child if the child is with him at the station until the completion of the child's secondary education, but not more than 21 years of age. The amendment also provides for a 10-percent increase in child-rearing expenses for those who are single-trained at the station as a family-friendly measure. Dear Parliament, The Act on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information is hereinafter referred to as the Information Act 27. Paragraph 2 (f) provides for the possibility of restricting the right to access public data in the public interest or in the public interest in relation to foreign relations or relations with international organisations. The inclusion, establishment, operation or termination of diplomatic and economic relations between countries is a special, sensitive area of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade which has its own written and unwritten system of rules and behaviour. During diplomatic contact, customary law prevails so strongly that not following the special rules of the special area can in fact and demonstrably have a negative impact on Hungary's relations with foreign and international organisations. The info law is 27. The proposal contains a detailed list of the types of data, in compliance with the obligation set out in paragraph 2 of Section 2. The main objective of the aid schemes covered by the Government Decree on the use of investment promotion appropriations is to promote investment promotion in Hungary and to facilitate the establishment of investors in Hungary. The publicity of applications, offers and investigations prior to the conclusion of the grant agreement can be demonstrated and appreciably impairs Hungary's negotiating positions against future investors and creates a competitive disadvantage in the competition with foreign investment promotion organisations for an investment, and in most cases may constitute data for decision-making on reinvestment projects and subsequent investment expansion transactions, the disclosure of which is liable to cause a national economic disadvantage. It must be seen that there is huge competition here, because if we find out what kind of aid scheme we have, this could also be a competitive advantage for other regional competitors. During the care of diplomatic relations, the negotiators expect mutual distribution, not including public, bilateral, multilateral or other agreements, agreements, and the establishment of missions in the territory of each other's States. These negotiation processes, the formulation of the expectations and demands of the negotiating partners, the dissemination of the details of the negotiation to the public, are capable of giving rise to disapproval of the negotiating partner and of halting the negotiation process, not including the public interest in informing the public. The increased protection of the data of persons who are related to work with a permanent external service body, who are involved in the external economy, foreign policy and diplomatic mission, is justified both by national security considerations and by ensuring that Hungary's foreign policy interests are supplied without any external influence. The publicity of these data is capable of changing the focal points of the various national security specialist services, and is at increased risk for those serving abroad in order to enforce Hungary's foreign policy and external economic interests. The proposal also provides for a maximum period of protection of data and for the possibility of not setting protection periods for the types of data listed there, based on the decision of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister responsible for the management of civil intelligence activities. Dear Parliament, Last but not least, the proposal also contains technical clarifications of the Government Administration Act, which concern the rules for determining the tasks to be performed at the post, the rules on the remuneration of the heads of the government and the central office, and the rules on the remuneration and additional leave of government and district officials and their alternates. The bill also provides for the application of a law on central government administrations and the status of members of the government and State Secretarys-General, or of the Act on the Statute of the Government. Refers to the salary of Prime Minister, Minister and State Secretary, where Kstv may apply until 31 December 2019. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of Following the collection of experience with Kit, Kit is expected to take place during the autumn of 2019. and the related laws that may trigger the transitional provisions contained in Kit. Dear Parliament, Mr President, In view of what has been said, I would like to ask you to support the bill tabled with your vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-06-13-72	Thank you, Mr Péter András Sztáray, State Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. [[13.30]]
u2019-06-13-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us contains amendments to four pieces of legislation. I do not wish to make any amendments to the first legislation, since this is just a brief clarification. The more important is the amendment of the National University of Public Service and the Law on Administrative, Police and Military Higher Education. The state and development of the National University of Public Service is of particular importance for the future functioning and quality of the Hungarian public sector, as the aim of the establishment of the university is to transfer the service, protection and love of the country to future generations with a commitment to the common good and a high level of professional knowledge. From the outset, the government has been treating the institution according to the importance of this mission, ensuring the infrastructure and staff required for high education and student life. Accordingly, the home of the National University of Public Service, the Ludovika Campus, was built, and the largest public park of the Inner Pest, Orczy Garden, was reborn. The renovated historical building of the Ludovika Academy with modern university library and educational spaces, as well as practical training buildings, dorms, sports halls, indoor swimming pools and outdoor sports fields was owned by university students. So infrastructurally everything is given to achieve the goals set by the university. In addition, there is, of course, a need to establish a structure of instructors and leaders that allows for the achievement of the ranking places measuring the international competitiveness of the university, the significant development of research performance, and the development of intellectual centres that are attractive to young people, as well as the values of Hungarian culture. A solution to this wish is the proposal before us, which contributes to the renewal of the internal organisation of the NKE and makes amendments related to the exercise of employers' rights which are essential to a high level of training and to a continuous increase in the qualifications and professional skills of the teachers' faculty. In line with the established employment structure in the field of military and military science training, this amendment also extends the possibility of setting down lecturers on the contract of assignment during the accreditation procedure to police and national security training areas. Experience in recent years has shown that it is necessary to include highly qualified officers and employees in basic and master's programmes at the university, for which the amendment before us provides an opportunity. As I pointed out at the beginning, the university plays a special role among higher education institutions, so it became necessary to establish special exemption rules in order to achieve an increase in the quality of instructors and the rationalisation of the number of staff, so they are designed in line with certain provisions of the Act on Government Administration. It is sufficient to mention the case where the educational and scientific activities, educational qualifications, qualifications or professional experience of the public servant are inadequate to perform the job and the possibility of becoming unworthy of the job. The amendments I have highlighted are designed to create the most competitive teaching staff at the university. I would also like to briefly mention the 2016 LXXIII on foreign representations and permanent external service. the amendments to the Act concerning the preparation of the stock. It was necessary for the law to finally settle precisely certain permissions and obligations of members of the staff preparing for external service, as the time spent in the staff could reach half a year and represent a significant harm to the interests of the preparer for such a long period of time. All these clarifications have a wide impact on the preparer, as they specify his benefits, discounts, the duration of his preparation, the way in which he is relocated, reinstated, employed, proof of his preparation obligation, the extent of his leave. Thanks to these amendments, the members of the preparation staff are given precise provisions on the duration of their legal relationship, thus eliminating the uncertainty for months. Finally, for the sake of the completeness of the bill, it is necessary to mention that the proposal also amends the Act on Government Administration itself, with largely technical clarifications that affect the rules for determining the tasks to be performed at the post, the rules on the salary of the head of the government and the head of the central office, and the rules on the salaries and additional leave of government and district officials and their alternates. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the proposal before us serves both the public interest and the individual interests of citizens, and therefore the Fidesz Group supports the proposal that has been tabled. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-13-74	Thank you very much, Congressman László Salacz. I now give the floor to Mr Brenner Koloman, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2019-06-13-75	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, First of all, I would like to say two thoughts on legislative technology, because I have been thinking for a long time about the reason why these two issues are actually on two issues: the University of Public Service, on the one hand, and the amendment of the Foreign Service Act, so how these two issues have been put together in a bill. And then I thought, 'cause they both start with a "k" maybe. [[Defiance in the opposition's benches.]] The joke aside, I am in a very difficult situation, because the Secretary of State has presented very detailed proposals for the Foreign Service Act, which are very supportive and eligible. I can fully support this. But since I am about to give you some very serious criticisms about the National University of Public Service, I should like to point out that, unfortunately, the Jobbik faction will not be able to support this bill, even though I fully accept what Mr. Secretary of State has analysed in very detail in his expoze, the part concerning the amendment of the Foreign Service Act. That is only fair, because Mr Secretary of State has said this very long, and I would like to say this in my speech as general speaker, because we would, of course, say yes to this part of the bill if we had the opportunity. But let's look at the case of the National University of Public Service, because listening to the Fidesz lead speaker before me, I had a bit of a strange feeling. I fully agree with the objectives of this justification. [[13.40]] In fact, I will tell the honourable colleagues here perhaps so much as to introduce myself as the secretary of the Committee of the Hungarian Rectors Conference for quite a long time, and, let's say, I have been quite familiar with the activities of the Zriny College, and I know it relatively well, and I have also done accreditations for nine years. I don't think that anyone in this country has conducted more than I have, than I do, than the accreditation process of 78 masters, so I think I'm pretty much familiar with the accreditation process. And when I have just heard here that it is necessary to extend to law enforcement and national security training areas, in order to count the hour-taxes employed by the contract of assignment into accreditation, then don't be angry, my dear fellow Member, that is a complete contradiction. I mean, once again in every MAB accreditation, I've had 78 master classes personally accredited as Dean, the criterion is that I have to have a full-time head coach in charge of the course. I'm sorry, you dare to describe such nonsense, but seriously, so this is simply a ridiculous professional argument? I'll give you some details, then I'll give you a summary. In addition, the fact that the intended exemption rules were also tried to come up here from a quality assurance point of view is also highly ridiculous. I would highlight two concepts here to say that "the inappropriate work" is. Can you explain to me what that is? And who's gonna check that out? And what is the monitoring system for this at the National University of Public Service? What instructor rating system? Because without it, it's a rubber paragraph. Then someone's boss looks at him, and then he can be dismissed, because that's exactly what that means. The same applies to the lack of merit. What do you mean, "undeserved"? If you've killed someone, of course, it's not worth it, but beyond that word, it's not worth it... and otherwise, it's a lot of academics, and it's not, let's say, civil servants, as far as I know. So I think that this is also a rubber paragraph that does not point to an increase in quality, on the contrary. They are now trying to make the most of the sad fate that despite the huge amount of money spent, there are few students and too many instructors, and now, obviously, a government decision was made last year that woe, but modern, everything will be attractive, and then they will bring such a detailed regulation to this House, which is the opposite of what is otherwise a very fair goal in the development of this entire institution when Tibor Navracsics conducted here at the National University of Public Service, who is currently a Fidesz Commissioner for the European Union, is not so sure that he would enter Fidesz. [[Dr. Péter Hoppál: Hungarian!]] [[Dr. Péter Hoppál: Hungarian!]] And I'm pretty sure he wouldn't enter the Fidesz, obviously, because he wouldn't enter this Fidesz anymore. (Dr. Peter Hoppál: English!) But it's just a side note. So, I think that these regulations that I have specifically mentioned must be removed from this bill. The transitional provisions include the possibility of applying these provisions to the current academic year because of sound management. So, it's so urgent to deal with someone in this university? Because what I hear from colleagues is that, let's say, the last 50-60-year-old colleague, who may not belong to the mid-term 30-year-old associate category, which is quite common at this university, let's say, in other universities where I work, without habilitation, you can't appoint anyone as a university professor, but of course it's such a great university, that even at the age of 30 you can be a professor. So I think that these worrying passages must be taken out of this. Campus Chief Executive. Well, congratulations. Seriously! I didn't know what would make a university flourish if it wasn't the head porter. I'm serious, campus director. Well, that's great. Seriously, is that what you need? Another paid fidesz who owns an office. Congratulations. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Shame!]] That's right, it's a shame to bring that up. So it's just ridiculous. And then they dare to say it here in the presentation. [[Intercom from Fidesz: Doctor!]] And in the keynote speech, does that guarantee quality? [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Press the button, and then we'll talk about it, my honourable fellow Member, and don't keep jumping into it. [[Grumble in the ranks of Fidesz. Dr. Péter Hoppál: Style is man!]] That's right, style is man. You're yelling in here, that's right, during my keynote speech, that's right. In defence training, they also require closer cooperation with the Ministry. This is very right, because otherwise, this is fundamentally justified in relation to the educational material that has been taught. The new rule under which the university's budgetary resources may be subject to grants, donations and other non-valued obligations in connection with its tasks and core activities as defined in the University's statutes is of great concern and can provide a basis for abuse. What is this to do if not to get taxpayers' money out of the National University of Public Service? I'd like to ask you this rather rhetorical question here. Then, in order to give a summary assessment of all this and the situation of the National University of Public Service, let us face it, that, as I said, when Minister Navracsics developed his concept, this was not what has now been the case. I remember very precisely that there was indeed a good concept from the unification of these arms, the unification of them from college, which had already been attacked politically at the time, and they said that there was a very high risk that this would be a university that would be included in the country's budget in a separate way. We still make exceptional, exceptional, exceptional rules that no accreditation rules have to be complied with, can be dismissed, can come and go, appointed. So basically, quality, which is supposed to be in the explanatory statement, doesn't play any part here. There are a lot of good professors at this university, I'd like to point out. I'm not hurting them, I'm trying to criticize the system in a way that I can clearly see from the bill before us. As I have mentioned, as I have heard, the old colleagues with a scientific degree and a proper list of publications in their profession are constantly being dismissed, and I think that this is of great concern only from the point of view, because I believe that the issue of university autonomy should also apply to the National University of Public Service, and that the fact that this was placed under such direct government control is already an indication of the end result, because let us see that this is practically a veterinary horse for the project management of Fidesz. So there is a perfectly good goal, a goal to support: to have high-quality university education in this area that this country deserves. It's totally eligible, that's how it's supposed to be. Then they create a small world separate from normal regulation in such a university world, where Fidesz tells us about who to become the chief porter, who will now be called the campus principal, killing a lot of money from the taxpayers' money, and then the output is more than modest, and I don't even talk about the number of students anymore. So I think, in summary, that the objectives set out in the explanatory statement are perfectly eligible, and this bill is completely inadequate to achieve these objectives, and, unfortunately, we cannot support this bill on behalf of the Jobbik faction. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Marta Demeter applauds. Dr. Peter Hoppál:]]
u2019-06-13-76	Thank you very much, Congressman Brenner Koloman. I give the floor to Mr András Aradszki, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2019-06-13-77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, The legislative amendment before us, T/6353. It proposes to amend four laws: the Law on the National University of Public Service, the Law on Foreign Representations and Permanent External Service, the Law on Government Administration and the Law on Central Administration and the Status of Government Members and State Secretarys. This is a rather comprehensive amendment proposal. It is comprehensive in such a way that it includes the rules of the public service sector, from training to the regulation of practical administrative and public service activities. I think it is important to mention that the Law on the National University of Public Service, which was born in 2011, has tried to set up a university to provide people working in public services, public administration and young people who want to be trained in a high level of training by issuing and developing a single administrative approach to public administration. Until 2012, this area was rather fragmented, i.e. detailed, different colleges and different universities. There has not been a unified approach on the basis of which a well-trained civil servant and public service body should be established in Hungary, capable of displaying and applying our traditional values, and able to use the latest, most innovative solutions in the public administration, as if to signal to the legislators how to operate a given public service area effectively and more usefully. [[13.50]] It should be said that these goals have also been achieved by the National University of Public Service in its current formation, and we are now talking about a university with stable accreditation and good quality training. Still, it is worth examining whether this training is sufficient, so that it can be further developed. These are questions for which you can usually choose yes, because there is no good practice, there is no good practice that cannot be changed even better, more flexible and more effective. This is what the bill before us is trying to do, which is actually about creating an appropriate legal environment within the framework of and in order to achieve the development objectives of the National University of Public Service. This requires the renewal of the internal organisation of the NKE and the repair of areas related to the exercise of employers' rights. Of course, not destroyed, not reduced, university autonomy, but the direction of regulation is precisely the opposite of giving the university greater flexibility, more independent decision-making opportunity, so that, as it is among the goals of the university, it should be a university of cooperation, i.e. a cooperative, cooperative staff of teachers, and this knowledge, this cooperation skill, should become one of the skills of students there. From this point of view, it is very important to record that this high level of training can be maintained permanently and, if necessary, appropriate measures can be taken by the university's management in order to ensure that, under existing infrastructure conditions, a truly modern training can be carried out while operating it. This is why it is important that specific exemption rules are established for the institution providing administrative training, which is sufficiently diverse from law enforcement to national protection, which can be adapted and adapted to the specific training characteristics of the particular area and to the training needs of the subject. It is my view that these objectives for improving the quality of teaching can be sufficiently served by the special exemption rules and that they can provide an adequate scientific and professional background. The other law, the amendment of the Law on the National University of Public Service, should therefore be supported in any way by the KDNP, because it can even trigger innovation in the field of university training, and it can be exemplary not only for this university, but also for other universities, and other institutions will be able to apply the experience gathered here. The amendment of the Foreign Representation Act is more technical and is in fact tidying up the field of postings and the labour law of the external services and the preparation period. I think that the foreign policy area knows this in sufficient depth and has been able to see in sufficient depth what anomalies are. I consider it important that this amendment also includes a family-friendly measure which is in line with the national policy objectives that Fidesz-KDNP represents in this Parliament and intends to pursue in its policy. In fact, the Act on Government Administration contains technical clarifications, these technical clarifications are obviously necessary for the correct application of the law and for the establishment of a better administrative environment. The same applies to the clarification of the rules on the calculation of the salary of State Secretarys of State. Overall, since each bill concerns public service, public administration, this is the reason for its unified negotiation, and we support the adoption of the law by the Christian Democratic People's Party. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-13-78	Thank you, Congressman András Aradski. I now give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2019-06-13-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, This salad law concerns at least three completely different areas and, arguing a little with my previous colleague from Aradski, there is practically no legal connection between them. Obviously, this method was chosen to carry some swine through the Hungarian National Assembly in such a salad law. These three main areas are the changes to the National University of Public Service, the changes to the external relations, and the third, which has been quite quiet in the pro-government speeches, the proposal to amend certain laws preparing to steal hundreds of billions of Hungarian taxpayers. The lead speaker of Fidesz, but I understand that the lead speaker of KDNP considers this simply a small, short technical adjustment, which was not worth mentioning. I don't blame you, because I think it would be difficult for you to argue for these amendments with a fair, straight waist. Mr. Secretary, sometimes I felt a little shaky reading the explanation that gave me your expose. Ladies and gentlemen, Let's go over what areas they're going to change. Here was a picture of a simple, summer afternoon legislative amendment proposal, when someone followed this debate, he felt that everything was okay, that they were doing a lot of good for the people and the country. We see almost every aspect of this bill in a completely different way. Ladies and gentlemen, The direction of the amendment proposal on the National University of Public Service can be summarised broadly in our view by giving even greater and further freedom to the university's management so that they can play with virtually no limits and play with the staff working there, their lives and their fates. On the one hand, it is said that the instructors on the contract of assignment should be included in the scientific work, because, therefore, they are lacking, while at another point of amendment, in order to reduce the additional number of instructors, let me put it this way, they want to further increase the number of rubber rules existing in practically kicking off to the face, with absolutely amazing reasons, for example, for more efficient work. With that kind of power they could have entered the paragraph with the beginning of the day, because there is a clause of the law because of the lack of merit, which has been there; it is also a rule that they practically say it to whom they want it to be. And here's a hard to decipher, if the ratio between the number of hours required and the number of hours retained exceeds the new reason given on the code name 1,25. But the point is, the first two are basically like, you know, people who don't like college management can pack around the next morning and leave their jobs in an area of science and science. This is the same, honourable fellow Members, that they are not willing to understand about the MTA, nor are they able to understand with regard to administrative courts that one of the most important issues of work in the field of independent powers such as the court, or in the field of scientific life, is that someone wants to do what is required of him in the scientific world, then no other, whether political or personal, has to comply with it, because it will be a scientific work, and it will not be an achievement. With posters glue, you can't run a university, you can't do college education, you can't raise students. [[14.00]] But in return, there's gonna be a great new job, and we think it's the campus director-in-chief position, and we're sure that with millions of dollars' salary and a big office, someone's gonna head up the campus. We are very curious to know who we can respect by name in this proposal probably will not be surprised when it comes to appointments. Of course, another part of personal legislation that is dragged here from one side to the other is age rules. Here the age limits can then be waived for some people, which is included in the law. Congratulations, these are stable, predictable, professionally sound, long-lived rules that guarantee the public service training of the Republic of Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, It's kind of like seeing the rules of a simple PAC school, where the question is only that the kind leader has everything available to shape personal questions in his own environment as he pleases. We think this university is being confused with something else. In relation to the Foreign Representations and the Permanent Foreign Service Act, we also need to give some thought to the history, because it highlights the high-quality legislation that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has done in recent years in this area, as this bill itself has been the result of a regulatory amendment to the external service acquis in the last few years alone. On 13 June 2016, the Parliament adopted the large package of amendments that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs had dreamed of, and on 27 October 2016, so a few months later, before the law came into force, the law was brought back and started to be amended. Then, even before the law came into force, on 12 April 2017, the Ministry initiated another amendment to the law once again, and I say that this law has not yet entered into force, inter alia, on the grounds that the law adopted the previous year was not well prepared, and that there are things in life that need to be adapted to that law that has not yet entered into force. Congratulations on that. Then, in October 2018, a proposal for an amendment of the law was put forward to further modify the changes that you have brought in. And here we are now in June 2019, when, if I count it correctly, the fourth time this law has been introduced, among other things, I say to Mr Aradski, as a family-friendly government, because, for example, child and family support has been taken away by you in this basic proposal for 2016. What had been done before was removed and then brought back with the other amendment before the entry into force, but not so. Practically calculated, and let's face it, this is the point, in terms of the people involved, that has caused a huge disadvantage in the lives of the families serving abroad, making it virtually impossible in a number of cases, especially in countries where there are serious tuition fees and serious other living expenses compared to the Hungarian context in relation to the education of the family and children. [[In the notary seat, Attila Móring József will be replaced by Dr. István Simicskó.]] By the way, I think it's a shame to go into these details of the bill. There are some eligible parts in it, among other things, I say once again, finally the correction of child-rearing expenses or exchange rate compensation, which may have been a problem so far, but now at least they're treating it. I think it doesn't deserve to be said again. It's the fourth or fifth time they've brought this proposal in and out. This is where we reach the most interesting part of the law, the part limiting the right to access public data, to which the Secretary of State refers, if we have noticed correctly, he has read the justification of the law that the info law gives the authority to do so, in the light of foreign relations and relations with international organisations. I think we should take it from the top, Mr. Secretary. Article 38 of the Fundamental Law adopted by you contains the constitutional requirement for transparency of public funds. Article 39 (2) literally states: "The public funds and national assets shall be treated in accordance with the principles of transparency and the purity of public life. Data on public funds and national assets are data of general interest. What you are proposing here is that public funds given to investments in Hungary for relations with foreign affairs and international organisations are being hidden, which is simply outrageous, rogue, unconstitutional, and is likely to be in conflict with EU rules, obviously you are not interested in the latter two at all. Tell me already, Mr State Secretary, to grant non-refundable subsidies from the budget money paid by Hungarian taxpayers to the company with its head office, establishment or branch, European public limited liability company and European cooperative, and then to hide this from the Hungarian taxpayers, which is justified by the foreign relations or by reference to the relationship with an international organisation. There is no foreign relations in these cases. There is no connection with any international organisation that you provide billions of Hungarian taxpayers' money to foreign companies. Yes, it is possible to argue which point of these subsidies is, by the way, reasonable or unreasonable in terms of the government's negotiating capacity, so let's say that preparatory material for the hearing can be made public or not. But, my honourable fellow Member, you know best, Mr Secretary of State, that the general rule of public interest data is that preparatory documents are not part of public interest data, at least not in principle. In addition, you wish to encrypt data for five years, for five years from the date of their creation, which is not only the preparatory documents themselves, but also the aid application, I will read: the documents generated by the examination of the eligibility of the aid application, the grant decision or the conditional grant offer will therefore not be able to recognize the decision itself, the documents relating to the modification of the grant contract, and here will not be able to look into the grossest documents created during reporting and tracing. So you claim that it is in the interests of the Hungarian nation, that it is in the interest of Hungarian taxpayers to report the investment that has already been decided and carried out, that the conditions for which the government has given them have been fulfilled, or that the money has been stolen, whistled or not, and that no one in this country can even know, and certainly not the people who tax their money after their daily work, and from which you are handing out the money. It's just outrageous. If we buy a major investment in the national economy, say, a BMI-type investment, which may be completed in five years' time after today's decision, and then within a few years' time the report comes, and after that it will remain secret for five years, it means that no one can know where the Hungarian government has spent the money, under what conditions and how. In this year's budget, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about HUF 50 billion, and next year we are talking about HUF 80 billion, that if it is up to the Fidesz government, it will grow, over a period of several hundred billion forints, hundreds of thousands of million forints. The magnitude of this is much greater than the otherwise legitimate scandal and the other madness which the courts have stopped, the public money character of the Hungarian National Bank, is being lost by their type of project. It's pretty much the same thing. It was the same thing so that a hundreds of billions of dollars of state wealth could be disposed of and distributed, treated so that no one would ever legally know anything about it afterwards. They're doing the same thing now, but I'll keep it quiet, in greater order. He loses his public money character, because there will be no way to know who, when, why, on what basis he decided, and not even whether the investment supported by this was made or whether the entire money was simply stolen home. At least for five years, no one can know about this. [[14.10]] And it is obvious that we are talking about the rape of the letter of the current laws, and we are talking about the rape of their own Fundamental Law, because, on the one hand, these arguments you are saying are not correct, and, on the other hand, my fellow Members, the practice of the court was quite clear, and that is precisely why the court is here. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I will finish, I ask for one minute, ladies and gentlemen, so that you can decide on individual matters what is in the interests of the Hungarian State and what is not. Thank you so much for listening, and I'll keep going.
u2019-06-13-80	Thank you, Congressman Tamás Bellozó. I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2019-06-13-81	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, There are several important points to the new law on lettuce that lies before us. It can be seen from the practice of the past few years that the government is very fond of such solutions, and they are trying to hide a lot of things in these laws. I would group my speech around three main themes. First, I would like to talk about the National University of Public Service, then about the Law on Foreign Service and Representations, and then about the amendments on the availability of data of general interest. I'd like to start with the National University of Public Service. I went to the National University of Public Service myself. In 2016, I graduated from the exams there, and I must say that I feel very lucky to have learned from very, very excellent instructors in the security and defence policy field. And in my capacity as such, I think it is very important what happens at the university, that there are the conditions necessary for high-quality education, what the future of the university will be, and of course I consider it very important as a member of the Hungarian Parliament. That is why I would like to point out that an incredibly negative amendment is a factor which has a negative impact on the future of the university, science, research and the knowledge of the future generation, if the instructors are to be delivered to the university's management at the level that you intend to do in this law. Such, as previously mentioned by my fellow Members, is to be taken into account as full-time instructors with a contract of assignment, which, in fact, does not contain any positive aspects of the university's life, unless it is intended to improve statistics. And here, too, I would like to draw attention to what I have said to my fellow Members on numerous occasions in the field of security, not to adapt the laws to the deteriorating situation, but to the worsening situation and problems that need to be resolved, reversed and put on the path of growth and development. So it's merely cosmetic, with no positive contribution to the university's life. However, it is terrible that the civil servant status can be terminated by the university and a number of points are listed here. My fellow Members have highlighted a number of things, such as this lack of merit, which can mean quite a lot of things, so it is an absolute rubber rule, unfortunately. But here's the ratio of 1,25 to the number of hours. This will insanely distinguish the faculty of the university, as there are a lot of students in the administration department, with a lot less instructors in its proportions, such as other professional faculties, so that even in the field of defence, law enforcement and national security, there are typically few students, which is simply due to the nature of the studies and the field of science. There will therefore be a huge imbalance between these arms, and this kind of approach will be at the absolute disadvantage of the professional faculties. I would also like to point out that, for example, courses in professional faculties, including in the military field, in the law enforcement area, are not taken into account by this ratio, only the basic and master classes, so it also distorts. I would like to highlight the point where, in the event of a change of legislation, the job can be filled with someone else by the employer, the university's management, so that public employees can be replaced. I would ask you here what you are about to do, because otherwise this seems very ominous and, in general, similar changes are followed by very serious, even structural restructurings. So the question arises that there is such a plan in the future, that they may want to terminate certain departments, that they want to fire people on the pretext of it. I would also like to highlight the point which is also very talkative and, moreover, does not provide a meaningful solution to the possibility of granting a maintenance exemption from the maximum age limit for the management mandate, so obviously we are talking about the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office in this case. It seems to me that this would try to remedy or at least bridge the problem of simply no instructor supplies. It is not tricky, it is not improving statistics, it is not constantly changing the rules, it is creating its own stock at the university. You need a teaching staff, it's at least about a decade. That's something to be prepared for, that's something to be dealt with. Once again, I ask you not to adjust the rules to the deteriorating situation, but to resolve these things. Finally, I would like to mention the point where, in the case of a student with a professional or contract staff, foreign studies will require, for example, permission from the commander of the military and the prior authorisation of the head of the paramilitary services. It's not good for anything but bureaucracy. There has been, for example, military Erasmus training, which has worked perfectly and could be resolved without any extra bureaucracy. I would like to move to the laws on foreign representations and permanent foreign service. Again, I must say and I am pleased that Mr Secretary of State is here, because I think that he is extremely competent on this subject, that again we will not know this part of the bill, just like the previous three or four amendments on this matter. I have said many times myself that it should be about the External Action Service, that there should be a law of service on the foreign affairs career, not specifically on the external service. And a number of things have been added to this after its first adoption, essentially burdening ambassadors and consuls with some amazing administrative tasks. Basically, there should be real estate experts, real estate agents in one person, just like accountants and accounting rules are extremely well-known. In essence, this law contains such technical terms relating to accounting rules, which is completely incomprehensible why it should be incorporated into a law and that it should be included here. So my question would continue to be when these people will be able to serve Hungary's diplomatic representation. When can you deal with foreign economic issues, which are very important to you, at least in communication? And it seems that when it comes to government businesses, which mostly migrate into private pockets, they will be able to deal with high-profile, but with classical diplomacy and external economic issues that are also relevant and important to Hungary. Because basically now, they can and must choose the color of the wall paint, not focus on diplomatic tasks, so this kind of approach remains unsupportable. This law reflects an absolute accounting perspective, a lot of things that don't belong here, so that there should be a comprehensive law on foreign affairs services. Unfortunately, that's not what the debate is about. And I would also like to highlight a third element, which, in my opinion, is extremely important, and this is the publicity of the data. One thing is certainly apparent from this package of amendments, and this is that it is terribly unpleasant for the foreign affairs wallet, as I see it, and for the rest of the wallets, only I have about 40 edges in progress towards various ministries, data requests lawsuits, and, of course, we are taking everything to court, and we are going through these things, because it is data of public interest. You're very, very disturbed by the need for data in the public interest. You are deeply disturbed when you lose a lawsuit and you have to give the Hungarian people the data that is otherwise of public interest and, of course, public, which is mostly about what their money is used for. [[14.20]] For example, it is clear that resources that are given to companies as grants would also be tried to hide them. By the way, we're talking about tens of billions of dollars, so it's not small money at all. It is clear that those that are given to actors with political backs and subsidies to companies would now try to block information from the public, information about foreign corporate affairs and preparations, and instead of reporting, they are essentially excluded from the public interest. So I really have to tell you, this is a joke now. I would like to ask what national economy disadvantage we are talking about and what national security risk we are talking about when data disclosure works, as these are data of public interest. And when you mention a national economy disadvantage, Secretary of State, let me ask you to consult with the Russians on this. I ask this because I would like to inform you, but I hope that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has any idea of this, that the Russian Ministries' website regularly has details of these meetings, it is regularly there to discuss what kind of business you are discussing. I think that it is really outrageous now that in Hungary it is necessary to know what the actors of the Hungarian government are doing abroad, what negotiations they are conducting, that we must go to the website of the Ministry of Hungary and read it there. I don't know how you think this is going to happen at first, but I would suggest that you discuss it with us, because now it will be passed by law that these data will be blocked from the public, which, I think, is a problem, but you know that this will obviously have a fast, but all the information from there will be available from the Ministry website of that country. I wonder if you can get that information out of there, by the way. So, so much for national disadvantages or benefits. Unfortunately, I have to say that so far the Hungarian people have not experienced much advantage from these businesses. And let me mention here, for example, that on several occasions I asked questions about the future of the Danube Vehicle Repair, they refused to answer any of the questions. Compared to this, it has now been revealed, after about a year of asking questions, that they simply played this company for the Russians. In addition, it is equally important to say that a Russian helicopter assembly plant is being set up in Hungary, and this is also being discussed. So I think that it is possible to try to keep these away from the public, but what is open to law, of course, we will all use it so that the Hungarian public can learn about this information of public interest. And here I would like to get to the personal data, their service and contact details. You, Secretary of State, do know that if you go to an embassy's website, you have the name of each employee, your official contact information, so I ask you, what is such a huge risk, or if there is such a huge risk, what are these data doing there at the moment, it is not a problem now. It is very interesting why they want to keep them from the public; it will also be interesting that from now on the name of an ambassador and his contact details will not be public, I do not know how he will do his job, if he has time to do anything else while choosing wall paint. It occurs to us that they may want to hide things from the public that are already being held by actors who are not employed in other jobs and who may have had their time, whether they are fallen representatives of the local government, do not give up, God, they would like to put them in these positions, and they would like to shut this kind of process away from the public. I would just like to say here that everyone sees this very clearly and knows it very well, so if that is a purpose, I must say that it is unfortunately too late for that. I have one more specific question for the Secretary of State on this subject, and it is that the bill on the disclosure of personal data mentions the Information Office, the Minister for Intelligence, that is to say, that he makes decisions. I'd like to ask what he has to do with the data disclosure of personnel, because it doesn't have anything to do with personnel in itself. The fact that the Minister for Information and Foreign Affairs, the Foreign Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, are now congregating is a certain condition, we have seen in recent years that everything has been here, and the Office of Information has also belonged to the Prime Minister's Office. If, God forbid, you would return there again, because this opportunity has given you this opportunity, I would ask you, for example, what would the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office have to do with the publicity of personal data of those on foreign representation and diplomatic service. So I'd like to hold on to that question any way I can. Also, if you are talking about any risk or the safety of those who work there, do you not think that when you are exempted from the detention of certain data, such as the name of the Ambassador, Consul and even X.Y., your contact information is public on the website, and the name of certain persons suddenly disappears from there, this is not the cause of the risk. So I think we're seeing the rush again, but again, they haven't thought through these laws, they're sucking everything into a salad law again. So because of the problems that have been caused in these three areas, which are quite large and serious, which this law will contribute to, which you have implemented so far, we will not be able to support this entire package of amendments. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-06-13-82	Thank you, Congresswoman Márta Demeter. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Two minutes to speak, Congressman Tamás Harangozó, MSZP.
u2019-06-13-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just want to finish my previous thought with Mr. Secretary of State. He said among the arguments that the reason why the decisions, path, and report of these hundreds of billions of forints are needed is because it is very disturbing to the government that the Hungarian state may suffer a disadvantage here during the negotiations; that it is possible here to see how much money we give to one or another company, then the third company will have a bloody eye. I don't know, by the way, how it happened in the last 30 years, but then I would like to suggest that if you are serious about this, and you say it with an unshakeable face, and you may even believe it, then, please, Mr Secretary of State, do not stop here, do not do half-work. Well, what a scandalum it is, Mr. Secretary of State, that in the budget law, for example, you can see that 50 billion is now being spent on this annual basis, and 80 billion next year! I'm gonna need you to encrypt the budget right now. What will these companies say? They're gonna figure out where you're gonna spend all that money, Mr. Secretary. It is simply untenable, ridiculous, what they are saying, and I think that it is not only irresponsible, I say it once again, but it also violates illegal, anti-law and EU rules, so that they want to hide the fate of hundreds of billions of forints of taxpayers' money from the public. And I really hope that the court will still have the right and the power to put this madness in order. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-13-84	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. If you wish, I will give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr András Sztáray, State Secretary.
u2019-06-13-85	Mr President, thank you very much. In short, I would like to reflect on one or two comments, because I think it is important to understand the provision of the law. So the first question is: we are discussing the three issues in a proposal because they all have public service aspects that are horizontal and therefore this proposal is based on three pillars. My second comment concerns the Foreign Service Act. In the fall, there was an amendment that I was already involved in personally, and I also said that it was a nearly 30-year-old omission that there was no law covering foreign service issues. This government has now replaced this failure. It's one of the elements. The other is that the circumstances are constantly changing, so the fact that there are new amendments can be clearly explained by the fact that there are changing circumstances, and there is also a global activity, which means that there are objective variables independent of us, because in the countries to which we send foreign representations and foreign representatives, there are also changes. So in this sense, we need to adapt and adapt this law to real life. [[14.30]] And the diversity of tasks for foreign representations and ambassadors is linked to the fact that there has been a conceptual change in recent years, which has decided that foreign representations should be given greater autonomy so that they can operate more independently, and this process has been going on for years now. As an ex-practical ambassador, I can also say that this has many advantages in everyday practical work, since it is not always necessary to turn to the Centre in every case, but the Ambassador has the right to deal with a number of cases in which he has not acted before. The third is data protection issues. I think that in an open session, you can't go into the details of these things, or your personal parts. [[Márta Demeter interrupts.]] or its procedural part, and for this it would also require a C-type national security certificate for all those involved in the dispute. [[Márta Demeter: Make it a closed session!]] [[Márta Demeter: Make it a closed session!]] Now, in this sense, I think that anyone who has seen such a trial knows how sensitive it is, so in this form and in this current session, I think that we cannot even go into the details. (Márta Demeter: Be a closed session!) The fourth is changes in the regulations relating to the National University of Public Service. It has not been said how many guarantees are included in these amendments, by the way, so I could now go through the fact that the university is obliged to offer a job corresponding to these competences to a person whose qualifications or qualifications or professional qualifications would not otherwise be adequate for the performance of a given job, and if he does not accept it or if there is no job that the university could offer, it is possible and must be justified and not applicable if the person undertakes to meet the listed requirements for effective care of the tasks within the time limits provided for by the university. The other version is a lack of merit, and there are cases of conduct-related work-related evidence-based behaviour where a person at work or outside of the workplace engages in conduct that seriously destroys the university's reputation and does not perform his duties with the professional vocation expected from the fund. Here, too, it should be possible to learn the facts, and the data subject may present his defence. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The so-called softening of accreditation rules is also a complex issue, since the autonomy of the National University of Public Service is a special autonomy, since it also serves the needs of the public interest and the public service, so in this sense, whether in exercising the powers of the employer or by contract of contract, it is all justified to have special provisions and special regulations. As regards why you need to create a position as chief campus director, here, if I remember correctly, the KDNP representative has listed how much development has been made in the field of infrastructure in recent years in relation to the NKE, now, thanks to these and the expanding activities, it is understandable that there is a need for a manager position that organises and operates all of this. In this sense, we are therefore aiming for a safer operation with the proposal. We will return to the other questions, if possible, in the committee debate. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-13-86	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Péter András Sztáray. Dear Parliament, We have until 4 p.m. on Friday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law amending certain laws relating to media services will follow until closure. The government referral is T/6355. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] First, I give the floor to Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame.
u2019-06-13-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, There are several reasons why we are discussing the legislative proposals on the agenda today, above all a legal harmonisation obligation: we need to transpose the EU directive on audiovisual media services into the Hungarian legal order; we also need to ensure consistency with domestic legislation; there are also amendments in the bill proposed by the regulatory authority on the basis of practical experience and which increase efficiency; finally, another group of amendments are justified by the new types of media instruments that have emerged in recent years. As for the details, allow me to start with the protection of minors. In the future, the personal data of minors will be better protected and their personal data will not be processed for commercial purposes. Another change is to limit advertising of non-advised foods and beverages to minors, which are not recommended for excessive consumption. And last but not least, the programme for minors under the age of 14 for more than 30 minutes published in the linear audiovisual media service will only be interrupted once per 30-minute period. The legislative package also pays particular attention to people with disabilities. The current regulation only applies to hearing impaired persons, and we want to expand the range of those who need special attention. Interpreting provisions include an undefined concept, the video-sharing platform service. The purpose of the definition is to include these services in the general regulatory framework of the law and in the authority of the media authority. The rules on the different procedures of the NMHH and the Media Council will be clearer, and it is also important to amend that if a service provider under the jurisdiction of another EU country directs its service to Hungary, the Media Council may request the official action of the Member State concerned. The legislative amendment, the proposal also includes new rules on television and radio, which are minor changes within the current basic regulatory framework. These include reducing the administrative constraints of social service providers, which will make it easier for public service, community and thematic providers to launch new programmes. As regards the modification of the frequency of channel allocation, public service media service providers are in the first place here, and in the future, what changes is that the order will be determined by a public service register. International patterns have also been taken into account by the government, and on this basis I can tell you that the regulation will be similar to the British, Finnish, French and Austrian regulations in this sense. There are elements of the bill that aim to make regulation clearer and to reduce the debate on interpretation. For example, the proposal clarifies and clarifies, in line with previous practice, that a one-off fixed-term extension of media service rights is a decision based on discretion within the scope of ownership rights, not an administrative matter and not an administrative activity. At the same time, the period of entitlement to media service will be longer: for radios, the basic period will increase from seven to ten years, and the extension option will increase from five to seven years for both televisions and radios. Longer operational eligibility will mean greater predictability. Another amendment is intended to improve the functioning of the existing legislation. As a general rule, for radio frequencies, the assessment of the ownership concentration extends to direct and indirect owners with a stake in the media service provider. The amendment also proposes that service providers with so-called significant influence in the future provide non-interruptible news broadcasts during prime time, of course they will be able to provide other news broadcasts during other periods. In the press, too, there was a lot of publicity about the royalty amendment. The amendment was originally considered necessary by the government because it wanted to clarify what was and is not covered by joint management. In recent days, we would like to thank the Government for their feedback, which has been agreed with several actors, many performers, and on this basis the Government will submit an amendment. [[14.40]] On this basis, the copyright section will be amended so as to maintain the royalty after repetition, but the current legislation will be amended. The essence of this is that the collecting organisation can charge a fee or cost only once, any royalty after repetition will have to be paid in full by performers and rightholders. Thus, costs can also be reduced and performance artists' aspects will be taken into account. Dear House, To sum up, these are legislative amendments which provide greater protection for minors, greater support for people with disabilities, take into account technological changes and, last but not least, can bring more efficient, predictable operation on the Hungarian media market. On this basis, we ask for the support of this House. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-13-88	Thank you, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mrs Mónika Dunai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2019-06-13-89	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz Group supports the submitted legislative amendment package. The bill, which we have just started to discuss, contains several important elements. One of its main elements is harmonisation of laws. The European Parliament and the Council 2018/1808. Directive 2002/92/EC amended the previous Directive of the Member States on the coordination of certain provisions laid down by law, regulation or administrative action relating to the provision of audiovisual media services. The provisions of the Directive on short-term audiovisual media services or the AVMS Directive should be transposed into the legal system by 19 September 2020. This Directive was born in order to adapt to the changing media market, in which video-sharing platforms and user-generated content are increasingly important in addition to TV. The purpose of the amendment in these cases is to implement this transposition obligation in the Hungarian legal order. The Fidesz Group particularly agrees with the amendments that are being made to further protect and further protect minors. These include: the personal data of minors collected or otherwise generated by media service providers in a linear media service should not be handled for commercial purposes, such as direct marketing, profiling and behavioural targeted advertising. The commercial communication published in the media service should not provide minors with nutrients, additives or foods and beverages containing other food substances which are beneficial to their nutritional properties, which are not recommended for excessive consumption. The broadcasting of programmes for minors under the age of 14 cannot be interrupted in the future if the law is adopted by television purchases. A programme for minors under the age of 30 minutes published in a linear audiovisual media service may be interrupted only once per 30-minute period, including the duration of advertisements and pre-shows. The proposed legislation also provides for changes in the framework of advertising, such as a new, unregulated provision: separate television advertising and teleshopping will only be permitted in connection with the broadcasting of sporting events. The amendment of the law also addresses jurisdiction issues between Member States. If the service provider under the jurisdiction of another EU Member State directs its service to Hungary, in the event of a breach of domestic legislation, the Media Council may now request effective action from the Member State under whose jurisdiction the media service provider is subject. In this context, the Media Council may request that the Member State take action to eliminate the infringements identified by the Media Council. This means tightening up compared to the current legislation. In the event of the adoption of the law, accessibility for persons with disabilities will be increased. At present, as Mr Secretary of State has said, only hearing-damaged regulations are included in the Media Act. On the basis of this amendment, there will be a general obligation to seek accessibility, voice-over or loud subtitles for visually impaired people. Following the submission of the law, there is a need to put in place press coverage of legislation on the protection of minors and a number of opposition criticisms, perhaps for the sake of clarity. The amendment that is only available to viewers over the age of 18 seems to result in the same regulation as the one in force, but in fact, this amendment will result in a tightening of these cases. Currently, coded radiation is an exception to all relevant requirements, so there is no general prohibition and the media law has only a recommendation option. On the other hand, on the basis of the amendment, the relevant rule falls within the scope of the rules and the exception is removed, thus the authority of the NMHH is subject to control and sanction. There are also elements in the bill to reduce administrative burdens. Currently, a 35-percent television, a 40-percent audience radio, cannot launch a new media service and is obliged to take measures to improve the diversity of the media market by modifying its programming structure. An exception would be the amendment for the public media service provider and the thematic and community service provider. The purpose of the amendment in this case is to ensure the broadcasting of service providers for social purposes and their programmes without administrative barriers. The bill also proposes changes to news programmes. The share of news received from other media service providers with significant influence should currently not exceed 20 per cent per year. On the basis of the amendment, this ratio varies to 35 percent. The purpose of this amendment is to develop more flexible rules. The bill also proposes an extension of the duration of the media service entitlement. Currently 7+5 years for radio and 10+5 years for television. If the amendment is adopted, it will be 10+7 years for both radio and television. The purpose of this amendment is to ensure a more predictable operation of the longer eligibility period. The package of legislative proposals submitted also includes amendments to the news programmes. The purpose of these amendments, as far as news programmes are concerned, is to ensure a non-interruptible news programme for major service providers in prime time. Once again, this applies to prime time, and at other times, news broadcasts can be provided according to different rules. [[14.50]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to look at the proposal and, if necessary, to submit amendments to it. Thank you very much for the Government's negotiations on the performing arts sector, which have been successful, and we also support the just announced amendment by State Secretary Csaba Dömötör. The Fidesz fraction, the Fidesz Group, as I mentioned at the outset, supports the proposed bill together with this amendment. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-13-90	Thank you, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. I now give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2019-06-13-91	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I feel a little cynical that both Mr Secretary of State and Mónika Dunai in his speech, I have not counted how many times he has said about this law that it is for the protection of minors. We are talking about a law that, contrary to your claim, does not tighten the display of pornographic content, but relaxes on this opportunity and does not tighten the content containing unjustified violence, but relaxes in its presentation. I feel a little cynical, but you know that. By the way, what you said was that from now on, the rules will be stricter, it's not true, because the exact opposite is true. Moreover, the bill before us concerns a number of pieces of legislation that sets out how media services are provided in detail. We are all aware of the importance of the media and its impact on the community, and it is therefore particularly important that media regulation be consistent, predictable and clearly respected. The regulation of broadcasting must take into account a number of different interests, often competing with each other, and a delicate balance must be found between these interests. In finding a delicate balance, the creators of the rules should essentially be guided by the values that are included in the preambles to the proposed laws. Unfortunately, however, the bill before us lacks all the value-based aspects that are intended to define the regulatory direction. The bill is 23. As a result of a minor amendment in Section 5 of the Act, the situation may arise, and here too, I think, in order to protect minors, so that the service provider can broadcast up to 72 minutes of contiguous advertising during prime time. Today, this is not possible, as a maximum of 12 minutes of advertising can be published in an hour under the planned provision of the law. This amendment is clearly an economic interest in advertising over the interests of the community, so I say this to my fellow Members who are fidesz against the interests of minors. The proposed amendment means serving the economic interests of advertisers and the advertising market in principle. The situation is similar with the pornographic content of the content that can be published, of course, for the protection of minors only, I think. The current legislation includes in particular pornography and unjustified violence as content which cannot be published in a linear media service but can only be accessed through on-demand media services. The amendment leaves a specific emphasis on pornography, which has a negative impact on the moral development of minors. This is a particularly bad symbolic message, if we take this into account, I think it is in line with your thinking that the proposer, Mr Zsolt Semjén, is a Christian Democrat Member, who at other times is so sensitive to Christian values, the importance of moral Christian education, in this case not; hunts should not be mentioned, should we not mention them? Another symbolic amendment, according to which media service providers can increase their tabloid content from the current 20 percent to 35 percent in their mandatory news programmes. This amendment violates the current law on information and information of the members of the Hungarian nation 5. It shall have the right to adopt or maintain any measure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. The proposed amendment, in its current form, explicitly violates existing legislation. The amendment package has a number of technical elements to ensure consistency with Ákr. or harmonisation of EU legislation, but I would like to mention again a number of unnecessary elements, including pornographicalisation or even harmful modification, maximizing the length of the newscasts and increasing the tabloid quota. It is even more a problem that it does not modify the flawed elements of the current media system, the one-party nature of media supervision, the dual, opaque structure of public media, its unbalancedness based on editorial principles, and its unsanctionability; there are still no public service requirements for municipal media; it has not been resolved to eliminate the media held by state resources, which is in principle market-based, and therefore we cannot support this proposal overall. But to see how constructive we are, I have tabled a number of amendments. Here you can see our amendments. [[He's showing it to me.]] These are the ones I'm asking you to consider. If you'll allow me, because my time still allows, I would like to say more or less what these amendments refer to. Article 1 However, we could have submitted a proposal for an amendment to Section 2 of the Act, since this would have been about facilitating the lives of programme producers and distributors in the first place at the expense of performers. But when the government comes forward with such suggestions and confronts people they don't want to mess with, here with nearly 3,000 performers how bad it would have looked if these performers, these opinion-forming people, had said their honest views on the government! So you're withdrawing it, and you're blowing a retreat right away, because, as Secretary of State said, they're negotiating with the performers, and they realize that it's a good thing they're right, so don't be. The problem is that, Mr. Secretary, you know, I think that laws should be made so that, when you have such a good idea, you should have gone to the performers, they have a lot of organisations that could have been negotiated with, and you should have asked them in advance what their opinion was. That's how all the laws should be, and then you could've solved these messes. Then the 11th and the 14th. §, on which we have tabled an amendment, we will, of course, propose the abolition of these sections. They provide for the legalisation of porn, so we are really trying to protect minors, because there is no reason to liberalise their current legislation. Anyone who wants to has a way of accessing such linear content right now. This amendment would make practical sense only to allow government-neighbouring businesses and pro-government media conglomerates, and KESMA televisions, to broadcast pornographic content from public money in late-night hours. That would be the point, after all. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: You would be allowed to make half an hour's advertising in prime time instead of 12 minutes so far. We have also tabled an amendment here. With this amendment, advertising time could increase by half an hour in each hour of the prime time of linear media service providers. Beyond the inevitable decline in the enjoyment value of the programmes, the negative effects of advertising have already been confirmed by countless research. It is incomprehensible for a Christian government to present such a hypercapitalist proposal. We therefore propose that you withdraw it. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: The proposal in Section 4 would maximize the length of the newscasts in 45 minutes, while, of course, raising the tabloid quota that had previously been included in the law as a better proposal from 20 percent to 30 percent. Interestingly, even the rapporteur did not want to justify his intention to limit the length of the newscasts. Moreover, this senseless tightening can be easily bypassed, so we recommend that you delete it. In other twists of the amendment proposal, it would also abolish morning news and increase the limit of the tabloid quota. The latter, of course, is not surprising, since the government's favorite newscast, TV2 Facts, has repeatedly received a number of false TV programs that have failed to comply with these provisions of the law. [[15.00]] The Media Council, composed exclusively of Fidesz members, stood by, but the solution would not be to relax, but to enforce the law. Point 31 is replaced by the following: §, which increases the length of the media service rights from week to ten years, the extension from five to seven, this has no other purpose than to place in fidesz hands the Media Council of purely fideszes to be elected for decades. It is clear that you have not talked much about this in recent minutes, since the amendment would unduly increase the length of radio media service rights. The increase in the period of entitlement and the renewal of the Media Council this year, where only Fidesz members are expected to be elected once again by the pro-government majority, should pay close attention to ensuring that radio media service rights remain in the hands of government-wide businesses until 2045! This goes well 15 years beyond the year 2030 appointed by the Prime Minister, who insists on power and nails, as the age limit for his reign. I can't believe we have to overdo it. If your bright-eyed leader has only planned for 2030, then I don't think you need to submit legislative proposals that will cement these things until 2045, but once again we are faced with something that may not be understandable. Then the 41st. § I see that my time is running, if I don't get to the end, then I'll press for another normal speech, which is also the proposal to strengthen the fidesz media concentration, with which you intend to increase the influence and market power of NER knights and KESMA. Of course, we have also tabled an amendment to this, as the Jobbik Movement for Hungary, as a opposition party, cannot stand by and see that, as an undesirable way of achieving fully opinion monopolies and a significant market share, the acquisition must therefore be prohibited by those already entitled to media service in order to acquire any degree of participation in other media service providers, as opposed to the liberalisation efforts of the original proposal. Article 47 This is the usual mix-up here with the management of the fund, which is a disaster anyway. The following amendment, which would try to resolve this messy situation, has also been submitted, as we also have some problems with this proposal, and I will try to save time, and then there is one that I will miss, but I may come back to it, so I think it is very important for the Secretary of State to manage public funds and to enforce the generally accepted budgetary principles regarding the use of public funds. From the principle of unity and completeness, for example, it follows from the general requirement of Germans and transparency as well as from the general requirement of transparency that the budget of the media authority be approved by the Parliament as part of the public finances or as part of the central budget of Hungary. The State should sum up its total revenue and expenditure in one budget so that public finances are transparent throughout the entire budget and can be monitored by Parliament. By the way, I would like to draw your attention to the principle of unity and completeness, which was already enforced by our government accounting law published in 1897. Due to the requirement to discharge public finances, the credibility of the NMHH's annual financial statements should be certified by the State Audit Office responsible for the control of public finances. The head of the media authority may be relieved of the responsibility for the management by the Parliament in the light of the Court's certification. So far, the legislator has not provided independent financial control, i.e. auditing, of the NMHH's financial statements. Both the Accounting and the Public Finance Law apply the principle of gross accounting, according to which there are no public funds tied up, and consequently the expenditure of the media authority and its budgetary support can no longer be determined at the expense of its sources of revenue. The management autonomy of the media authority is not unlimited. As a result of the budgetary principles of detail and flexibility, neither the President of the Authority nor the Media Council may be granted powers which would allow for an unlimited transfer between appropriations approved by Parliament. It is proposed that the limit would otherwise be only 10 per cent. Here, I thank you for your opportunity, for your patience, and I will continue. Thank you so much for listening. [[Anita Kőrösi and Anett Versus applaud.]]
u2019-06-13-92	Thank you very much, Congressman György Szilágyi. I now give the floor to Congressman Gyula Molnár, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2019-06-13-93	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The government has taken a bold and decisive step again and again, and we look with great respect towards this courageous and decisive step. We see that they are in great momentum. Last day, the Secretary of State was in there less, but here we were able to have a very serious debate, there was a lex Czeglédy, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences destroyed, and then there were two salad laws, which led us to the deer, so to the root of it, when we were able to rip the leaves off the salad, and to our surprise, we found such miracles in it as the Balaton Law. So yesterday was very exciting, and then we arrived at the media bill. I would also like to note that it would have been the right, Mr Secretary of State, if, on the basis of the experience of recent years, the transformation of the media law had been brought in, they would have taken into account the vast number of professional opinions, political opinions and foreign opinions which would explain why the current media law is inoperable, unfair and disproportionate, and would not hide or hide behind an EU directive and modify certain parts. I would like to take advantage of this opportunity to present my position and our position to such a large and broad public. I would like to say that there are free press products in Hungary, there are free and courageous journalists, but overall, this is no longer a free press in the European sense, which is in Hungary. You are talking about media balance, restored media balance in the statement. Sometimes we listen to the Prime Minister with a humid and tearful look, who says that if only he had the same treatment that Balliberal politicians get here. This is when the cover of the 19 county newspapers is posted, or 15 or 16 from the website with the same picture, with the same text. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and Gentlemen, According to experts' measurements, if we draw public television to you, and perhaps we do not make a big mistake in terms of communication, 77.8 percent of the media in Hungary today are pro-government and close to government. In addition, and I did not say that the 22 are, of course, with the opposition, and that they are also treating us in these places, let us add, Mr Secretary of State, that this is an extraordinary turnoff. The track is down because there are differences in resources in free and independent media and media close to government, which are virtually incomprehensible to human intelligence in advertising costs, budget subsidies and all other access assistance, and yet sometimes try not to make certain channels available to certain service providers. So it's not enough that there is this 77,8 percent, it's not enough that these media are filled with public money, while they even insert technological problems or barriers to less people's access. It follows that today there is a significant part of Hungarian society, for which I think that the kind that we think is free to make opinions, and not an attack like you, but that we believe that there is such a thing, that you have a different view of the world, and that we are talking about it, that it does not reach a significant part of people. [[15.10]] But let's talk about the law here. You said it was a legislative harmonisation document. I'm willing to accept it. This was also mentioned here by a Member at a record speed, the November 2018 directive. I am pleased that from this point of view, the EU Directives are now passing through the Hungarian legal order so quickly. It wasn't always like that, and that's not what the posters have been suggesting lately. Actually, that's okay, or it wouldn't be too bad. But then there's this formula that you may have used in a similar way now, that you're trying to get through minor changes in the practice of law enforcement here, which raises certain things. I myself am going to bring up nine of these issues, which, by the way, is spookily moving towards what the Congresswoman said as a lead speaker, and my fellow Member, who is a betterman, I would just like to interpret them a little bit, but I promise you, I will be very brief. It seems that in the Media Council case, you still left an error in the law the other day, because there was still such a right of discretion, there was such an appeal for anyone who had the opportunity, and now it has been removed for good. So there's nothing left. What the Media Council, elected by you and composed exclusively of party soldiers, says is in no way to turn against it. So that's how you understand what you're saying here as an achievement. From now on, what the Media Council says doesn't mean there's any sort of apella. From seven to ten years they increase the opportunity for the players. I would say that this is perfect under market conditions, because people are making very serious investments here, but I have been talking about it all this time: there are no market conditions. I don't want to repeat Mr. Szilágyi, he's calculated what it means. In fact, this is all about embossing media players beyond cycles, who, where appropriate, are willing and able to make governments that are not sympathetic to them impossible. In the matter of news for up to 45 minutes, I myself believe that this is completely unnecessary. I don't feel like I'm gonna get screwed in this respect by anyone, but if you want to control me so much, I'm an older person than you, or if I look around, maybe I'm the oldest person in this room right now, I don't know; there's been an excellent time here in Hungary for decades. Hungary sat in front of the television at 7:30. At 7:30 p.m., when everyone was home, people didn't go to the pub. At 7:30, the Hungarian people sat in front of the television, and they watched the news by 8:00, with weather, sports, politics, and at 8:05, the Blue Light began. Why don't we just get on that? Let's just say that the government says that we have to watch the news for everyone from 7:30 to 8:00, that's mandatory, 30 minutes, and then whoever wants to add something to their own money does it, but make sure it's mandatory. It is not clear why I have read somewhere that this is against RTL, they do not think that any commercial television will not be able to play it if it is really necessary, because 45 minutes is enough to tell you the necessary topics that day. Increasing the tabloid from 20 to 35 again is unclear. It's another weighing. Again, we couldn't decide which was considered a no, but I'm sorry, it's a bit of a disdain for Hungarian media consumers. So what they're saying is, they're suggesting that we push media consumption in the direction of less demanding shows, but we're also trying to break up the news blocks, make it more visible, so that there's a lot more murder and a lot more tabloid stuff. I do not want to run into the simple trap of the position of the president of the Christian Democratic Party on porn, because this is likely to be a sensitive issue. But I'm really telling you the truth about XXI. We are in the century, do you really think that what is written there is, in this respect, a ridiculous position of the European Union, that there are electronics and technical and technical solutions now that the child will not have access to the world where he can actually view anything on video-sharing channels? If we allow this thing into the media that is otherwise accessible by pressing a button, then there is no parental technique to limit it in any way. Today, my younger and bigger child is better at tech than I am. I have to learn that, and he's got it in his hand and in his head. So I would assume or think that, when a Christian-based party has been fighting Brussels for years, it will prevent fundamental things from coming in from Brussels, and it will put this on the front page for itself, why not tell Brussels that it is not in Brussels, even if it is in that directive. Yeah, he's in. Why don't you just say that we're gonna take over ten things, and I'm sorry, but we're not gonna take this. Once again, I don't want to slip into this delicate orbit much more, and I'm not going to deal with it any more than that right now, but I just want to ask you this simple rhetorical question. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] In the rerun royalty, if I understand correctly, they've been broken, correctly. I just read the numbers, it was 330 million forints a year, and 9200 people. In light of the fact that I think there are 90 billion people in the community, maybe this 330 million wouldn't have caused a big break. Congressman Szilágyi said that the distribution of advertising time is really unclear. There was a regulation, you didn't have to like it very much either. I also sensed that in the more exciting parts of the film the ads will be pushed a little bit, but now it will really be that in that band, in those 12 hours, it will be possible to compress virtually all the advertisements for that period of 7-10 hours. Again, I don't understand what's good about this, it's not quite clear. With regard to the growth of European films from 25 percent to 30 percent, I again ask the simple question, I think it is right, I think it is very good, but once again, here we have a political trench between us that there are national parties, and there are non-nationals, the parties in Brussels interest, and you are bringing in, in virtually five months, the perfect adoption of a Brussels directive, and you are not watching in any way, and you are not looking at why this is good for Hungarian interests. Hungarian actors would have been hit with that thing, to the detriment of Hungarian films, to increase the number of European films, to try to keep violent content away from children in some mechanical way, so they take over a number of things that I think may be unnecessary and not very useful. I look forward to the proposal on video-sharing platforms. I think this is a real problem, by the way, with which I believe that the 21st century is a real problem. This is something that needs to be addressed in the first century, and if it can be helped to create a consensus across parties, I think this is really important. When you do a little bit of this, you can see exactly how our children now have access to content that is certainly not useful for their own spiritual development. So, Mr Secretary of State, fellow Members, I may not be surprised that, unlike the Fidesz, we will not support this proposal. Now I do not ask Mr Szilágyi's remaining amendments for the remaining few minutes; I just want to say that when I read this whole thing, I thought of the folk wisdom in this regard that you are making jam instead of jam. It's hard to get used to it on pancakes, but eventually, you can get used to it. That's how you are with the media. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2019-06-13-94	Welcome, fellow Members. Thank you, Congressman, for your speech. I now give the floor to Mr Zsolt Gréczy, on behalf of DK.
u2019-06-13-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Let me start by saying that there are few stories of this government that one can listen to with sympathy, who has a little...
u2019-06-13-96	Congressman, if you'll excuse me, I'll count the microphone in your time, because it's going to crack.
u2019-06-13-97	He's got a bit of a loose clip, so I'm gonna do it this way.
u2019-06-13-98	Okay, we can try...
u2019-06-13-99	I used to do this a lot, so I remember the move. So, I'd like to point out my concern about the fact that of the few things that one looks at with sympathy from this government's activities, even one of them could be eliminated, it was the channel called M3, and I don't even understand why it had to be eliminated, because from at least eight channels of the current Hungarian Television, outside the sports channel, it was the most watched channel. I do not claim that he has made records, and, let's say, he competed with the view of a Sylvester Stallone film, but I do not know why people had to be deprived of the fact that if we consider the archive of the Hungarian Television as part of the Hungarian cultural heritage in it with Klári Tolnay, Zoltán Várkonyi, Iván Darvas, Margit Dayka, Sándor Pécsi, but I could say that Illés, the Omega band and many more, why this had to be simply abolished. I think that national culture is part of the archive of Magyar Television. In addition, the regulation that was then introduced to be posted on the Internet, well, the target audience that watched this channel will not go on the Internet, and these content will not even be found there. So I think it was a serious mistake. I hope that this can still be corrected or modified. For me, for example, this was the first channel for many of my acquaintances, which he set himself up to do, if he did not want to do politics, but to watch old theatre broadcasts or classic Hungarian films. I would like to draw the attention of the authorities on this matter. [[15.20]] And as for the present story, I too slapped my knee loudly when I saw that Zsolt Semjén, obviously wanted porn on television in prime time to the greater glory of Christian democracy. And then I realized that I had a solution, probably the, come home, young! As part of the program "Semjén Zsolt" could have thought of Ilona Staller. So I've already written down the whole puvoir, the mood of the whole thing. That's one of the things that hit my ear. However, I could continue by saying that it was not very clear why thousands of artists had to be humiliated with this barely 300 million HUF repetition royalty. But I was hoping, and finally, that this regulation would have had a strong impact on the artists who were applauding on Viktor Orbán's various ornaments, perhaps snoring satisfiedly, while listening to the year-end speech in one of the cultural centers. But after all, they have achieved what they want, and at least this regulation has been made. Nor is it very clear what my colleague György Szilágyi called attention to as to why various radio commercial channels should be cemented by 2045. I would like to point out that Viktor Orbán will be 82 years old in 2045, and he will be able to wave from the showcase with his hairy eyebrows, like Comrade Brezhnev. So that's the best you'll be able to do, seeing the political activity you're currently pursuing against your country. By the way, the serious irregularity in trying to cement companies and radio stations for such a long time is partly with the aim of serving them as long as the Fidesz power lasts, but if that does not happen, then the financial and technical means of trying to disable the activities of a new government should be recorded. I would also like to say that what is in Hungary is not freedom of the press, it is not freedom of the media. The fact that it is not possible to appeal to the Media Council is that everything is decided on the spot and there is no reply to it, it is completely unacceptable, and I add that it is completely contrary to your fundamental law, which DK has never adopted. All I would like to add to this story is that the 90 billion forints you spend on public service media I put the public service in multiple quotes are simply nothing but government propaganda. I also add that this government propaganda may be serving their domestic political interests in Hungary, but it is one of the scandals of what we are experiencing in Brussels, and the European Union's objections to the media conditions in Hungary. This also needs to be changed. The law will, of course, not be supported by the Democratic Coalition, even if Zsolt Semjén might extend the possibility of pornographic content to the morning programme. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-13-100	Thank you, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. The first independent Member to apply may now speak to him. I give the floor to Congresswoman Venus Anett.
u2019-06-13-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I thought it was important to comment on this item because I really do not have any illusions, you will not accept the opposition proposals, but there are amendments to the current draft that cannot be passed without saying a word. I think about the changes in advertising times, that this is a new regulation that the market will correct, because if a large amount of advertising time goes into one of its main programming times, consumers will simply disburse certain media that take advantage of this opportunity. So we will be witnessing that, despite bad regulation, the media market is likely to continue to operate smoothly or relatively smoothly. However, what forms the rest of the new regulation is more than problematic. The fact that in the future the biggest TV channels are not required to operate news in the morning time bands even in 15 minutes means that the owners or editors can be desinformed in any way. We have already witnessed this, mainly thanks to MTVA on the Hungarian media market and thanks to media entrepreneurs close to the government. But I think it's really embarrassing to legislate. The fact that the proposal would increase the share of the maximum-release tabloid news within the news programmes from the current 20 percent to 35 percent: I wondered why they did not want to break this barrier, because then we could listen to the news that a small giraffe was born in the zoo, and that a man in Székesfehérvár robbed a pensioner in a helmet, or that T. Attila 39-year-old businessman's wife had been knocked off his hands in Krisztia Berki. It is possible to make such a news, but this is not called news, but rather some kind of bull exchange rate, and I think that such a legislative proposal is extremely embarrassing for current power. But I don't see the spark of shame in you either. According to the current rules, it was not possible to publish content in a traditional TV stream that is capable of seriously harming the physical, mental or moral development of minors, in particular as regards pornography, extremists or unduly violent content. If you break this limit, even though you talk about coding and the fact that only subscribers over the age of 18 will have access to these content, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow members of the Government that people under 18 are living in the homes of subscribers over 18 years of age, and there is no guarantee that the pornographic or unwarranted content that is encoded will not fall into the hands of people who are seriously affected. I am thinking, first of all, of young children, and of the fact that they may accidentally see content in prime time that is pornographic, violent, and thus affect their entire lives. There is no guarantee that these children will discuss these contents with their parents afterwards and receive some sort of ex post spiritual assistance in their home. I think that this possibility should also be excluded. It is no coincidence that these content is banished in the time and programmes typically limited to the sleep time of young children. So I think it is a very bad idea to change regulations in this way. Distributing or applying for radio frequencies: I think that the draft that is currently in front of us just admits that for you, a theatre is the redistribution of frequencies and tenders. Why take care of newer and newer applications at such short intervals, redistributing frequencies, as only media entrepreneurs close to the government can successfully apply for such frequencies. It is completely unnecessary to spend a minute judging these proposals, as we already know who the candidates are and who the winners are. I think that I have been able to sum up so briefly what is my main problem with the fact that beyond and beyond the harmonisation of legislation, I see that it is a forward-looking point that our fellow countrymen with disabilities are being helped by television or by the consumption of media content, but other than that, I think that this amendment package has been terribly successful, beyond what my opposition colleagues have already said, by the humiliation of the art world and by many steps that have already marked their policies in the media market. [[15.30]] I also think of what is in this package of proposals before us as pure cynicism, and I thank you for your patience and attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the opposition benches.]]
u2019-06-13-102	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now it is possible to make a two-minute comment. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai.
u2019-06-13-103	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to respond very, very briefly to three comments that have been made. Gyula Molnár asked, and he perceived a contradiction in Fidesz's position that we want to comply with EU legislation or not. I would like to point out that we have always said that we have followed EU legislation on migration and on border protection, and we are doing so now. There's no contradiction in that. My colleague Szilágyi also expressed his concerns about media efficiency and its monitoring. I would like to quote a few sentences from the State Audit Office statement. In 2018, the State Audit Office audited the Authority's activities and management between 2015 and 2017, and I quote the following statement - "The management of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority was good practice." The establishment and operation of its internal control system ensured the conditions for transparent and accountable public spending. The regularity of financial and asset management has supported transparent public spending and safeguarding public wealth. The integrity control system was built in a proportionate manner to the risks, and the integrity view was maintained. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. And I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there are two very important terms in this regulation for news programmes, one for, at least, for minutes, and the other without interruption. So a channel, a television, may choose to put on a news programme several times as a separate programme. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-06-13-104	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi in a normal time frame.
u2019-06-13-105	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Speaking of NMHH and SAO, you know who's in charge of the SAO, don't you, Congresswoman? László Domokos, an ex-fidesz representative, party member, I cannot believe that he is very important to examine the body controlled by Fidesz so normally. However, this is precisely what my amending proposal, one of the 14 of them, aims to be as much control as possible, so I ask the Member to look at these amendments and to support the amendment tabled by Jobbik in order to exercise greater supervision of the operation, management and financial spending of the NMHH. The other thing I would like to say as a reaction is that this bill is quite alarming and terrifying as it is. I would ask Zsolt Gréczy not to add such horrific visions as that of the great leader, Viktor Orbán, who was eighty-two years old, to wave to the people in 2045 from a VIP platform. I don't want to live to see that. I hope that doesn't happen. I pictured him as a visual figure when he said those things, and I had a pretty horrific image. Speaking of the salad laws of Gyula Molnár, I would like to continue to present the fourteen amendments that I tabled for Jobbik Hungary Movement. We have just arrived at a good piece of salad destabilizing, since the bill is 82. § 4, 5, 10, 21, 22, 26 and 27 will be proposed to leave points 4, 5, 10, 21, 22, 26 and 27 accordingly, the numbering will vary accordingly if the proposed amendment is adopted. Point 4 would remove the restriction on teleshop programming. So far, no more than three hours a day has been allowed to broadcast such programmes, and now, if they do not accept the exclusion, thematic broadcasters could also start in the future. I do not believe that this is in Hungary's interests. Point 5 would facilitate the lack of transparency of tender procedures by avoiding publication of tenders on the Media Council's website in the future. I don't understand why you want to do this. Point 10 would deprive the Media Council of the right to sanction the successful tenderer in the event of withdrawal. This is unjustified, since the law does not oblige the Media Council to do so, but has a discretion at present to apply it, which may have had some deterrent effect on the detention of frivolous or misguided applicants. Point 21 also weakens transparency: the decisions of the Media Council will not be published on its website in the future. This will make it even more difficult to supervise the work of a body of purely fidesz members, to see what is happening within the bodies of the press and opposition representatives. Point 26 would remove the powers of the Media Council to carry out the tasks of the public media service. Although this has not been dealt with by the Media Council, a body of normal composition should have the power to fulfil its tasks in public media. Point 27 would reduce the scope of qualifying participation, thereby further broadening media concentration opportunities for businesses close to the government. I would therefore ask both the Member and the Secretary of State to look at this amendment as well, since I believe that these are all forward-looking amendments which would improve this law. Article 17 is replaced by the following: In paragraph 4, we proposed that the following paragraph 4 be added. Paragraph 4 would say on the basis of our proposed amendment: Religious media content is limited to the CCVI 2011 on the right of freedom of conscience and freedom of religion and the status of churches, religious groups and religious communities. Churches recognised under law may provide services. Media content must not be aimed at harming the media consumer or abuse the freedom of religion and conscience to gain profit. Why would it be important for this amendment to be adopted? In recent years, media content of a kind has increased, which, abusing trust in media services and religious and conscientious freedom, typically harm and cheat Hungarians older people on the basis of various neopods or charlatan principles. Our proposal would ban their future appearances. The requirement to protect national values and symbols and to strengthen the faith in nation and national belongings is otherwise left out of media law as a basic rule. Let us look at this because we are returning to the protection of minors, which you have so referred to, that we have tabled a bill, an amendment that I recommend to you, if it is so important to protect minors, that they accept it and help them to make it appear in the law. The 2010 CLXXXV on media services and mass communication. Law hereinafter referred to as "Mtv. 10. Paragraph 1 (1) (b) is replaced by the following: this would be our proposal. Therefore, in a linear media service (b) the third category programme may be published between 17:00 and 05:00 with an appropriate indication. What does that mean? It means that in order to protect children between 6 and 12 years of age, it is recommended that programmes recommended for those over 12 years of age should only be viewed at a time when their parents can stay with them in accordance with the time band. This is also important because children of this age can handle televisions on their own. Therefore, this proposal would indeed serve the purpose of protecting minors. Then we suggested that Mttv. new 23/A. Add a new section, which would be another tightening up. [[15.40]] Our tightening up aims to prohibit the artificially supporting and maintaining of public procurement and public tenders, government-to-government businesses or public companies, or public-to-state media content providers with political ties. I think you'll agree with that, because what it would look like to take a utopian example, if there were a country where the government and the leaders in question would constantly give their friends, friends, relatives and everyone else public money, and with the money they took from the public, they would make these people billionaires, and then try to cement and maintain their own power by maintaining media from these money they gave their friends, which they would finance media, and they would only put government propaganda in people, as if they would do something like brainwashing to keep their power. So I think you do not agree with this, because this could assume the establishment of a dictatorial system, and I think that this should be stopped so that it can be like this in Hungary at all. So don't let a single government or a head of government or anyone else think that I'm going to give money to my friends, my family, and they're going to buy different TV stations, newspapers, the like, and these TV stations, the newspapers we're going to keep with this money, they're going to strengthen the government. So, I suppose you'll agree with that, so please support this amendment, so that it doesn't happen... Yeah, it's happened before because that's how you are now in power. Anyway, let's try to stop this. Good. The following proposal: Paragraph (1) of the Act would add the following point (d), which is similar or related to what I have just said, and this is that it cannot support media services or programmes, (d) the government and budgetary body, as well as the local government, an undertaking which has obtained an order of more than HUF 1 billion from the European Union, the government, any local government or state body during the previous three years, or an undertaking in which the Hungarian State or local government has a stake. So our tightening up is intended to ban public procurement and the artificially supporting and maintaining of government-owned enterprises or public-sector companies, or public-public media content providers. So we could give examples of this, and we could mention a lot of things from Lokal on TV2 and county papers and everything else, which is a reality at the moment, because you have fully implemented it. We believe that this should be blocked, by the way. I think that this amendment will not be supported, but if the others are accepted, then sooner or later, I think, we will also be able to do so and see if the world changes. Article 37 In paragraph 1 the following point (g) is added: The media service provider must keep it available to the public on a continuous basis, (g) the annual financial statements and the independent audit report on it, and the transparency report drawn up on the recommendation of the Media Council, excluding political influence. This is important because, for the sake of a transparent media market, we consider it important to ensure that the management of media businesses is transparent, in particular with regard to their revenues and where they come from. More detailed rules for creating transparency would be laid down by the Media Council on the basis of our amendment proposal. I ask you to read and consider these 14 amendments, as these are very forward-looking amendments and we would like them to be supported, even if they were to remove this media power that you have in this country. But the interest of the Jobbik Hungary Movement in this bill has been so aroused that we have decided, and I have decided, and we have a very good codification group, perhaps the best in the whole Parliament with which we have met and discussed that we will also try to change parts that are not opened now in this law, and I will present a separate bill in the days that will fully try to improve this law in relation to media services, so please consider this separate bill as well. Together, let us put in place the dictatorial, unilateral media information that is in Hungary at the moment and with which you are constantly deceiving people. Thank you so much for listening. [[Anett's clapping.]]
u2019-06-13-106	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Member István Happy in a normal time frame.
u2019-06-13-107	Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, I am very pleased that my colleague Anett Bősz and my colleague Szilágyi are also concerned about children. I am very happy about this, and I very much support the fact that we are protecting our children from sexual and other aberrations, so I ask them to do everything possible to prevent the forthcoming Pride parade from being held publicly. Everyone in the four walls is doing what they want sexually, and it doesn't bother me, it doesn't have an argument with me, but with nature, but if you're so concerned about the interests of children, then you'll be willing to prevent children from seeing half-naked people on the streets of Budapest. Because if it brings bad things, bad thoughts in a child, then I think that's it. So I'd like to draw your attention to this, too. I support your proposal, of course, and don't let children see this on TV or scenes where there are killings, that's very right, we agree, but I would like to ask you to support the fact that children don't see it on the street, because it's not good for their upbringing. [[Anett's intruding.]] And it's not good for them. I would very much like you to do this, Madam Congresswoman, because it is an important thing in the lives of children. I see that everyone wants it on television, especially on public television, what they want, but I am glad that it is not us, MEPs, that define what is on public television. I'd have wishes, I'd like them to give me a lot more national rock in public media, for example. [[Anett's intruding.]] A little romantic violence, Carpathia, Known Faces, Scythia, would be very good, but I don't define fortunately, but the professionals what they give on television. This is a very good thing, although I say it again, I have wishes for public media, but these wishes are in a minority, it seems, according to the polls, because obviously, if a lot of people asked to broadcast them, there would be more of them. So in order for their wishes to be met, we obviously need the professionals to determine what to give on a TV so that many people can see it. Congressman Gyula Molnár is gone, and I really like that he is concerned about media relations, and with one word he says that there is no media freedom, there is a dictatorship here, and with the other word he says that the free media is in a small proportion. It should be decided whether there is media freedom or not. One thing is certain: he is the representative of a party marked by Antal Apró and Ildikó Lendvai, the two principal tensors, I do not understand what he is talking about, censorship and dictatorship. Perhaps you should consider the successor party of the MSZMP, which is the successor party of the former Communist Party of 19 at the time, you should consider what you are saying about freedom of speech and dictatorship, because it does sound bad from their mouths. So I wanted to say this, and I continue to ask my colleague Anett Bősz, György Szilágyi and Jobbik, to support the fact that there are no public sexual parades on the streets of Budapest. I, of course, support the fact that on television, at a time when children can watch it, they cannot give violent and sexual content, we agree on this; I hope that what I am asking, we also agree that there should be no public sexual parades in Budapest, I think this is an eligible thing, no heterosexual, no LGBTQ or any parade. Everyone does their job within the four walls, that is where it belongs, and it is especially not for our children, because children do not have to grow up under these conditions. Thank you very much. [[Mónika Dunai applauds.]]
u2019-06-13-108	Thank you, Congressman. Two-minute comments are possible. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Versus Anett.
u2019-06-13-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that my fellow Member, István Happy, considers the emphasis of the Carpathian orchestra so important that he has already shared with us his opinion on media services in the Parliament horseshoe and not only at the Committee on Budgets, according to which there should be more national rock on M1. [[15.50]] I am very pleased to hear this, but I would like to draw your attention, honourable Member, to the fact that there is only one task for public television to consider the principles of equal treatment and equal dignity above all; that it should not distinguish social groups as you have done in your speech; that it should not violate its fundamental rights, neither humans nor social groups, as you do in your governance. And one more thing: balanced information. I do not care, my honourable fellow Member, whether you like national rock or not, or what kind of music you would like to hear from public television. What I'm interested in is that you've created a public service media that doesn't have a trace of balanced information. And I would like to remind you once again that we are not talking about a sexual parade when we talk about Pride. I understand that for you, this is a completely incomprehensible phenomenon, and I also see that you have saved yourself the work of understanding such processes; it also saves you the work of understanding any process of social processes, but this is your personal social problem. I hope that in the future M1 will serve your musical taste. I think we should not serve the taste of humiliating social groups. Thank you.
u2019-06-13-110	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi in two minutes.
u2019-06-13-111	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. The fact that István Happy did not read this bill was evident from this speech, since I am only helping you, neither Pride, nor what programs, what content to be on TV, was not included in the content of this proposal. But I'd like to enlighten you about something else, Mr. Happy Congressman. You're not an opposition representative. I beg you, they've been ruling for nine years. You've been in here nine years and you haven't noticed that you're a member of the ruling party? If you want Pride on the phone, go over there and tell your own government, who's gonna approve these parades? Viktor Orbán and his government have approved it for nine years, so if you don't like it, then go ahead and do something about it. [[Csaba Dömötör goes to István Happy.]] The other one. If you say that you are doing everything you can to help young people not to get close to pornographic content or content containing excessive violence, then all you have to do is go to you now as a pro-government representative, Csaba Dömötör; I think you said that you shouldn't speak again. [[Demercation from the benches of opposition parties.]] But go to Csaba Dömötör and tell Csaba Dömötör, or go to Zsolt Semjén and tell Zsolt Semjén to withdraw this bill. After all, this bill that you have submitted will be voted in favour of you as a pro-government representative, because you will vote for everything you submit, you will not be interested in what it is about, so tell them that it will make it much easier for young people and underage children to get pornographic content. It's that simple, Congressman. He's not in opposition! There's Zsolt Semyen sitting in front of you. You're a pro-government representative. Make sure that such proposals do not come before this House. Life would be much better if there were representatives in the pro-government benches who dared to take their opinions and not as a servant to them, pressing the buttons. So I think that you should trust Secretary of State or Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén with your problems. Thank you so much for listening.
u2019-06-13-112	Thank you, Congressman. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the agenda. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see a candidate. Thus, the general debate is closed and I give the floor to State Secretary Csaba Dömötör for a rejoinder.
u2019-06-13-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for your comments. I would also like to thank many of you for taking the time to read the proposal and even to make amendments. We will study these. They've touched on a lot of topics, and I'm trying to respond to a lot of them. I'll start with the smaller ones. It's a commercial time frame. The amendment to the advertising time frame stems from the transposition of the EU Directive, which is based on EU legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We always follow the relevant laws. We speak against the fact that if they want to take rights away from us, if we see stealth legislation, if they make decisions they can't make because they don't have the right to do so, we will raise our voice against it, but we will comply with our international obligations. In any case, the proportion of the advertising time frame does not change, but should be interpreted in a broader timeframe due to the Directive. As for NMHH, for example, its budget. His budget and his accounts are also accepted by the Parliament, the audit is ensured. Moreover, the NMHH is a separate regulatory body, the specific rules on farming are justified in view of its specific status. Finally, a question that has been touched by many, although it is no longer in the room, it can be seen that they did not necessarily mean it, and this concerns pornography. What I would like to say in advance is that I find it extremely unsatisfying that anyone, any citizen or any politician, is making jokes about their beliefs and religious beliefs. I don't think that's gonna fit. As far as the content is concerned, there have been a lot of untruths in this regard, and it is irrelevant that they come from deliberateness or superficial knowledge. I would also like to say to you here that such content, as it has been, will continue to be limited and even more stringently monitored on the basis of the amendments. If you read all the relevant legislative parts in the presentation, you will see that the broadcasting of such content will continue to be subject to strict technological constraints by being included in the mandatory requirements. Only encrypted and encrypted solutions will allow you to present such content. I would also like to read the relevant section to Mr Szilágyi, because he has mentioned so many times: the programme classified in this category can only be published if the media service provider ensures by appropriate technical means that the media service contains the programme number in an encrypted form and requires a code which has been made available only to the media service provider or the distributor over the age of 18 years, or if the media service provider uses any other effective technical solution in order to ensure that the programme number is only available to viewers or students over 18 years of age. Moreover, from now on, the authority will have control and sanctioning powers, not just the power to bid. Therefore, contrary to any statement to the contrary, the proposal contains restrictions. The goal is for the law to better protect underage viewers. Any statement contrary to that lies, fake-news, that's the case. [[György Szilágyi: How in practice? Give me an example, Mr. Secretary.]] Do not sit on certain articles or try to mislead the public. Moreover, the government is open to any proposal that would provide increased protection for minors. The things about copyright rights, I believe, have been clarified in the expozee. It's a matter of news. I think it's important. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, on the basis of this amendment, these news programmes should be uninterrupted in a certain time band, so that in many cases they can be longer. On the other hand, there will be nothing to stop the media from broadcasting more news programs, whether in prime time or outside, and they will have their freedom. The amendment sets minimum requirements in a certain programme band, apart from editorial freedom. As far as media service rights are concerned, the regulation applies to all market participants. I would just like to add and respond to what has been said, that it is not worth adding entitlement and extension, because, as we have said, the extension is not automatic. By the way, this was opposed by Congressman Gyula Molnár, so they also contradict each other. As far as the issue of freedom of the press in Hungary is concerned, first of all, the public television: Mr Gréczy, who can no longer be with us, praised the channel M3. That's a new voice from DK. So far, they haven't come up with any similar compliments, so I'm just sending him a message from a distance, if he can't be here anymore, I'd like to say that if you like a show, don't be stingy with praises. It is much better than opposition parties wanting to break into the public television building and demand to read certain content. [[16.00]] They couldn't have seen this from government representatives or government politicians, and it's much better to have such a dialogue about shows than to insult journalists in chicken costumes. Besides, I think that the Hungarian press is diverse, free, and that we all know from our own experience that it is quite outspoken, but I think that it is right. And the most important thing is everyone! You can find media suitable for your own needs, temperament and view of the world.Today, all opinions and information in Hungary can break their way, as in a larger EU Member State, not to report for days that hundreds of women have been insulted on a New Year's Eve night. I do not want to be a part of insulting the press, whether they love the government or not, but I would like to thank you here too because they are working daily to inform me of Hungary's most important events. I would add, however, that the television government critic, who calls himself the largest, is a strong government critic, and the portal that calls itself the largest is a highly government critic, so I have the feeling that sometimes the left-wing opposition is disturbed by the fact that there is even a right-wing public in Hungary. The fact is that the times when the Hungarian public only reported left-wing publicity and almost exclusively the sunrise show are over. These are no longer the times we live in, all opinions can appear in the Hungarian public, and unlike you, we regard this as a guarantee of freedom of press and opinion. Thank you for your comments and we are available in the debates of the following days. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-13-114	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. This brings us to the end of the discussion of today's agenda. No one applied for a post-meeting speech. I would like to inform you that the next meeting of the Parliament is expected to take place on 17 June 2018. With this, I thank you for your work, and the meeting will be closed.
