u2019-07-01-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The first day of the third extraordinary session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, I declare that Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén, on behalf of the Government, is the XXXVI of 2012 on Parliament. Law 35. On the basis of Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the Parliament initiated the convening of an extraordinary meeting on 1 and 2 July 2019. The motion and its annex can be found on the website by Members and interested parties. Dear Parliament, Today, July 1st, is the day of the birth of world-famous Hungarian physician Ignác Semmelweis, who was the foundation of the pathology of child-bed fever. He first pointed out the importance of hospital hygiene to prevent the terrible consequences of baby - bed fever. This day is also the health care workers' day. This is the case for the 2003 LXXXIV on certain issues relating to the pursuit of health activities. Law 15/B. It states that Semmelweis Day is also a public holiday for healthcare workers and healthcare workers who have an employment relationship with healthcare providers. This is a good opportunity to pay greater attention to the problems of workers in this sector, and to acknowledge and express our thanks for the sacrifice they have done, which is not enough for the knowledge acquired within the educational institutional framework, but must be complemented by years of work experience, deep dedication to the profession and desire to help. Thank you and respect for all health workers. Ladies and gentlemen, Last year we remembered the 200th anniversary of the birth of Ignác Semmelweis. On this occasion, the government declared the year 2018 the Semmelweis Ignatian Memorial Year. Connected to the Memorial Year in 2018 by the Health Secretary of the Ministry of Human Resources, Moss hand! He started a campaign with a password. During the campaign, attention was drawn to the importance of hand-washing, which is as important in the everyday life of healthy people as it is in preventing infections associated with hospital and health care. On the occasion of the bicentennial, a number of conferences, exhibitions and commemorations were held in Hungary. At the same time, Semmelweis's life's work was also held in a foreign country: in recent months a statue was inaugurated in memory of him in Tokyo, Maribor, Krakow and his important place of life in Vienna. This reflects the fact that science is not only a national value but also a universal value, the support and recognition of scientists is in the interest and responsibility of all mankind. And it is an honor for us Hungarians that our former compatriot has made a scientific discovery that saved the lives of thousands of mothers, and on which the subsequent generations of scientists could build solidly throughout the world. Dear Parliament, We will now begin a series of speeches before the agenda. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi, on behalf of Fidesz.
u2019-07-01-1	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Today is the 1st of July, the four points of the Orbán government's family protection action will enter into force at the same time: the baby shower support, the CSOK expansion, the extended version of the waiver of mortgage loans, as well as the car purchase support for large family members. By launching the action, we will help families with children, young people start their lives, have children and raise children. Let us see exactly what these measures are. First of all, we will introduce childbearing support for young families, which is a HUF 10 million discount loan in the form of today. It is important for me to say that families who are born in July will also receive the baby shower support. Under the new Regulation, aid may be granted not to contract but to children born after the submission of the claim. It is further facilitated that if a request for a loan for baby shower support is submitted at the time of pregnancy, from week 12, you can also ask for a cancellation immediately. Secondly, as of today, as of 1 July, you can apply for a loan with interest support to CSOK, which will be HUF 10 million for two children and HUF 15 million for three children. Thirdly, as of today, the range of families with children entitled to mortgage credit reduction and the amount of aid will be increased. Fourthly, as of today, families with at least three children can receive a HUF 2.5 million non-refundable grant for the purchase of a new passenger car for at least seven persons. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2010, the Hungarians sent Ference Gyurcsány and his Balliberal Government, who led the country to the edge of the abyss. Recall that there was a time when Ferenc Gyurcsány's answer to the hopeless situation for many was that it was possible to leave. After that, in 2010, many people were confident that the Orbán government could stop the country from slipping and put an end to the policy of austerity and tax increases. But who would have thought that today we would be able to give two and a half times as much support to families as before 2010, accounting for more than HUF 2000 billion, or almost 5 percent of our national total product? Who would have thought, then, that we Hungarians in the European Union would give the most support to families? Who would have thought that next year we would support working parents with an amount of HUF 380 billion, while this figure was only HUF 12.5 billion during the governance of the Gyurcsánys? Finally, who would have thought that we would succeed in achieving a significant, to be exact, 21 percent increase in childishness? [[13.10]] You know, fellow Members, there will be a principle if we sacrifice for it. There are values and instincts that override everything that dictate us to do our job even when we couldn't do it. Such a principle is to support families and children. When Hungary was in a difficult situation after 2010, the country was at the edge of the abyss, we did our job: we returned the third year's lawn that was taken from them by the Gyurcsányek, we gave back the opportunity to create a home, and we extended the home creation program, introduced the CSOK, brought back the family tax relief system, and started to expand the cradle seats. Every year since 2010, we have added something to support families. While in Western Europe the issue of family support is treated as taboo and the problem of population loss is solved by the introduction of foreign-culture immigrants, we prefer to support families so that as many children as possible can be born. At the same time, more and more people in Western Europe are wondering about it and expressing appreciation for the Hungarian family protection policy. I can assure you that the Fidesz-KDNP Party Alliance stands up for Hungarian families and children in all circumstances. Hungary is the most family-friendly country in Europe, and as Géza Gárdonyi said, the family is something in life that is precious. Oil in the lamp of life. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-01-2	On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Katalin Novák will respond. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Today is also famous because, in addition to Semmelweis Day, we have reached another turning point today, as the family protection action plan starts on 1 July 2019. As of today, as of 1 July 2019, various options and programs of the family protection operation have become available. Each European country in Europe has to face the problem of not having enough children, that cradles are empty, that young people do not take up or have few children, that fewer children are born than planned, or that young people have given up on the future, that they have given up on having children; that is the problem across Europe. Compared to this, some politicians in Brussels are working today to lead European organisations, the European institutions, who are pro-immigration, who want to address population problems with immigration, who believe in supranationalism, not in the unity, strength and not in the equivalent nation states, and who are thinking about Europe's future, but in their own interests. That is why it is important for us to offer a different vision and to acknowledge that we can go our own way in Hungary, and this demographic challenge, which we are facing, we can give the answer, which may not be the same as that given by the majority of European countries, but we believe that this is what will be the pledge of the Hungarian future. We want to help the birth of Hungarian children and Hungarian young people to have as many children as they want and when they want to. We want to offer Hungarian young people a predictable, stable, long-term future. This is what our family support measures have been about since 2010, and this is what this year's budget and next year's budget, 2020 which will be a budget for families. As of today, the family protection plan is about to begin. However, we are in an easier situation than most European countries, because Hungarian young people believe in the future, Hungarian young people want to be married, have children, want to live in a large family, this is usually their vision. We must help them to achieve this, and their planned, desired children can be born, and that is why we, on the part of the government, are working. Today, the family protection action plan is launched, and in this context the baby shower support that has never been similar in Hungary or anywhere else is available, so we can safely say that this is a Hungaricum. [[13.20]] Baby shower support is a support that can provide a margin of up to HUF 10 million for young people who are about to have children when starting their own lives together. They do not yet have their own existence, and they know that many years of hard work would allow them to create the conditions under which they could have children. Therefore, we will help them with a grant of up to HUF 10 million, which they will only have to repay if their ideas about having children are not met. By the way, it's a 10-million-forint help that you don't have to pay off at all, and you can use it for whatever you need. I would also like to stress with regard to baby shower support that, according to the Hungarian National Bank's resolution, this baby shower support can be used as a self-reliance of 75% if you want to take on any loan or increase access by saying that the debtors who are on the KHR list, so they were a bad debtor before, they had debts, but these debts have already been satisfied, they can also take on the baby shower support. Car shopping support for large families is also available from today. Here we want to help those where the third child is already on the road, or at least three children are raised in the family, and they need a new passenger car. In such cases, you can use 2.5 million HUF to buy a seven-seater car, and you can use this support to the full if you need a loan or if this car is leased. In addition to our home creation program, the CSOK loan can now be borrowed from 1 July for the purchase of used property, and from today the village CSOK will also start, which will make life easier for many. Also from 1 July, mortgage lending will be available to families where the second child arrives for HUF 1 million, for the third child for HUF 4 million, for each additional child for HUF 1 million. We are expanding the cradle system, improving its funding, next year the four-year mother's personal income tax exemption will start, and next year the grandparents' children will also be available. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Our goal is also to make it easier to have children and raise children in Hungary than ever before. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-07-01-4	Mr László György Lukács, Member of the Jobbik faction, applied for a pre-meeting speech. I give you the floor, please.
u2019-07-01-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As you heard here at the beginning of the meeting, we remember Ignác Semmelweis, and through his memory we honor Hungarian health workers today. The commemorative day of his birth is the moment or day of the celebration of Hungarian health care workers, despite the fact that every day, of course, health workers deserve respect, whether it be nurses, doctors or those we call health care workers; about very important technical staff and workers who ensure everyday life that a specialist, a pharmacy or a hospital can work. In addition to the voice of respect, of course, we are accountable, and this was said in the introduction that this was the occasion when the problem could be discussed. The fact that there is a difficult situation in health, I think it is not new, and politicians sitting on different sides of this horseshoe can also agree that there is a good deal to be done to improve and save health. This is not a Hungarian Hungaricum, but it is a European trend, a global problem, a problem that is a very important challenge for all states, how we can meet expectations in an ageing society, in addition to the growth of technology. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems that Hungary is still lagging behind in this competition, at the end of which Hungarian patients, workers drink the damage, and Hungary has to work even harder with more money to overcome its disadvantage. If we look at the problem, then, overall, we need to focus on three issues that deserve to be mentioned. One is a financial problem, which is that we are faced with a huge technological growth, an ageing society, an ageing society, which represents an increased need for health care, for the healthcare of which the underfunded is, by the way, quite tangible. We have just discussed, in the last few days, the next year's budget, and the government has not been able to express any real criticism that today's modern health care, which is often covered by Article XXI. We would like to see it as a hundredth century, which actually lacks between 500 and 600 billion forints a year. Part of this is the government's attempt to channel it during the year, to group it in order to help the people working in it, the institutions, but that alone, my fellow Members, is not enough. There are also many instances of poor physical condition, so the condition of buildings. With EU money, this has been improved in many rural institutions, not yet in Budapest. And, ladies and gentlemen, if it is criminal that metro line M3 operates as a sauna, then you can go to a hospital in Budapest, where, unfortunately, there is a situation where patients and workers also have to be in and out at 30-35 degrees. If we have work to do, if we have work to do, there are plenty of people in this area, because they travel not only for five minutes in health care and hospitals, and they get sick, but also for about a week, two weeks, or as employees there every hour of the day, and often 24 hours. Perhaps one of the biggest, most pressing problems or crises of the human resources problem is the burnout, the fatigue of workers, the apathy of workers. Years ago, the Health Professionals' Association carried out a survey in which the health professionals, the nurses who stand by the Hungarian sickbeds, were often more ill than the ones they nursed. Ladies and gentlemen, We must also take action in this, this is our joint task, our common task above politics, to improve these working conditions. But here, too, it is safe to say that the lack of transparency increases the burden of health care as a third problem. Modern health care, in which there is room for the institution of gratitude money for the old socialist period, where it is possible to hide how many people actually die from hospital infections, in which institutions there is a problem, honourable Members, there is no need to hide them or not to hide them because we want to protect health. These data must be made public so that we can protect the workers and patients there so that they can take action against hospital infections in the hospital in East Hungary or in Western Hungary, as Semmelweis Ignác dreamed of, and as he thought of it, and as he implemented it in Hungarian health care. This is our shared responsibility: ensuring financial resources, ensuring decent working conditions and ensuring transparency. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say that Jobbik's position, which has been known for a very long time, has been that we can support any proposal that is intended to improve the interests of the country. For the last time, I would like to propose for the last time that a minimum of health above the policy should be established to determine the areas that can be withdrawn from the everyday battles of politics for the next 20-25 years. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] and to ensure the safety of patients and workers in health care. The Jobbik will be a partner. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-07-01-6	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Congressman, you are a medical exporter. Dear House, [[Dr. László György Lukács: Oh, how funny!]] Indeed, we all thank you today, because this government has decided to recognise the work of healthcare workers today and to celebrate them throughout the country. Indeed, all of us were there at the time of birth in the first seconds, even a few months before, and look after our health, our loved ones, if they are sick, take care of them. We have a lot to say to them on this day. I would like to continue with your line of thought, honourable Member, where you left off, namely that you would like to see a large programme, a programme above the parties, in relation to health. Don't be modest: nearly two years ago, you signed such a large-scale program, together with the Two-Dagger Dog Party, jointly adopted Gyula Kincses's cross-party programme, which included more than half a dozen parties, which defined Jobbik's health policy before the elections. About Gyula Kincses, you should know that she is a great supporter of the visit fee, she likes to define the parameters of paid health care, and they are also included in the document signed by you. For example, it is about how the private service system should be managed in health care and how this part of health care should be embedded in a market environment. That's what you signed. It is also written, and you have also signed, in this programme of your desire for cooperation between the two-tailed Dog Party and the state and the market. It is written in this program that the patient and the two segments must be interoperable, so the patients should migrate between public and private health care and build on each other. [[13.30]] We know this SZDSZ model: building on each other means that where there is a profit, private service providers, where there is a cost, pay for it by public-funded social security, and you considered it important to mention, for example, in paragraph 6, that the market for affordable services should also be developed in health care. This would have been a gift to Hungarian citizens if you had been elected in last year's parliamentary elections: essentially austerity. We see what your policy is: withdrawal of funds, cutbacks and market orientation. On the other hand, Fidesz-KDNP has expanded its resources: next year's budget already contains more than HUF 700 billion more for health purposes than the budget adopted by the Socialists in 2010, much more than 1.5 percent of GDP; hospital developments in the country and wage increases in 70 locations, if I look at the wages of doctors alone, we have raised its gross basic wage by HUF 207 thousand in two years. On the other hand, what does the opposition offer? A horrific coalition: medical exporter right-handers, hospital closing socialists and privatiser liberals. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: You're a clown!]] This is the opposition's health program. Of course, this appeared in the last few weeks in connection with their pre-election in Budapest, as Péter Mihályi talked about Olga Kálmán's program, he is a visiting professor of the Soros University, and he also told me, I would rather say that he said that he needed extra money for health care, some of which I quote out of private strength: some of it may include a visit fee in Budapest, for example. This was, therefore, your proposal in 2019 to introduce a visitation fee in Budapest. You have now lined up behind Gergely Christmas, honourable Member, who has taken the Zoltán Komáromi into his shadow government, who collected signatures in addition to the visit fee in 2008, honourable Member. [[Gergely Harvestó: You already have him! A statement from the opposition: This is hard to follow!]] You, Jobbik, support this candidate for mayor, who would have made a health minister, and obviously rely on the person in his health policy in Budapest who collected signatures in addition to the visit fee. And to come up with such a concept, honourable Member, after a referendum, after the social referendum, which abolished the visit fee in 2008, that you would then introduce a visitation fee in Budapest, I think this will go against the will of the people. But you have presented a special storehouse, even in the draft amending budget. You have also tabled several amendments to the budget, for example, you have failed to submit a well-defined amendment to an alcoholic strategy because you accidentally proposed a national alcohol strategy and not an alcoholic strategy, as we do in drug prevention and other areas. Honourable Congressman, [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] As I said, we are trying to improve the situation of health workers and patients with wage increases and additional resources. [[György Szilágyi: Shame on you!]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-01-8	Next up is DK's representative, László Varju. I give you the floor.
u2019-07-01-9	Thank you very much. Dear House, Foreign exchange credit victims should be assisted. The private institution has failed, it is intolerable that helpless old people, families with small children, 60-80 families are put on the street every week, otherwise the families are torn apart. Foreign exchange lending was made possible by the Orbán government in 2011. As President of the Ticket Bank, Zsigmond Járai has skyrocketed interest rates, so the forint loan has become priceless for most people, and the career of foreign exchange lending has started. Even in December 2005, Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány warned about the serious risk of foreign exchange loans, the understandable desire for home seduced many. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Are you serious?]] But that's not the main question anymore. Banks that have not adequately informed their clients about the exchange rate risk change are seriously responsible for the development of the situation. [[Dr. Pál Völner: András Simor!]] A number of legal actions have been brought on this basis and the European Court of Justice has taken a favourable decision for borrowers in order to clarify disputes about European and international law, and since then the judgment is favourable to the client on the Metropolitan Court of Justice. Unfortunately, the Curia's consultative body, in its opinion governing the courts, forces everyone to be sued, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, excludes the determining court from allowing the annulment of the unfair foreign exchange credit contract, which proposes not only against the judgment of the European Court of Justice, but also with the European consumer protection standards set out in the 1997 Consumer Protection Act, and, on the other hand, the translation of the credit at the rate of admission and the interest at that time. The latter is based on the assumption that the client would have taken out the loan under the conditions established by the forinting, which is clearly not justified. Of course, it is not up to discussion that debts must be paid, and in this context, the borrower is responsible for assessing whether he will be able to do so. But can you be held responsible for the post-election statements made by the debtors Kósa, Szijjártó and Mihály Varga in 2010, which led to the forint going deep? He could be held responsible for the government's conscious foreclosure policy, on which the central bank makes good money, and the profits, with Mr Matolcsy's cooperation, will lose their public money. Can the debtor be held responsible for the HUF 190 Swiss franc today for HUF 290 at the time of the change of government? Therefore, despite the fact that average earnings have more than doubled since 2004, it is not possible to manage multiple payments. Thus, a million people emigrated from our country, more than 70 percent of whom are currency-installed. The foreign exchange credit crisis, the untreated situation of emigration, is responsible for the economic and income policies of the government, the Fidesz government. They act like a monkey that doesn't want to hear anything, sees nothing, and doesn't talk. This is the position of the Hungarian government. Dear House, The agreement concluded between the Hungarian Government and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in 2015 which greatly affects the management of foreign exchange loans should be reviewed every six months in accordance with this Treaty and adjusted if necessary. We demand that the government disclose the agreements reached at these meetings and terminate this treaty. We demand that the government, through the National Asset Manager, allow insolvent families and families with children to stay in their apartments or move to another apartment and provide cover for this precisely suitable or due budget. We demand that non-paying families with children be extended their support system so that they can use that amount to replace the defaulted loan! Moreover, it is also a fact that, in the rule of law, they are inconceivable to prevent the exercise of their rights by those concerned. Therefore, the representatives of non-governmental representatives, who are otherwise present in the Chamber, accepted and initiated [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] the establishment of the Kossuth Square Civil Consultation Panel. I will bring your message and, after the Secretary of State's comment, I wish to convey your message. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]]
u2019-07-01-10	Mr. Secretary of State Pál Völner has the floor.
u2019-07-01-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, Listening to this five-minute speech, I did not know whether it was amnesia or demagogia that was more present in this speech. But if we have reached back to the 2002 conditions, and there was such a thing as being kind enough to offer this high ball, let me remind you that in 2002 there was a housing support system in Hungary, where Hungarian families were able to obtain very favorable HUF-based loans, which you narrowed down and deleted. [[Continuous noise and interruptions in the lines of DK and MSZP. Ágnes Kunhalmi: Move to the Castle! Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Fusion pacle soup!]] Of course, there was also a minister who took advantage of this opportunity. Maybe it's...
u2019-07-01-12	Mrs. Agnes Kunhalmi, why are you yelling?
u2019-07-01-13	... but you were in a coalition with this formation, and you can't deny it.
u2019-07-01-14	Mr. Secretary, a moment, please. I'll have a glass of water for Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi and a sedative. [[Agnes Kunhalmi will show you a glass.]] Besides, I'd like to urge you not to start this madness again. We've made good progress here. Listen to what the Secretary of State has to say. We listened to you calmly, but it wasn't easy, so why don't you try it? [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.40]]
u2019-07-01-15	Thank you. So we were saying that you abolished the preferential housing support system and offered, of course, the bulk of foreign currency loans, to which the central bank provided active assistance under the leadership of András Simor, because it increased the basic rate of the forint by not having access to any family with a responsible thinking under the market conditions of the forint loans. The time has come when everything went on a currency loan basis. By the way, this was pressure for municipalities, companies, not just for families, which everyone was forced to solve in this form, while there were budgetary cuts in the whole economy and in the entire municipal sector. So sin is much wider than what we've talked about here, narrowed down. And when, in 2008, the global economic crisis hit, the interest rates on foreign exchange loans started to rise, the exchange rates got out of hand, so what did you do? They didn't do anything. Until spring 2010, this country was led by a Balliberal Coalition. [[Szabó Timea: You've been steering for nine years!]] What Ferenc Gyurcsány said in 2005? What did you do? He didn't do anything. That's the problem. And you may also be lying about what you said, because I can't always follow these events, how you say it, I don't want to discuss daily news. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai:]] And it came to 2010, when the current government received confidence from voters, not by accident. [[Zsolt Gréczy: 325 was the forint!]] So the foreign exchange credo has played a major role in your downfall, because that one million families have punished you and are still punishing you. Then we practically introduced the eviction moratorium. We set up an asset manager for families in the worst situation, which helped over 36,000 families who could now buy their homes back and live as tenants. In addition, we have provided for the possibility of final repayment. How much the banks helped, how much they didn't, let's say, by replacing another loan, could have been encouraged, that's another question. We've introduced the exchange barrier. Then we have the banks accounted for both foreign exchange and interest rates, and we return more than a thousand billion HUF to foreign exchange lenders. These proposals, these solutions, we can look back on Parliament's protocols, you have largely not voted in favour, you have not stood up for foreign exchange credentials, you have not supported helpful actions. That's what you should be recalling, looking for the problems that have led you here. [[Zsolt Gréczy: I'm losing children from families! Little kids!]] Another part of the matter is that the courts today, since Congressman, also discusses what solutions they have sought. Indeed, as far as general general solutions were concerned, this Parliament was in place, this Parliament was trying to solve these burdens and relieve them. With the forinting we have led to this problem, and today only those who have an income in foreign currency can take up foreign currency loans, I note. They could have done that after 2002, I'll remember that. [[Peter Cseresnyés: That's right! Dr. Bence Rétvári: Meg, yes!]] And we have actually arrived at the time when the courts say that by examining cases individually, it is possible to get to the point where the court has a role to play in determining an nullity or nullity, and how it can fairly account for those who have not been sufficiently helped by the legislation in the past period. These facts cannot be denied. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-01-16	A representative of the MSZP, Lajos Korózs, also applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-17	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, It is also the celebration of the public sector workers on 1 July, and in addition to what my fellow Members have already referred to it, Ignác Semmelweis is remembered at this time in the Semmelweis Day. I brought up civil servants' day because we have to bow our heads to people who work in government windows, district offices or Nyufig's customer service, even in such dire circumstances. I think, fellow Members, that we would need a great deal of Semmelweis Ignac, all the more so, because we have to acknowledge the work of the determined and committed people working in the healthcare sector who are working day and night to ensure that this healthcare still works. Healthcare workers who, as a doctor, nurse, or technical worker in the healthcare system, honor their vows. I believe that the government is indebted to the health sector, indebted to the sector. And let's bow our heads to the vascular surgeon who just sacrificed his life at work last week, because this man worked night and day for 30 days. I would like to mention here that the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights has carried out an investigation and has also sent the inquiry to the government. This study is primarily about vascular surgeons. The findings set out below are only summarised, I would like to mention. I am talking about a 24-page document, but allow me to highlight a few points from it. I forgot to mention that Petz Aladár Hospital, the city major vascular surgery clinic and Péterfy Hospital were examined in the highest priority. That's a good point. That's a good point. The first is the low number of vascular reconstruction surgeries and the high number of amputations violate the right to human dignity. Second, in the case of the same group of diseases, the requirement of equal treatment is also violated, as territorial differences make it possible for them to obtain these benefits on much worse terms in some places. I'm just stating that the latter is Article XX of the Fundamental Law. According to Article 4 of the Treaty, the right to health is violated and raises this problem. The third is such a statement: freedom of choice cannot be exercised because of the few professionals. Last but not least, I quote from the report: "This means that the low number of specialists and the fact that the physical and personal conditions that ensure the quality of care in some areas of the country are uneven, result in an uncertain operating structure in which it is not transparent and thus uncontrollable about the conditions under which an institution decides to receive patients outside the territory. This leads to further serious odds of inequality. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Allow me to take a snapshot of what happened in health care last week. We could read that everyone could have met with this report that, in Nagyatad, the money was basically used to get a CT scan, and then this CT was put into operation, but regardless, it was a year ago that the health government had to solve its funding. I stress that they can transfer billions overnight here, and they couldn't solve the funding of this CT in a year, so patients have to travel 100 kilometers or to Pécs or Kaposvár to get a diagnostic analysis. [[Péter Cseresnyés: Not a hundred kilometers!]] I would also like to say that we are not talking about an excessive amount, we should finance 250-300 studies for the health government. If they wanted to, we could solve this problem in ten minutes. And we can also read in the news that the lab service at Veszprém County Hospital has ceased to exist. Here, the microbiological service has virtually ceased, and the epidemiological services have ceased in this form. And, of course, the government sent a message to the people who lived there, told them to go to the market, even offered a company that could order it. Just for the record, my fellow Members, there is today between 20 and 50 thousand forints to finance an imaging diagnostic study in the private sector. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Shame!]] Thank you for your attention.
u2019-07-01-18	Once again, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2019-07-01-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As regards health transfers, funding, billions and hundreds of billions, honourable Member, you have set a record in this, too, since you managed to subtract 600 billion forints from the Hungarian health system. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You've been ruling for nine years!]] You have been the only government that has taken me out of health funding, and has not added it, according to the OECD, while, since we have been governing, the seventh largest increase in health funding in Hungary is among the OECD countries. [[Szabó Timea: No!]] So we're not talking about a 600 billion withdrawal. [[Szabó Timea: That's not true!]] as in your case, but only if I look at the budget figures to provide over 700 billion forints of extra resources. [[Szabó Timea: The OECD numbers do not say that!]] [[13.50]] You bring the most basic facts here in Parliament, talking about the fact that the patients and the residents of the area were hattening the cost of the CT in Nagyatád. They received a state grant of HUF 130 million to buy this, Mr. honourable Member, they didn't put it together in the area, but received state aid of HUF 130 million. Of course, you guys would've cost patients a visitation fee and a hospital allowance, so you really wouldn't have volunteered, but you would've picked them up from the patients sooner or later. The fact that the level of supply has improved thanks to additional resources in recent years is shown by a number of things, honourable Member. For example, if you look at the number of people who have died of chronic illness over the past period, since 2010 in the European Union this has decreased by 10 percent, and in Hungary it has decreased by 15 percent. [[Szabó Timea: We are first in the EU with the number of people who died of chronic illness!]] Madam honourable Member, the number of people who died of chronic illness in Hungary has decreased by one and a half times as much as in the EU. Obviously, you are trying to keep them quiet as spokespersons of national defiance, but this is not the case, honourable Member. But if you look at the number of years spent in health and the number of years expected, in 2010 the life expectancy in Hungary was 74.7 years, and now it is 76 years. While the EU averages a 1.4 percent increase in life expectancy, this was 2 percent in Hungary, so the increase in life expectancy is much higher, more than 1.5 times higher, and since 2010, Hungarians have lived more than 1.5 years longer. This has many factors, but one of the important factors is obviously health care. And if you look at how the number of years spent in health has changed in the average of the European Union, you will see that the number of years expected to be spent in health has increased by six months at EU level in recent years, since 2010, in contrast to 2.2 years in Hungary. Obviously, our base was a worse value, obviously below the EU average, but the rate of growth was much higher than in the EU average, and it has now been achieved, thanks to the Fidesz-KDNP government, among other things, to the additional sources of health, that the scissors, which is the difference between the average life expectancy in Europe and the life expectancy in Hungary, are no longer 5 years old, but are less than 5 years old. [[Szabó Timea: 4.5.]] So by improving our data in a larger proportion than the EU, the difference is also decreasing between the life expectancy of the EU and the life expectancy of Hungary, the number of years spent in EU health and the number of years spent in Hungarian health. This is when we must thank the health workers, honourable Member, and at this point we must see that the additional resources that have come to health care, including as a wage increase, have come to a very, very good place, and they have brought their results, and we would like to continue this. You, remember that in 2008 you were taken from all Hungarian nurses, all doctors, all ambulance drivers, all physical workers in hospitals and clinics, and you took a month's wages from everyone. On the other hand, in the case of doctors, if you compare the basic salary for 2010 and the current one, you can see that we have increased the money that doctors are entitled to receive for their work by about twice as much as 2.5 times. If you look at a professional who made 159 thousand forints in 2010 as a beginner, with a OKJ degree, he earns 324 thousand forints this year. If you look at a more experienced worker with two decades of experience, a nurse who made 172 thousand forints in 2010, he is now earning 361,000 forints. And if you look at a doctor and specialist in health two decades ago who also had more experience, he earned 364 thousand forints in 2010 [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And today 853,000 forints. Thanks to the health care workers for their work. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-01-20	On behalf of the LMP, Ms Krisztina Hohn asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-21	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Soon the adoption of Hungary's 2020 budget will be before this House. From this, we can clearly see what and how much money the government is spending on next year's budget, but none of the more than 800 amendments tabled by the opposition were accepted in the Committee on Budgets. I didn't quite understand that, and I found it incredible that none of them were found worthy of approval by the pro-government members of the committee. At this meeting, after I quietly noted on one of the proposals that I had not heard the reason for the rejection, one of my fellow Members said: "What difference does it make? The point is, the government doesn't support it. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Well, it doesn't matter to me because I'm naive, I think I live in a democracy. Well, after all, trusting democracy, I thought I should share my thoughts on poverty, public work and the situation of many people, which is why I am here. The purpose of my speech is to find a solution. I say this because, as incredible as it may be, not only can it be criticism with the aim of a opposition Member, but also that he draws attention to a problem and that he brings the cries of the groups and people who have been given to this House. What poverty is, many people say many things about it. A lot of reports, newspaper articles, documentary films, and books come to light on the subject. I've read a lot of things, too, but I think it's possible to really understand the meaning of it when you experience it yourself, when you have the opportunity to look into other people's lives, when they let you into their apartments, when they come to us as their last refuge, and even when we've known and seen the development of their fate for years. Like I said, many people think a lot of things about poverty and the poor, and, yes, there are some. What are they like? Yeah, people who drink, do drugs, don't like to work. But what about those who can't? The patients, the elderly, the children? And then the answer is that the minimum wage has risen by percentage, that there is a family tax reduction, a free textbook, and so on and so forth. I know, I know, I know, and these are good decisions, and, yes, I need them, but unfortunately, there are some that will never achieve their true purpose, or those that, by the time they get to the ground, will be nothing, degenerate, never reach the countryside. As mayor of the village, I have experienced many kinds of poverty, many disappointments, lack of prospects, illness, mental problems, and the successes and failures of various public jobs. I know that the aim of public employment is for those involved to find their way back to the labour market, and that is one of the reasons why their wages are not increasing. In 2011, the net public employment wage was HUF 47 025; in 19 it was HUF 54 217 net. In eight years, he increased HUF 7192. But what is it enough to buy from 54 217 forints? If a person tries to maintain himself and pays for the basic rent, we are talking about basic rent, it costs at least 20-30 thousand forints and remains 25-30 thousand forints to collect, eat, clothe, from a thousand forints a day. I think the time has come for action. It is important to think about why people who are still working in public employment are unable to work in the competition sector. Do you live in a sack settlement and not have proper public transport? Are you suffering from disease? Are you mentally unfit for work? Old? Unskilled or illiterate? I think that the doctor who knows the employee can answer these questions, in a small settlement, whether the mayor, the social worker, or the staff member of the family support service. If such a research, such a research and a health check were to take place, it would be much easier to find a solution for those workers trapped in public work. If there is a chance for him to be able to work on the labour market, then help him by the authority in question, but if his condition is irreversible, then social employment may be the solution. At the same time, it is necessary to establish a wage that does not preserve the prospect of hunger, poverty, and unfortunately does not provide a solution for this, a month's or even a month's extra payment, and it is simply a matter of raising their wages. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2019-07-01-22	Once again, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will respond. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, She asked why the governing parties, for example, did not support the amendments made by the LMP. Madam Members, if we look at what amendment you have tabled in the field of our wallet, the Ministry of Human Resources, we see that you would increase the price of energy sources by charging taxes, in Hungarian, increasing the Hungarian people's rent. [[14.00]] A surplus of HUF 165 billion would be collected by raising the rent on the basis of your budget amendment proposal from the people, and so much more would have to be paid to Hungarian households. [[Krisztina Hohn intervenes.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and No one would like to withdraw from what we achieved during the reduction of the rent, which is what your proposals aimed at, and they would have pulled 165 billion forints out of the pockets of Hungarian citizens in a year. But many of your opposition fellow Members have come up with more hair-scrupulous proposals and justifications, only as regards our wallet, you would introduce seven new taxes on seven new taxes! That would take HUF 565 billion out of the pockets of Hungarian families. [[Krisztina Hohn: That's not true!]] They would also increase taxes, they would increase VAT, which is likely due to the increase in VAT on basic foods, as milk, eggs and pork are taxed at the lowest percentage. With excise duty revenue, corporate tax revenue would pull money out of people's pockets and companies' pockets. [[Gergely Harvesto: From the big corporations! Márta Demeter interrupts.]] and it was also explained why, since there is a proposal from one of the opposition representatives, a textual justification for the budget amendment, in the area of social assistance, that it is a return to normal conditions in the period before the Fidesz government, and he says it is a radical simplification of the social system. So the return to pre-2010 status is the result of your proposal for a budgetary amendment. Also mainly on the basis of dialogue proposals, there would be less available for family allowances than the 304 billion framework. [[Márta Demeter interrupts.]] Under the EUR 6.3 billion framework for maternity support, the opposition proposals suggest that the framework for childcare benefits would be lower than the EUR 60.8 billion framework, because it would also be taken away. They would also take away some parts of the 11 billion child-rearing allowance, but they would reduce the line "reimbursement of the child-birth-related freedom of 3.1 billion now," but they would endanger, reduce and take away the HUF 7.4 billion that is for life support in the budget, but the financial and in-kind child-protection subsidies, which is HUF 3.5 billion, would also be used in part by you. If you ask, therefore, honourable Member, why we have not supported your proposals, precisely because they would take you away from families because they would increase the overhead. [[Krisztina Hohn intervenes.]] [[Krisztina Hohn intervenes.]] and seven new taxes would be introduced, and three taxes would be raised in Hungary, and we will not do that. And the top point of being frivolous is that there is a budget line that would be spent 17 times, but some that would be spent 30 times, because they refer to it so many times. (Krisztina Hohn interrupts.) With regard to your other claims on poverty, honourable Member, if you look at how many new workers there are in Hungary about 800 thousand and see how much they have fallen according to Eurostat's statements, so according to the international reports that you are very fond of the number of people at risk of poverty, then if you consider this with family members, the figure of about 1.2 million people who today are at risk of poverty is about 1.2 million, as they were in 2010. [[Márta Demeter and Gergely Arató intervene.]] One of the foundations of this is, of course, the radical minimum wage increase and the radical minimum wage increase, and also the increase in earnings by more than 10 percent over a year, and if you have been watching it since 2010, honourable Member, you can see that net wages have increased by more than 60 percent in Hungary. It is also a very positive process that the number of people under the age of 18 at risk of poverty has decreased by one quarter in one year, according to the same statement. Thus, the proportion of children, families with children at risk of poverty or the risk of social exclusion, has been able to decrease by a quarter in one year. It is also important that, for example, for single-parent households, the number of people exposed to poverty has decreased by one third since 2010 and that there is also a 50 percent reduction in the risk of poverty in large families. So whether someone raises their child alone or raises more children, the rate of poverty has decreased noticeably. According to OECD, one of the largest increases in the minimum wage has been recorded in Hungary between 2010 and 2017 and you know it. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] that people's consumption has now been increasing for perhaps 60 months. This also shows that fewer and fewer people are at risk of poverty. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-01-24	Szabó Timea, the leader of the Dialogue Group, also applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-25	Ladies and gentlemen, Last week we held the first opposition primary in Hungary [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: Bravo! Dr. Bence Rétvári: Destroyer, you meant to say!]] and the candidate for mayor of Budapest. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. Dr. Bence Rétvári: This isn't about us, this is about opposition rivals, I see! Answer me, Gyurcsány!]] After a long time, the opposition finally realized that the replacement of Viktor Orbán and Fidesz needed an opposition candidate to stand against your repressive regime. With a convincing majority, the co-president of the Dialogue, Gergely Christmas, won your nightmare. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Bence Rétvári: The nightmare of Budapesters!]] because the opposition cooperation you've always feared has come together. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] because they know that this is the only way and so we will be able to drive away your corrupt governor, István Tarlós, who cannot make independent decisions and think for himself about Budapest. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] Christmas is supported by Dialogue, MSZP, DK and Momentum, and Jobbik and LMP are not candidates for the post of mayor. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: And the two-tailed dogs?!]] With this unprecedented cooperation, we will finally create everyone's Budapest from Budapest. For what did Viktor Orbán and István Tarlós do to the capital in recent years? Instead of working to reduce poverty, the persecution of homeless people, which István Tarlós carried out without a voice, was enshrined in the law. Instead of helping hundreds of elderly people not to freeze to death in their homes, EU energy efficiency money worth HUF 90 billion was spent on friends of János Lázár's tobacco lobbies instead of renovating families' homes. Instead of helping young people to secure and find affordable apartments, they let the real estate prices double so that István Tiborcz's buddies could make money out of it in the capital. It is interesting that this week the future Minister of Justice, Judit Varga, found out that through her husband, she is earning HUF 4 million a month from the rental of property in Budapest, while taking on the 300,000 HUF monthly housing allowance and I hope you like it. At the working home in Csepel The monthly rent of one bed is 60,000 forints, while your Zsolt Bayer rents an apartment in the Castle for 30,000 forints. But there is no stopping the fidesz humiliation of Budapesters. Five thousand people die in the capital every year because of air pollution, while asthma and croup diseases have multiplied among children. We have the highest air pollution in nearly 40 OECD countries. Compared to that, Viktor Orbán and his friends hate trees. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] And they love concrete, they want to cement the Roman coast, and they want to make City Park their own investor playground, against which UNESCO has raised its voice. But the traffic is also a nightmare: on metro 3 we get heat strokes at 35 degrees, the buses spew black smoke into the mouth of the children in the stroller, and the rent is twice as high as in Vienna. (Interjections from the ranks of the governing parties. ) Finally, on Semmelweis Day, we can't pass the crashing health care. With the death of a vascular surgeon, the patient care in Budapest has fallen exactly. The doctors sleep under the stairs in the E.R. For an examination, Budapesters will have to wait months. That's why we're going to end your oppression under the leadership of Gergely Christmas in the fall. The capital doesn't need an Orbán nodding governor, it needs a leader who really represents the people. Even though István Tiborcz whine, Christmas will impose the Tiborcz tax on him and his fidesz friends to build social housing. We're gonna renovate the local government apartments, we're gonna regulate the rent. Let's make sure no one lives on the street. We'll reconfigure the traffic, replace the buses, build the Pest braid. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] And we'll cut the monthly rent by half. Instead of concrete, we build a new forest (intercoms from the governing parties. ) and protect our green areas in Budapest. We provide new CT and other equipment to the clinics so that no one has to wait months for a simple examination. One word for it: we will put an end to the humiliation of the people of Budapest. The man of power will be replaced by the power of men, as he did in Istanbul. The new Mayor of Istanbul said that a new chapter in the history of the city will be about justice, equality, love and solidarity. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] Orbán and István Tarlós should be afraid, because this quick autumn in Istanbul will arrive in Budapest, and it will also take away your corrupt leadership! Thank you. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. Applause in the lines of Dialogue, LMP and DK.]]
u2019-07-01-26	I give the floor to State Secretary Csaba Dömötör. [[14.10]]
u2019-07-01-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond, despite the fact that we have seen more of a follow-up to the opposition pre-election. As far as Budapest is concerned, I regret that you ignore the fundamental facts. In recent years, public spaces and public buildings have been renewed in Budapest, Metro 3 has been renewed, while the parties to which you have joined have been unable for years to: [[Szabó Timea: What?]] I want metro 4 completed. This government is finished. The bus park in Budapest is renewed and constantly renewed, we are on it, and the size of the green areas is increasing. If you were really interested in the size of green areas, you wouldn't be hindered. [[Szabó Timea: Indeed, we were forced to...]] the Liget Budapest investment. [[Szabó is talking to Balázs Győrffy Timea.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I did what I had to do to listen to you. I would ask you to do the same. Not because of me, but because of our constituents, we don't have a few. [[Szabó Timea: You didn't listen to me! That's a big mistake.]] As far as health is concerned, honourable Member, it has been decided that a 700 billion-dollar investment will create several center hospitals in Budapest. This will significantly increase the quality of care. [[Bence of Turda: You've been steering for nine years!]] Now we have the feeling that you are always saying the same thing, whether it's about the capital or rural affairs. [[Intervention from the benches of opposition parties: What about Szombathely?]] We're not surprised that Bertalan Tóth actually said the same lyrics a few days ago as he did two years ago. That's the case with you. [[Noise from the benches of opposition parties.]] And it's easy to ask that question. [[Gergely Arató draws a rectangle in the air with his hand: Budapest...]] I wonder what the reason for this is... [[Szabó Timea: You've been saying the same words for five years: Soros, Soros, Soros!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I don't want to comment on your upbringing problems, but let me answer. So the question arises why they always say the same thing, and they always say the same thing, they ignore the facts because they're actually busy with the pre-election, the power struggle, fighting for the remaining positions. [[Szabó Timea: No!]] That's what last week was all about. And allow me to highlight one phenomenon. There have been a lot of phenomena in the primary which are very good at the status of the left. As is known, DK filed a complaint because misleading telephone calls were made in Budapest which made it appear that Ferenc Gyurcsány would support Gergely Christmas [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We didn't press charges! Don't lie to me. We didn't press charges.]] while Ferenc Gyurcsány stabbed the Mayor of Zugló in the back long ago. First, as a kind of reflex, they blamed the whole thing on Fidesz, and then it turned out that the campaign team of the MSZP-PM was behind it, the candidate you refer to, whom you recommend to Budapest. [[Szabó Timea: They were afraid of Christmas! That's the problem. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We didn't press charges!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and There are two possible cases. One is that Gergely Christmas knew about the phone calls [[Szabó Timea: That's not true!]] But he deliberately denied it. [[Szabó Timea: He didn't know about the phone calls and he didn't deny it!]] The other is just as serious from the point of view of your candidacy, honourable Member. [[Gergely Harvester: It's bad!]] Maybe he didn't know. If you didn't know about it, let's ask yourself, what candidate doesn't know that thousands of misleading phone calls are being made behind your back? [[Szabó Timea: The candidate who has nothing to do with it!]] This raises very serious incompetence issues. We must say that this latter possibility is very typical of Christmas Gergely. [[Szabó Timea: If this is incompetence to you, then so be it.]] You are now recommending a candidate to the attention of Budapest who is fleeing responsibility, from any form of responsibility, and who he is apparently changing his position to who he was talking to last. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I've only seen Tiborcz flee!]] He's not driving, he's drifting with the flow. [[Interventions from the benches of opposition parties: Orbán! Interview from the governing parties' benches: Yes!]] drifting with the wind and drifting with the will of political interest groups. [[Szabó Timea: They were afraid of him!]] That's how the rainbow flag and the red star fit together. [[Intervention from the benches of opposition parties: Well, this way!]] That's how it happens while you're asking for it... [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] While Gergely Christmas gets his hands on the Socialist Party list [[Timea Szabó: Gergely Christmas didn't ask for it...]] Meanwhile, he agrees with Ferenc Gyurcsány that he does not campaign for the MSZP at all. Now we're among ourselves. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That we are among ourselves? Oh, boy, oh, boy. Gergely Harvester: God forbid!]] [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] While Gergely Christmas asks for the list of the Socialist Party (Szabó Timea: Gergely Christmas didn't ask for it... ), she agrees with Ferenc Gyurcsány that she doesn't campaign for MSZP at all. We are among ourselves now (Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That we are among ourselves? Oh, boy, oh, boy. Gergely Harvesting: God forbid!) You can feel how absurd this is! (Szabó Timea interrupts.) What I am talking about, honourable Member, is not a matter of the left, because if a politician has incompetence signs, then these question marks must be taken seriously, because he would do the same to the people of Budapest. [[Szabó Timea: Very lame...]] He would not take responsibility, and would always bow to the will of certain interest groups, which would otherwise tear apart Budapest in the same way as during the management of SZDSZ. Running away from responsibility, inexperience combined with incompetence, I think it's not a good cocktail. [[Gergely Harvesto: There's no need to be so afraid. Szabó Timea: You suck...]] It's a luxury in a bad way that I don't think Budapest can afford right now. As far as tax increases are concerned, you have already voted on this, with a ceiling of HUF 30 million in 2009. Such a tax would now affect most of the apartments in Budapest, which is why the Hungarian government [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] does not support any tax increase, nor in Budapest [[Szabó Timea: Wait six months for a CT scan in Budapest! Answer that.]] Or in the country. [[Szabó Timea: Six months!]] Thank you for listening. [[Szabó Timea: We will only introduce the Tiborcz tax, don't worry. Applause in the benches of the governing parties. Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes. å Intercoms and noise from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2019-07-01-28	Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't want to interrupt Mr. Secretary's speech. [[Gergely Harvester: Ah!]] But I still think it's amazing that a grown man who's been elected as a representative can't live up to the requirements of school maturity. [[Interventions from the benches of opposition parties: You are right, Mr President. Applause from the benches of LMP, DK, MSZP and Dialogue.]] We're talking about a woman in charge of the show, who's applauding enthusiastically right now. Since you entered the Chamber, with some delay, shortly before you were given the floor. [[Szabó Timea: I know you love me very much, Mr President.]] He's been screaming ever since before he got a word and after he got a word. I can tell you this is a serious problem, Congresswoman, so ask for professional help because you need it. [[Defiance from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Let's not do this.]] And we need to stop being forced to listen to you scream all the time. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties, interrogations from the same place: That's right! Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Only a week left! Gergely Arató: In North Korea there are not so many unscrupulous opponents!]] Mr Soltész, on behalf of the KDNP, is the last in the line of speeches before the agenda.
u2019-07-01-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Indeed, it would be difficult for doctors today, who, thank God today, on Semmelweis Day, have given a rest and did not have to perform such a service that, for example, either Szabó Timea or László Varju should be cured and helped during his speech and during the shouting. [[Gergely Harvesto: Mr President! We should call now.]] Mr László arju dared to say in his speech about family support schemes, in general on subsidies, that the Orbán governments were responsible for the problem of foreign exchange lenders, as if [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: That's right!]] they were not the ones who would have introduced the life situation in which the provision of family support for home creation had been lifted in order to drive hundreds and hundreds of thousands of people into a life situation that was nothing but the taking of foreign currency loans. [[The intervention of Gergely Arató and László Varju.]] I remember very well, Mr Varju, I was in Parliament when we tried to take action as opposition representatives. You have been so successful in helping hundreds and hundreds of thousands of foreign exchange creditors, including, overall, millions of family members, one million people, that you have called a meeting here, one of Parliament's smaller halls, invited the heads of the Banking Association and banks, and asked them to help people in foreign exchange-credit trouble. But they made a move? They didn't move. Did they do something? [[Gergely Harvester: Yes!]] They didn't. They continued, starting in 2005, increasingly indebted to families, and as a result, families became increasingly in trouble, I repeat, hundreds of thousands of them. [[Zsolt Gréczy: The forint was strong!]] Then you stand up in your speech before the agenda and lie in front of everyone, lying in front of the country that you wanted to do everything you could and did for the families. That's just amazing. The most beautiful was when he recalled what Ferenc Gyurcsány said in 2005. What difference does it make? What did he say? He lied day, night and night, like he said. Listen to the fall speech one more time, one more time, one more time. They lied all over their government. After that, you will subpoena anything, something from Ferenc Gyurcsány, what he said then, and what he promises now? ! It doesn't matter! Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, What you represent in family policy is the continuation of family policy before 2010. They took the country to the brink of bankruptcy. They abolished the support for home creation, thus pushing hundreds and hundreds of thousands of families into foreign currency loans. [[Gergely Harvesto's constant interrogations.]] The family tax relief for single and two children has been abolished and the three- and multi-children have been greatly reduced. Hundreds of thousands of children in need have been left unsupported. They've closed down, you've closed hundreds of daycare centers, kindergartens and schools, and I'll add, since we're on Semmelweis Day, hospitals as well. [[Zsolt Gréczy: HUF 325 per euro!]] It was you who took a month's wages from people working in public employment. [[14.20]] It was you who took a month's pension from pensioners. [[Gergely Harvester: They were the LMPs.]] ; you were the ones who taxed it to death, or allowed companies to raise the rent even higher; you were the ones who made it more difficult for families. Now they dare to stand up and say anything about family support? ! But I think the simplest and most obvious is the many opposition amendments that are now in the year 2019. received for budget planning. What do you want? They are clearly on the side of the tax increase because they want to raise taxes. Clearly, they want to take away the benefits to families. By the way, even the smallest anarchist party tabled amendments [[Péter Ungár: What is the smallest anarchist party?]] and they want to take subsidies from families, reduce their chances by hundreds of billions of forints. And you're the ones who want to increase the price of energy by raising taxes. [[Zsolt Gréczy: When are you going to run for office?]] Ladies and Gentlemen, The Christian Democratic Group is clear that it supports the government's family policy, it is clear that it supports those amendments or changes [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] which the government has submitted to the Parliament, and we continue to support the budget for families. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-01-30	I give the floor to State Secretary Katalin Novák. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Congressman! [[Gergely Arató: They were not talking at a ministerial meeting!]] Dear fellow Members, It would be nice to have a question where opposition parties are able to stand behind a case. It would be nice to have a question, a case in Hungary in which we could learn from the Hungarian people. I think we should learn something from the Hungarian people, the Hungarian voters, because support for families is an issue in which there is a national consensus, in which Hungarian people are able to unite, throw their backs at each other and support the Hungarian family support system. I think, honourable Members and gentlemen, that it is possible to learn from the Hungarian people in this, and that this matter could be raised, supported and backed up, both in the budget and in every decision when it comes to the support of families. [[Gergely Harvesto: You're evicting them! A statement from DK: You take the child away from their parents!]] This is what I propose for us to learn from the Hungarian people and to support young Hungarians in enabling them to have children, so that they can have as many children as they want, and when they want to. This is what Hungarian family policy is all about, and this is what Hungarian family support is all about. We can be proud that there is no selfishness in Hungary that there is no envy in Hungary when it comes to family support. Hungarian people don't say that if I didn't have one, it shouldn't be for anyone else, if it was hard for us, it should be hard for our children and our grandchildren. On the contrary, they say that even if it was difficult for us in our time, even if we didn't have such support, it should be easier for our children, our grandchildren. This is where the Hungarian people join together and therefore support Hungarian family policy. This is what family policy has been about since 2010, because family policy is much more than numbers, much more than budget expenditure, much more than birth or death, different indicators or different data, because there are lives behind family policy, lives behind family decisions. Decisions about having children are lifelong decisions, not for four years, not for eight years, not for government cycles, but for life. It is therefore important that family policy be predictable, long-term and can be planned. That is why it is important not to marry, but to always make sure that Hungarian young people know that they can rely on the help we have introduced in the long term. That is why we decided in 2010 to continue to expand family support. First, we will restore the measures that were lifted between 2002 and 2010 and we will continue to add them. This is what we have been doing consistently since 2010, and this is reflected in the budget for next year, so it is important that you can support this. If we look at next year's budget, if we only compare it to this year, we can spend 11 percent more on supporting families, even though we have invested more than ever this year. In next year's budget, the sum of HUF 2200 billion in support of families is over HUF 2200 billion, which means that in 2020 there is more than two and a half times the amount available compared to the 2010 budget line, which also indicates that our commitment is not only oral, but also in the budget. And we have the results of the family support. It is clear that young people today have greater confidence in the future, courage to start a family, courage to have children. Today, in Hungary, when we look at the latest and last year's annual figures, we see that the number of marriages is at a peak of 20 years, it has increased nearly one and a half times in recent years. Childbearing is at the peak of 20 years, so for 20 years, young people have not taken on as many children as they did last year. It is evident that they dare to trust their future and dare to expect that in the long term, family support will grow and not shrink. Today is also important because this year we can continue to expand support for families with the family protection action plan. Today, the 1st of July, is also about the fact that today's young Hungarians have more opportunities if they are planning a child, wanting a family, or if they want to expand their home. From today you can apply for the baby shower support, from today you can use the car shopping support of large family members, from today you can borrow the CSOK loan to buy the used property, and from today, when the second child arrives, we will release the mortgage loans with HUF 1 million, HUF 4 million for the third child and HUF 1 million for each additional child, if the young people so require. Therefore, today is also a day of support for families. I ask you, fellow Members, to support Hungarian family policy, support Hungarian families and learn from the Hungarian people. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-01-32	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2019-07-01-33	Dear Parliament, Anita Potocskané Kőrösi, Jobbik; György Lukács, Jobbik; László Hajdu, DK; Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; László Horváth, Fidesz; Zita Gurmai, MSZP. On the day before the agenda tomorrow, the following representatives came forward: Gergely Arató, DK; Brenner Koloman, Jobbik; Péter Ungár, LMP; István Hiller, MSZP; Bence Tordai, Dialogue; István Simicskó, KDNP; László Böröcz, Fidesz. Zoltán Fenyvesi, Fidesz; Zsolt Nyitrai, Fidesz; Péter Ovádi, Fidesz; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik; Gergely Farkas, Jobbik.
u2019-07-01-34	Dear Parliament, President János Áder sent a transcript to the Parliament on the termination of the ministerial mandate. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to explain this.
u2019-07-01-35	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (paragraph 4 (c) of the Fundamental Law and the 2018 CXXV on Government Administration. Law 198. Mr László Trócsányi, Minister of Justice, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, was relieved of this mandate with effect from 30 June 2019. Sincerely, János Áder. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
u2019-07-01-36	Dear House, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time shall be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. We are now deciding on a proposal for a derogation from house rules. The House Committee has initiated the Parliament's XCIII of 1990 on levies to provide for a tax exemption for procedures relating to the application for baby shower support and the promotion of motor cars for large family members. T/6684. In the course of the negotiation of the No.3 proposal, move away from the house rules in such a way that the final vote can take place on tomorrow's day. He proposed a derogation from the house rules T/6684/1. You can get to know him on the website. Dear House, I ask you, you will contribute to the departure from the house rules of T/6684/1. On the basis of a number of recommendations. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has unanimously agreed to derogate from the house rules by 165 votes in favour. In accordance with our adopted decision, the amendment proposal can be tabled today at 16.30 a.m. The consolidated debate on the bill will take place as the last item on today's sitting, the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote on tomorrow's meeting. [[14.30]] Dear House, We are now deciding on a motion to amend the agenda. The Government has proposed that the agenda proposal for the extraordinary meeting of Parliament be supplemented by the XCIII of 1990 on levies in order to provide for a tax exemption in the procedures for applying for the baby shower allowance and the granting of passenger car support for large family members. T/6684. by negotiating and deciding bill No 1. Anyone who agrees with this decision, please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I note that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda with the amendment adopted above. Please also vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I note that the visible majority of this House has adopted the agenda. H/6622 on the establishment of an ad hoc committee for the members of the Media Council of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority. The decision to make a proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we will decide on the submitted text of the proposal for a decision in the course of the decision. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are doing this without debate. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/6622. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the House adopted the proposal by 163 votes in favour, with five abstentions, without voting against. Dear House, Now at 2:32 p.m., we move on to interpellation, immediate questions and questions. Brenner Koloman, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. Will you be able to talk about the real problems of Hungarian public and higher education beyond the government's success propaganda? It's an address. The congressman has the floor.
u2019-07-01-37	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Tibor Navracsics, EU Commissioner delegated by Fidesz, who would not be joining Fidesz today, presented the 2018 edition of the Education and Training Monitor at the end of the year 18, which evaluated the education system of the Member States of the European Union in very detailed detail. The European Council's Europe 2020 programme has set two main strategic objectives for the Member States of the European Union: on the one hand, to increase the number of graduates to 40 per cent, and to reduce the number of early school leavers to 10 per cent. Hungary has made a 34% commitment by 2020 to increase the proportion of graduates. Let us therefore look at where we are compared to the goals set. The rate of early school leavers is constantly increasing and the decline has not stopped in recent years. In terms of the number of graduates, the fall is even steeper, from 34.1 percent to 32 percent in 2014, and this desperate trend will continue, as according to a recent poll, an increasing number of 14 and 25-year-olds now 43 percent want to study in foreign higher education instead of in Hungary. This detachment is accelerated by an anti-knowledge and intellectual policy on the part of the governing parties, which will exclude a significant proportion of Hungarian youth from higher education from 2020 by linking the admission criteria to the existence of a secondary language exam with the exclusion of talented but poorer young people. These are therefore very serious challenges, and the question of how to obtain a degree and competitive knowledge in higher education, since the transfer of basic knowledge and skills in public education is already flawed, and very serious systemic problems are at stake. Who cares that your education policy means that between 2500 and 3000 teachers are missing from the system, and there was no mention of cosmetics? The wages of teachers who have been teaching for several decades are far below the European average, and for beginners it is just plain pathetic. In addition, half the teachers are over 50 years old, so a wave of retirement is about to start. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] of which the consequences for full education are completely inaccessible. So the stakes are very serious. What measures are you planning? Thank you for your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-07-01-38	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-39	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You are obviously very angry with young people and are angry with college students because you have been permanently abandoned by young people in the elections to the European Parliament and have not voted for you. [[Noise, interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] Your results dropped from 21 percent to 6.5 percent, and one of the flawed parts or groups of this seems to have been found in college students. At the same time, they have found new allies, the Dare to be small! In the left, and they will also take over this, when you constantly detract from the performance of Hungarians, the content of Hungarian students. You say that the proportion of graduates in Hungary is falling. Honourable Congressman, We have agreed that by 2020, you have quoted this well, 34 percent of graduates in the 30-34-year-old population. In 2010, it was 26.1 last time it was 33.7. Now, we are falling from 26.1 to 33.7 in quotes, and with this we have been very far away from 34 percent again, we are three-tenths of what we planned for 2020. This means that the proportion of graduates in this age group has increased by more than a quarter, and this will continue to increase, as we are spending 53 billion HUF of development resources on access to higher education. By the way, you forgot to mention that we're increasing your student normative by 40 percent in two years. Fortunately, honourable Member, at the end of the academic year, you could have listed other lists of what we are proud of. Do not forget that the Academic Ranking of World Universities presents five Hungarian universities as the university of the best universities: ELTE, University of Szeged, University of Semmelweis, University of Arts, University of Debrecen. If you look at the most recent list of Times Higher Education, there are seven universities: Semmelweis University, ELTE, University of Pécs, University of Szeged, University of Arts, Corvinus University, University of Debrecen. If you look at it, because they also show how much more foreign students want to come to Hungary, because the Hungarian education is of good quality, high quality, and the Hungarian degree is valuable, you see that the proportion of foreign students has increased by one and a half times. And if you look at a few weeks ago, perhaps two weeks ago, QS came out of the 2019 world ranking of higher education, honourable Member, you will find six Hungarian universities: University of Szeged, University of Debrecen, ELTE, University of Pécs, Budapest University of Technology and Economics, Corvinus University. These examine a wide variety of patterns, and, honourable Member, thanks to their additional funding and the fact that the Chancellors are finally providing financial security to universities, Hungarian universities and higher education institutions bring better results in international rankings. It is rare, perhaps it has never been so, if you look at different competitions and international competitions in higher education, that in the same year both major international litigation competitions, which are not held in Hungarian, were won by Hungarian teams. But we also won the Global Space Balloon Challenge competition with the balloon team, the Epson competition won prizes with industrial robots by Hungarian students, but the Ballet Grand Prix also won the first Hungarians. A Hungarian youth plans one of LEGO's new collections, the youth programmer competition was won by the team of Fazekas with an interactive social application. Honourable Congressman, Before burying the entire Hungarian public education and higher education system, take into account that there are such beautiful results. Of course, in your allies' time, they were less when they took a month's wages from teachers, laid off 15,000 teachers and wanted to introduce tuition fees. As regards this statement, honourable Member, [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] If you had read it, you would have seen that the proportion of teachers over the age of 50 in Germany is 45 percent and we have 37. So we joined before the Germans, that with Klebelsberg scholarship and wage increase, young people should be encouraged to go to the teaching field. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-01-40	I will give the floor once again to the Member for a return answer.
u2019-07-01-41	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, All these very beautiful results, among other things, have been achieved by my colleagues at ELTE despite your policy. [[Agnes Kunhalmi, applause: That's right!]] [[14.40]] The 2020 budget tells you very precisely what your government thinks about the university world and public education. What I'm talking about is that for nine years, they've been largely governed by two thirds, Ference Gyurcsány and Florian Wolf are still not in prison, by the way. [[L. Simon László: You conspired with him!]] the situation of education has not been touched. [[Noise. Intercom from Jobbik's benches: That's right! The president's ringing the bell.]] With regard to the problems I have raised, I would like to add that we were slightly higher in terms of GDP than we are at the moment in the budget. Jobbik as a National People's Party [[Deterioration from the pro-government benches.]] He will always stand up for the renewal of education, and they can safely put their sarcastic smiles where I think they are. I don't accept your answer. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: What does that mean? A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-07-01-42	The congressman didn't accept the answer. I ask the House, and it accepts the Secretary of State's reply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 122 votes to 39, with no abstentions. Dezső Believing, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister's Office with the title of the extension of the license. Congressman's got the floor. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The extension of a license in today's world is a day-to-day thing. Thousands of people live every day to realize that their driver's license is running out. It's okay, it's got a set of procedures, not a complicated case. With the necessary documents, we'll go to one of the government windows, and then life will go on thinking of this by the voter whose story will allow us to get a picture of the state's operation. We've already had a picture, because at various press conferences, we've heard great victory reports, they've handed over the new government windows at Western and Eastern Stations, and new developments have started. But let's look at the Hungarian reality. The citizen asks for access to the nearest steering window in the centre of Újpest long before closing. He'll get there, but one hour before closing, the serial draw machine won't issue a number. As long as our friend grieves, there will be about 15 more. Phone. Call your boss so he can start work later the next day because he's running a government case. But another disappointment, because the next morning, such a matter cannot be dealt with in Newpesten. But there's no time to wait or argue, to get confused, to go to the nearest steering window, the Camel Street. It's not gonna be a problem. It's a big office. When you arrive after nine o'clock, you can put up the table. It's full. There's so many people in line that you can't even see the serial number machine. But let's keep going. Three subway stops, and there's a fresh new crunchy steering window at West Square. Well, there's a driver's license that he thought was just glowing. He also received, but not a driver's license, but a nervous attack, because instead of a driver's license, he was received by a tablet closed for technical reasons. There's no time, let's keep going. Tram six, and it's already in front of Andrássy Road, which you can see from a distance, because people are standing on the sidewalk. He wanted to have a human relationship, so he stopped here to talk. They told him he wouldn't stand a chance here because there are few administrators, but maybe at Elizabeth Square. He's running over there, full house, but he's encouraged to have the little card in an hour. It was about an hour and a half, and he got some good advice. It means that things like this have to be done by making an appointment. Since you were available at the time, you had to give it a try, get an appointment for a month. Dear Secretary of State, Do you think that's acceptable? To deal with five-minute cases, four to five government windows need to be visited, half of Budapest's tour and one day off. It is clear that government windows in the capital are increasingly in need of labour and that those working there are superhuman. But how long can they last? Mr. Secretary, what are we going to do in the future if we're going to deal with the government windows? What are you planning to do to solve the problem? Thank you.
u2019-07-01-44	I give the floor to State Secretary Balázs Orbán.
u2019-07-01-45	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, In the context of his speech, which includes folktale elements, I can say the following. [[Intruder from the benches of the MSZP: How funny!]] In 2010, the government that took office had to face not only the debt of Hungarian families and local governments, the deterioration of public security, the collapse of the economic system, but also the Hungarian state's functioning has been in crisis as a result of your eight-year government. The Hungarian State has not been able to deal effectively with the economic, financial and public security crisis, among other things because of it [[Bence of Turda: Now the system is collapsing!]] that they were working in a fragmented, opaque institutional structure, and that the tasks of the local government and the administration were blurred. This has made the lives of both officials and citizens difficult. Citizens are lost in cases, in the jungle of the offices, instead of moving case files, citizens have had unnecessary time in bureaucracy. Typical case between 2002 and 2010 when the offices ask citizens for information which is otherwise available to another office. This is your sense of state, which was about the need to derail everything that concerns the state, everything must be privatised, and the civil-friendly administration as a concept has not been included in your vocabulary of governance. I'm not saying it was you who reduced the salary of the office staff by taking the 13th month allowance away from them. We then started to implement a service-friendly, citizen-friendly state in 2010 or so. We have created a transparent and clear administrative structure, and we have created opportunities for a one-stop shop. From 2011 the national government window network was launched. Right now, there are 302 government windows to handle the case. More than ten million official cases are handled in these government windows by citizens in one year. Plus, the system of mobile government windows is already running nationwide. In addition, we have tried to improve the appreciation of public administrations. For this reason, in 2016-17, the salary of those working in the territorial administration increased by 10-60 percent, depending on their qualifications and position. Our plan is to continue to increase this. From this year onwards, the wages of those working in the central administration increased by an average of 30 percent. The government is also constantly investigating the operation of government agencies, the sustainability of high quality services. We are not building on your feedback and on your speech as politicians with folklore elements, but on the feedback of the people who deal with matters, and if intervention is necessary, we will take these measures. In addition, on 1 July additional tasks were added to the government offices and the number of administrations increased significantly. We have therefore also made transfers. The temporary closure of the government windows you mentioned is due to renovation. It serves the same purpose. [[Lajos Rig: That's what they said about hospitals.]] In order to be able to deal with the official matters that you have spoken about in even more comfortable circumstances. We are also planning further simplifications: we would like to review 600-700 pieces of authority and deregulate as far as possible. You specifically mentioned the issue of your driver's license. I would like to inform you that we are specifically working on simplifications in official matters relating to the application, issue and registration of a licence. The government has already discussed this. I would ask you to follow the changes in the Hungarian Gazette in this regard. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-07-01-46	Once again, Mr. Congressman has the floor.
u2019-07-01-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Secretary of State, looking at your answer from the perspective of the people, what you have said is useless. So maybe you won't be offended that I won't accept that answer. I also sense that the safety and comfort of the people is not an issue for you. We live here in Budapest almost every day or every other day that a bus burns down, burns out, burns down and burns to the ground. People boil on the subway and spend half their lives waiting in different offices. Last week you held a crisis meeting because the administration of Budapest collapsed. If I had been invited, I would have been able to give you some good advice. Among other things, there are enough people there to regroup from, say, the Rogán Ministry. I think at least these people would have done something useful. And in general, I could have advised you that more steam on the wheels and less steam on the whistle. [[Attila Mesterházy: He's right! Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2019-07-01-48	The congressman didn't accept the answer. I ask the House whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 115 votes to 36, with no abstentions. [[14.50]] Zsolt Gréczy, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister's Office:. Will the Balaton be taken from the people? It's an address. It's for the congressman, please.
u2019-07-01-49	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Minister, Mr. Secretary. Hundreds of thousands of Hungarians are worried that now they will not be able to go on vacation to Lake Balaton. The concern is understandable, since Minister of Finance Mihály Varga told them that those who do not like weak forints should not travel anywhere, stay on their asses; they should have the Hungarian sea, our shared pride, on Lake Balaton. [[Peter Cseresnyés: That's not what he said!]] The only problem is that Fidesz privatizes that. It is particularly repulsive and outrageous when you read that a campsite will cease to be built for luxury apartments. On the south shore, free beaches are already in danger, where many families are trying to rest for at least a few days, trying to endure the precious Balaton. Fresh weekend news that a new settlement was inaugurated at Lake Balaton: Balatonaliga name of the Balatonaligarcha. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: How witty!]] Because the covered pair, Lőrinc Mészáros and István Tiborcz decided with a barrier that no one can enter the vicinity of Lake Balaton from there; this is a rather repulsive and disgusting gesture. So the winner of the Balaton installation is the business circles of Fidesz and Viktor Orbán, and the Hungarian people are the losers. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] The biggest winner is, of course, Lőrinc Mészáros and István Tiborcz; the good friend and son-in-law of the Prime Minister are 14 campsites, 10 hotels are owned around Lake Balaton. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: No brains!]] In the real estate market, it is generally believed that it is worth moving near the Mészárosses in the vicinity of Lake Balaton or investing in their neighbors, because such an area will certainly improve. It's no different than Lake Balaton. As the Mészáros-Tiborcz interest circle began to expand at Lake Balaton, it immediately became a new Balaton law, a development plan despite the fact that the lake area does not have a common management system today. Even though the residents protest, despite their concern for water quality, environmental damage caused by tree cutting, the green organizations continue to rob. DK asks whether free beaches remain or are closed so that only the Fidesz elite can own the Hungarian sea. I'm waiting for an answer. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for the DK benches.]]
u2019-07-01-50	Mr. Miklós Soltész is the secretary of state.
u2019-07-01-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, There's always a charm when you're sticking around in DK's country about dictatorship and theft. By the way, don't worry, for example, your Autumn will remain as a holiday resort, and on the other hand, in relation to your name, it is clear as sentences or reports linked to one of the biggest lies in the country. [[Noise and interruptions in opposition benches.]] Ferenc yurcsány said that you can leave this country. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: But to whom did he say it, and why did he say it? That's what should be explained. Those who went to Slovakia to start a company and didn't want to pay taxes!]] It was you, left-wing representatives and politicians, who said that Ágnes Vadai, who now needs to build a Sukorón casino again, is to shut everyone off from the northern shore of Lake Venice. [[There's a lot of noise in the opposition benches.]] They were gonna steal that part, too. [[Gergely Harvestó: No beach!]] You were the ones who made one of the biggest corruption scandals in the European Union by investing in metro 4. [[Gergely Arató and Dr. Agnes Vadai intervene.]] I just want to ask the other embarrassing DK, where this money is, where the left has put it, and where the liberals have put this money. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: What money?!]] You were one of their best friends, by the way, Zsolt Gréczy who stole the money from the students, were not ashamed of themselves, and is now being protected, and they are also helping this man, DK and MSZP together. By the way, you're the ones who live in stolen property, abducted property, and still live in a kidnapped house. [[There's constant noise in the opposition benches. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Who? Who? Me? Where? Where do I live in stolen property?]] Their concept of democracy is nothing more than the autumn speech, and then the subsequent, I might add, eyeballing. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Nananaaaa! This proved not to be true!]] After that, whatever DK asks, whatever the left questions, it is worth paying attention to, whatever they say, it is worth paying attention to, because the opposite will surely be true! [[There's a lot of noise in the benches of DK and MSZP. Gergely Harvestó: Free beach!]] And that is also true of this question that you have just asked Zsolt Gréczy. Because you were the ones who did not support the amendment of the Balaton Act and any new thing that would confirm, even more so, the preservation of the beauty of Lake Balaton was not supported or voted for! They did not vote in favour of conservation issues, they did not vote in favour of environmental issues, they did not vote in favour of municipal protection issues and water protection issues. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] The current law further strengthens the use of coastal areas for public purposes, in particular the rules on the conservation of beaches, campsites, recreational green areas and coastal promenades and the accessibility of the coast. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Where? Gergely Arató: That's also Lőrinc Mészáros!]] You did not support this. Just as they didn't support what was left of the previous Balaton law, that 10 percent of the beach can be built up and at least 65 percent of the woodwork; but we made it more difficult and further strengthened the protection of the beaches for which you are so concerned. A residential and holiday building, accommodation and apartments in the beach area are not possible. Nor has it been voted in accordance with the new law to maintain, strengthen and continue to comply with the rules on public green areas. They didn't vote! Then I'm sorry, Congressman, what are you asking? [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Why are they closing the exit? That's what you asked.]] You do not support the fact that the Lake Balaton Act only helps the lives of holidaymakers in Lake Balaton on the beaches. You did not support the fact that last year there were 2 billion-dollar beaches renewed, this year for 5 billion forints; not only next to Lake Balaton, but also in Tisza and other areas. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: You did very well! Right now, right now!]] You are the ones who do not support any investment, which is good for people, but from the other side where you have to steal, where you have to privatise, where you have to take it away from people, you have been involved. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: You're stealing! You're stealing! There's a lot of noise in the opposition benches.]] Thank you so much for asking, it doesn't matter what [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Ask questions, lie in the morning, night and night. [[A big round of applause in the pro-government benches. Dr. Agnes Vadai: Noon!]]
u2019-07-01-52	I don't know, Congressman, do you need a minute, or has Agnes Vadai already yelled at the rejoinder? [[Noise. Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]]
u2019-07-01-53	I'm going to file a complaint about a biased meeting.
u2019-07-01-54	But I didn't give you the floor. I haven't given you the floor yet. [[Zsolt Gréczy stays standing, the president turns off the microphone. Zsolt Gréczy: I must reject this as an opposition representative immediately! Mr. Speaker, stop this. Rushing in the pro-government benches, interrogations in the benches of MSZP and DK. Zsolt Gréczy: You have no right to do this! It's a rare round of applause in the opposition benches.]] Mr. Congressman! The thing is, you know, you can't judge the board of directors by the rules of the house, so I'm gonna take the floor from you. Sit down, please. [[A big round of applause in the pro-government benches. Dr. Agnes Vadai is in touch.]] The congressman did not accept the answer, as you have heard. I ask the House whether it accepts it. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Mr. Speaker, I did not say that! Don't tell me I didn't take it. Dr. Agnes Vadai: No, no! He didn't say.]] I cut you off. Congressman, sit down. I cut you off! [[Zsolt Gréczy: I even gave you the right to reply!]] Please vote. [[Great noise and interruptions in the benches of DK and MSZP. To intervene:]] Yeah, let's bet. [[Zsolt Gréczy pointing to Miklós Soltész: I will sue you, you lied! You will answer before a court of law! You're a scoundrel! You will answer before a court of law! An uproar in the pro-government benches. Vote.]] I find that the House has adopted the answer by 98 votes to 12, with no abstentions. [[Zsolt Gréczy: You will pay a lot of money! An uproar in the pro-government benches.]] Dear Parliament, If everyone has regained their peace of mind, we can move on. Márta Demeter and Lóránt Keresztes, representatives of LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Innovation and Technology. [[Márta Demeter rises to speak.]] I see Congresswoman Márta Demeter has the floor, please.
u2019-07-01-55	Thank you. Mr President, Allow me to begin by saying that very important things need to be put here for the plenary session of Parliament, and, regardless of many parties, I think that there is a topic that concerns people's lives here. I think it should be about these in Parliament. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] In the spirit of this, I am asking Mr Secretary of State about the MÁV. It's not the best days of the MÁV these days. In fact, the Hungarian railway company currently fits into a burlesque film rather than a modern company providing one of the most important public services in the country. Only in recent weeks has it turned out that we have been able to buy bunk trains that would be stuck in the tunnel of the South Railway Station, because they cannot fit under it. Before that, we managed to leave 40 people on the monori line, because they forgot to tell them that the train was not running because of the failure of the locomotive. All of this, of course, is comedy at first glance, actually infinitely disappointing and outrageous. The problem was acknowledged by the stakeholders themselves. Dr. László Kermános, Deputy Chief Executive Officer of the MÁV himself said that there will be a need for transformation to take these trains to the South Railway Station and Kőbánya-Kispest. At least in his opinion, the course bed should be redesigned. [[15.00]] In our view, rail development would be a very important task in Hungary. On the one hand, the real green light must make the car a realistic alternative to public transport and, in particular, rail. On the other hand, one of the most effective tools against internal migration is the development of infrastructure and, in particular, of Community transport. Unfortunately, however, we are heading in the opposite direction in Hungary today, the government does not seem to recognize the need for this. The Fidesz government itself, once protesting the closure of the wing lines, cancels the flights itself. If there is an accidental development, there is only one aspect to make as much money as possible for the oligarchs, and to do so Lőrinc Mészáros should have the best opportunity. The saddest example of this is the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, which will pay approximately HUF 300 billion to Lőrinc Mészáros companies. But the former mayor of Felcsút recently won a HUF 1 billion IT tender at the MÁV, and even in the case of the heat, he can deliver the water distributed to the passengers. So, my questions to the Secretary of State: when will the government finally begin to deal with the development of the railway in a well-thought-out concept of capital and rural development? Do you really think the government should spend 600 billion forints on the development of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, while even reaching county-righted cities takes hours to reach today by train? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2019-07-01-56	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I salute my fellow Members. State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés responds. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-07-01-57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You must have missed the LMP fraction by the fact that the government has spent HUF 1500 billion or spent on railway development in the investments already decided by 2022. In recent years, the Szajol-Püspökladány, Szolnok-Békéscsaba, Kelenföld-Székesfehérvár, Lepsény-Balatonszentgyörgy, Fonyód-Kaposvár section has been renewed, we have electrified the railway line Hegyeshalom-Porpác, Szombathely-Zalaszentiván, Rákosdirector-Esztergom, and soon between Mezőzombor and Sátoraljaújhely the tram transport will start. Works are ongoing in the Kelenföld-Pusztaszabolcs, Rákos-Hatvan and Püspökladány-Debrecen sections, and in the near future the electrification of the section from Szabadbattyán to Balatonfüred and the reconstruction of the southern bridge of Budapest. Europe's largest single engine fleet runs on renewable tracks. A total of 143 new FLIRTs have been put on the market in recent cycles, 34 new electric locomotives have entered the MÁV and GYSEV routes. If you think this is neglecting the railway network, then I would be very interested to know what my fellow Member means by development or how he would describe the eight years he spent on the railway before 2010. The development of the following years indeed includes the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, as you mentioned. On the basis of your statement, it is likely that new information will be available to you that Hungary has already committed itself to the European Union in 2014 to develop the TEN-T railway lines, which are part of the international network, to the technical level required by the Union for such lines by 2030. The Budapest-Belgrád line is also part of this network. The modernisation of the strategic railway line evaluates Hungary's international role and underpins further economic development. I also draw the attention of my fellow Member that not only did the government have to stop the permanent degradation of the railway network and the fleet in 2010, but the Hungarian Railways themselves had to be pulled out of the pothole that the left-wing governments, including those of your ally, made up of a debt of nearly HUF 300 billion. Compared to this, the MÁV is now providing a step-by-step development service that is being used by more and more passengers. To add data, in 2018, only on the ten busiest lines, 2.8 million people were added to the travel population according to the statistics of the railway company. In your speech, you insult the conscientious professional guard of this railway company when you make them look like they've forgotten about the Kiss-Gellert-mountain tunnel when you get the KISS-story train. There are two options, Congresswoman: you are either careless in your work or you are trying to mislead people. It is well-known, at least for professionals and informed people, that it was not even necessary for bunk trains to run from the South Railway Station for the time being. And if it were to happen later, [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I'll settle for cleaning the trains at last!]] There is also the right solution to put new trains into service on this line. You don't have to yell, Congresswoman, you have to be informed, and you would have seen all of this. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That's what I do on the train, Mr. Secretary.]] Or maybe you don't know, or maybe you don't know that these huge-capacity motor trains are only worth putting into service on the most busy lines, and that's the plan. Therefore, because this is the original plan, please accept my answer. [[Gergely Harvester: Definitely! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-01-58	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congresswoman to accept the Secretary of State... [[For signal:]] Chief of Staff will explain whether you accept or do not accept the Secretary of State's reply. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-59	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. The interpellation was submitted by two of us, and I would like to respond to the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State is ignoring the signals of professionals and, in particular, ignoring the recognition of the MÁV. Exactly the experts say that the Hungarian railway network is in terrible condition, and the HUF 1500 billion you mentioned is insufficient even for symptomatic treatment. He mentioned the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. In connection with this, the fact that this is a completely unnecessary investment is acknowledged by the government by the fact that the main justification was to reach a sea exit, the port of Pyreus, and the government knows precisely that even if this particular development between Budapest-Belgrád, the Balkan route will remain 80 percent inadequate in this section. The government has started developing an alternative, competing sea exit in Trieste, Trieste, to establish a port and logistics base, recognising that there will never be anything, and that this certain development, including interest, will never pay off. The thousand billion that Hungarian taxpayers bear are very much absent from the development of the terrible domestic railway network. Your reply, Mr. Secretary, we cannot accept it.
u2019-07-01-60	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear House, We heard you didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 116 votes in favour, 32 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister's Office:. When does the government recognize the crisis caused by the introduction of the slave law in the administration? It's an address. Congressman Cake Olivio has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-61	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Fidesz was commissioned at the last parliamentary election to run the country and the state administration. But in many cases, it has failed. Last time, pensions could not be transferred in time, and now, in the case of government windows, they are not performing the task they have been assigned to Hungarian voters. This whole case is a good example of the Fidesz administration. When, after the adoption of the slave law, we went to demonstrate to the Directorate-General for Pensions and said that, because of the public service slave law, it is not good for workers to include half an hour's lunch break in their working hours, it is not good for the county and capital government officials to no longer have the cafeteria, it is not good for the fundamental freedom to be reduced from 25 days to 20 days, it is not good for workers to be exploited when we said these things, then the Fidesz politicians were just mocking and they said that the opposition was just fighting. Now it turns out that's not true. Increased working hours, wage cuts instead of promised increases, with a significant increase in the workload, total lack of appreciation, 2,500 have been requested in the last month. About 7 percent of the workers left the public service sector, which is already understaffed. The result is that the steering windows are paralyzed. Rightfully irritated, impatient customers, overworked workers, hours of waiting, if there is a serial number for that day. Of course, according to the government, there is no problem, as you could hear from the previous Secretary of State's response. First they referred to technical reasons, the newly renovated Eastern Western government windows were not opened on this basis, and then when it was found that this was not true, they finally admitted that there was a problem, but that they were not treating the root of the problem, but were reducing the opening hours by seven hours a week, and that workers were ordered from the countryside. [[15.10]] This will lead to a further line of jobs and further exploitation of workers, rather than finally withdrawing the public service slave law and respecting public service workers. Dear Secretary of State, When do you see your error as a result of your misguided wage policy action and cause the problems and modify them as the trade unions ask? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2019-07-01-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, responds to his interpellation question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-07-01-63	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, You are a new Member of Parliament here in this House, but the fact remains that you have joined a parliamentary faction that is engaged in a continuous ally relationship with a faction that has a government responsibility between 2002 and 2010. [[Intercoms from DK and MSZP.]] So I think what you're saying is uncredited, because if you were really interested in the people working in the administration, or if you were interested in the system of relations between citizens and the state, you wouldn't be a member of this faction. Because, after all, it is the case that the government between 2002 and 2010 is going into the history of Hungarian politics as the period when the state was shutting down when it served private interests, not the interests of citizens, and, by the way, at a lower level in the state, not at the level of public administration, but at the level of the public service, the appreciation of those working in the public service level was pushed into the depths, including their financial appreciation. However, it is unprecedented that it is not that the wages of public service workers have not increased, but have decreased, so it has been reduced by taking away one third of the benefits from public service workers. So from this point of view, what you're saying seems rather untrue to me. In addition, let me add two things: the Orbán government, which was re-established in 2018, set itself two goals for the functioning of the state, and I do not understand why you are constantly attacking these two goals, because I cannot make a sensible, rational argument about what these two objectives could be. One is cutting red tape and the other is increasing the wages of public sector workers. What have we done in the last year? We have taken steps to achieve these two goals. One of the objectives, the reduction of bureaucracy, means that only so many people need to work in public administration. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We've managed to get the numbers down.]] Every unnecessary employee in the public service is an assassination attempt on taxpayers. And I would like to draw attention to one more wash. When we talk about the public sector, teachers, doctors, maybe the police, it's a completely different sphere. We are talking specifically about bureaucracy workers. All research shows that unfortunately, the Hungarian state is still too large, bureaucracy needs to be reduced, and I am pleased to report that we have made progress in this, and we have managed to achieve a substantial reduction in bureaucracy. Moreover, the financial appreciation of these people, precisely because of the prehistoric history that you have taken in Parliament, is actually legitimate, extremely offensive and extremely bad. We were able to give a wage increase in parallel, contrasting with quality, contrasting with the idea of service administration, we were able to make progress in this too. In 2016-2017 we raised wages for regional government workers, i.e. those working in district offices, government offices and government windows. If you're asking if it's enough, no, I don't think it's enough. We are constantly working to provide additional wage increases, and in the central administration we have been able to give an average 30 percent wage increase from this year. So I would like to ask you to reconsider your position, because at the moment your sitting point, the place you occupy in Parliament, only predestines that I have to declare your speeches of this type uncredited, because your relationship with the facts does not stop at all. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-01-64	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask the congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-65	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, I'm glad it's personal, but I want you to say something to the citizen who hasn't been able to handle his affairs in the last few days, and he's suffered some damage, or to the public service worker who's working himself to death, he's not with his family, and he's not even getting paid properly. You say it was a raise. Then why are 2,500 people leaving their profession? Why are they leaving? ! Dear Secretary of State, I'm sure the people standing in line and the people sitting on the other side of the window wouldn't accept your answer, so neither would I. [[It's a rare round of applause in the dialogue.]]
u2019-07-01-66	Thank you very much. Dear House, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 115 votes in favour, 33 against and without abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, Member László Böröcz, representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice:, What is the protection of personal data in Hungary? It's an address. Mr László Böröcz has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-67	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The name Ákos Hadházy, who hangs out in opposition cooperation, has another scandal. The congressman has never been a stranger to do anything for political gain, without the choice of means. If his political interests so desired, he made a secret recording of his party's fellows, or even handled his interparty conflicts hiding behind the party's disciplinary committee. But ignoring the law is also part of his portfolio: we all remember his attempts to book a TV station with aggressive and comical elements. Although if we were to assume that a country was going to get to know its punchy socks, then obviously the congressman's action was a success. Once again, the unscrupulous enforcement of the political gain has arrived at a new stage: the personal data of hundreds of thousands of Hungarian citizens acquired during the failed collection of signatures could be acquired by a foreign company with an unclear background. From the outset, it was suspicious that database building and political gain could in fact be behind the collection of signatures supported by MSZP and Momentum. Once again, it has been demonstrated that on the opposition side, the selection of assets or the number of victims in order to gain political benefits does not matter at all. The Fidesz-KDNP fraction has repeatedly called on Ákos Hadházy to clarify the circumstances of the scandal. Despite this, the opposition representative continues to dissuade and avoid specific responses to the details of the worrying issue. We now call on Ákos Hadházy again here, in front of the public of the Parliament, to answer: for what purpose was the foreign company with a confused background assigned to this data processing, and what other dubious tasks were ordered from them? Make it clear where the data of the Hungarian people went. We also call on the Momentum and the Socialists to support Hadházy's activities, so that if they have any knowledge of the matter, they should not be accomplices to Hadházy. [[Bence of Turdai:...ask us!]] Dear Secretary of State, In view of what has been said, I would like to ask the Secretary of State about the protection of personal data in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-01-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Pál Völner responds to his interpellation question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-07-01-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We all know that we adopted the Hungarian GDPR regulation here in the House on 25 May 2018 to protect personal data. The legal regulatory environment is appropriate in Hungary today, ensuring the highest level of protection. There is only one task for everyone who comes close to data: they must comply with the legislation. Indeed, in the cases published here by Ákos Hadházy as an information document on the collection of signatures, whether we consider data processing information or data protection information, there are a number of contradictions. For example, it is included in the privacy notice that the purpose of the signature collection is, among other things, to submit it to a notary. I would like to reassure and enlighten everyone here in this House that such a notary procedure does not exist in Hungary today. You can say that Ákos Hadházy deceived all those whom he asked for his personal data, recorded them, and looks at them practically as a database, since he himself writes that he wants to send them information. In addition, it is included in the data protection notice that the data controller will keep the references completed and submitted to the controller closed until the petition is submitted, but not later than 31 May 2019, only staff assisting the controller representative's work may obtain or have access to them. [[15.20]] Compared to this, there is a company registered in America that deals with this activity in the data management brochure, which he also issued. You can see that you have access to these data abroad, so again, only your data protection information was incomplete, not properly arranged, or you can say that you have deceived those who have signed. It is very interesting, for example, to state the clause in the prospectus where Dr. Ákos Hadházy reserves the right to unilaterally modify the data processing notice. So it is also possible that it has already changed these data controller information data in a form that describes in its entirety the process that it has actually done, but the question is that standing on the ground of law, when we limit these rights in the general terms and conditions of a bank contract or other contract, why would it belong to it, and why would it use it, or why would it deceive voters again. Ákos Hadházy has the right, of course, to give his opinion on this matter, to collect signatures, but we would draw his attention and his associates' attention to the fact that we might even think about it, because he said something about Momentum and MSZP handling these data themselves, they are not with him, he spoke about 130,000 signatures, if I remember correctly, in the press. This is also an interesting development and branching of the case that, in fact, parties treat this story just as loosely as if the protection of personal data, which is demanded, advertised and protected here in Parliament, does not exist for them in reality and on the ground of practice. Overall, the legal system itself, as I mentioned in the introduction, provides sufficient protection, and we hope that the investigation of NAIH will fully cover all the activities, all the actors involved in this case, and that there will be appropriate findings that exclude these adventurous actions for the future and maintain these relations with voters in an appropriate form. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-01-70	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Mr László Böröcz to accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-71	Thank you very much. Mr President, Of course, I accept the Secretary of State's reply. It is nonsense, however, that Congressman Hadházy, in every interview, says something different about the details of the case, as a data processor named several companies, that is not clear about the details of the case either. In order to protect the data of the Hungarian people, Hungarian young people, the elderly and the Hungarian working people, it is necessary to obtain reassuring answers in this case, so that they will never happen again. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: And go to Parliament.]] And go to Parliament. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-01-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, As we have heard, the congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Mr. Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:, When will the government catch up with the 21st century? Company? It's an address. On behalf of the Minister for Innovation and Technology László Palkovics, who is responsible for tasks and tasks under the theme will be answered by Minister of State Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-07-01-73	Mr President, Dear House, The economic impact of roboticisation has long been discussed in European research workshops and professional organisations, and the conclusion is unanimous that hundreds of thousands of jobs can be lost, threatened or transformed from one European country to another. However, my questions on the subject have not been answered in a professional and meaningful way, and on the part of the Government of Hungary we do not see the impulses that would indicate that this government is prepared for a change that, according to professional organisations, is most likely to upset two sectors: one is car manufacturing and the other is logistics. In a situation where the performance of foreign car manufacturing networks is exposed to a very large section of the Hungarian economy, and our regional exposure is something brutal, and not prepared for this is at least a professional and political mistake. I have to say that the situation where more than 25 percent of Hungarian exports and Hungarian imports are made towards or from Germany creates a clear situation. In Hungary, there are a large number of multi-company assembly companies, with which the government enters into a strategic agreement, giving them different discounts, which are not for Hungarian micro-, small- and medium-sized enterprises, and it is also clear that they are trying to be nice to these companies by artificially maintaining a low wage level. If, on the other hand, there is a crisis that the professional representation of German automotive companies is predicting with a 5 percent decline this year, then what happens first? In the event of trouble, orders from smaller companies at the end of the supply chain will be cancelled, and you can see a miracle: in Hungary, news has started that some of the orders of the company that works here, which supplies cooling and heating pipes, have been returned or dismissed. A week later, the news came that the car-car-car-car-car supplier company dismissed, set down Hungarian workers, and while we see that Hungarian economic data seems to be impressive, seemingly attractive, the fact that the Hungarian micro-, small- and medium-sized enterprises sector is fighting for a living while multi-business companies enjoy unjustified benefits. So the question is clear: when will the government learn from the messages of the third millennium, when will it put our own micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in position, when will it renegotiate its strategic agreements with the relevant multi-enterprises, when will it commit to at least a slow increase and increase in the Hungarian wage level, and when, overall, will it finally give up assembly plant status in order to be able to survive in any crisis through successful, independent, self-built companies? Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-07-01-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-07-01-75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Before I answer your question in more detail, I would like to respond to some of your thoughts, otherwise in the interpellation. If what you say about losing jobs is true, then explain to everyone how it can happen that 800,000 more people work in Hungary today than they did in 2010 during the governance of your allies. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: What are you talking about?]] So every single worker is needed by the Hungarian labour market. How do you think that Hungary is a assembly plant when you need to know that, for example, two major companies using modern technology and technology have brought the centre of its development here, the Jaguar and the Audi, so this is also a measure of the credibility of your words for the time being; what you said can be disproved immediately. And for the past few weeks... [[Z. Kárpat Dániel: Try to answer...]] I have answered exactly what you have asked, Mr President; these you have raised, but I see that the rebuttal is already painful for you, because it has turned out that you were not telling the truth in your question. So, based on the meetings of the last few weeks, Jobbik and the left seem to have formed some sort of past theme community of modern machine-breakers to scare citizens over and over again with the invasion of robots and the loss of jobs. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] This prediction will also come to the fate of their blinds so far, as the government has in time recognised the importance of roboticization, automation and digitalisation, and has launched the measures and programmes needed for it. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] so that the Hungarian people can be the winners and beneficiaries of the Hungarian economy, the technology change. The government considers robotisation not as a threat, but as an opportunity, which helps to complete the Hungarian growth model by improving productivity, raising added value to a higher level and innovation. The emergence and use of new technologies will lead to the development of job requirements and employment rather than to a reduction in employment. Robots, artificial intelligence, are not our enemies; if we use their potential wisely, there will be much more jobs, and there will be research to do so than there will be. New technologies do not push workers out of the labour market, but support them and improve the efficiency of work. Of course, it is essential for workers to have access to the knowledge and skills needed to cope with the changing circumstances in the labour market. [[15.30]] The Vocational Training 4.0 strategy adopted by the government provides a solution to this. Our aim is to ensure that all young Hungarians get out of the school system by providing, in addition to the basic competences, the skills that provide the basis for learning the skills required by the digital economy and lifelong learning. The training includes the requirements of industry 4.0 and the digital content required in each profession. Honourable Congressman, We understand, of course, what this is really about: the opposition has been trying for years to convince people that our economic success since 2010 does not really exist, but it can be said here in relation to the elections that have taken place over the past period that this experiment is in vain. The Hungarian people, as proved by the results of the European Parliament elections, cannot be deceived. Hungarian people know precisely that, thanks to their joint work and efforts between the Hungarian people and the government, since 2010 we have reduced unemployment to less than ever before, so we have created nearly 800 thousand new jobs [[The president's ringing the bell.]] In the meantime, the technology change and automation process you referred to has been launched. Thank you very much for your attention and, in view of what has been said, I would like to ask for my answer to be accepted. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Peter Ungár applauds.]]
u2019-07-01-76	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa to accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-77	Mr President, Dear House, I do not wish to classify the Secretary of State, but when he says that the Hungarian people know exactly and continue the party conference report, you could have been thrown to the same point on the same planet 40 years earlier, no one would have noticed the difference. Because, Mr. Secretary, you can qualify me, not only for me, but also for the voters behind us. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: There are fewer and fewer of them!]] In these cases, his soul on it; a strong winner would not behave this way, but you are not a strong winner. I would like to tell you that you are not arguing with me: the professional representation of German automotive companies has projected a 5 percent decline, which has led to these cuts starting in Hungary. I have mentioned specific cases, Mr Secretary; you are untrained [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. Dr. Bence of Rétvári: How modest of you!]] He was imperfect to give a meaningful professional answer. It was full of acquiescence, but it can be seen that while for you, these people, the people who work there, are simple barcodes, we see real Hungarian people behind them. That's why we will if we have to. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] To stand up to you for their help, because for you, these people seem to be barcodes. I don't accept the answer.
u2019-07-01-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer, so I'm asking you to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply 112 yes, 27 with no vote and no abstention. Dear Parliament, Representative László Földi, representative of KDNP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. Who is assisted by the current application of the Home Gay Program? It's an address. It is for Congressman László Földi to take the floor. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As a result of the successful economic policy of the Fidesz-KDNP government, it was possible to launch in autumn 2014 an energy efficiency programme with public support to exchange outdated, energy-intensive tools, and thus modern, energy-saving machines in Hungarian households. So far, the program "Home Gay" has enabled the energy upgrade of over 300 thousand households with support of HUF 36 billion. The actions of the Home Gay Programme launched in 2014 aimed at improving the energy efficiency of residential buildings and households, as well as the deployment of renewable energy systems. The programme is also part of Hungary's national climate change strategy, thus serving environmental objectives. The total programme could achieve annual energy savings of 300 million kilowatt hours per year for the general public and a reduction of 130 thousand tonnes of CO2 emissions per year. Dear Secretary of State, A new tender has recently been launched. Under the latest sub-programme, you can apply for the regulation and modernisation of the heating of apartments in district heating buildings. In Hungary, there are still a significant number of apartments with district heating, where heating cannot be individually controlled, which is one of the most wasteful solutions. I think that the common goal of all of us is to be able to help families as widely as possible, in addition to the fact that the investment can result in a further reduction of the costs for thousands of families. Dear Secretary of State, In connection with the above, I respectfully ask how the Secretary of State appreciates the results of the 'Home Gay' programme so far. Who and under what conditions can apply for the current aid scheme? What kind of public energy saving programme is expected in the future? I look forward to the Secretary of State's reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-01-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer on behalf of the government from Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-07-01-81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The warm home program you mentioned is one of the good examples that the government has been inevitably involved in the fight against climate change in a series of principles that determine governance for many years. Since 2010, we have taken a large number of measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, increase the share of energy from renewable sources and increase energy efficiency. It is therefore not a question for us to fulfil our commitments for 2020. At the same time, the government will always implement the necessary steps in such a way that it is not offensive and detrimental to Hungarian citizens, but on the contrary: it will bring them benefits and reliefs that are felt every day. The "Home Gay" program is an integral part of this government philosophy. Within the framework of the programme, 11 sub-programmes will be published by the first half of 2019 and two sub-programmes will be re-opened, providing support to improve the energy efficiency of residential buildings and households and to install renewable energy systems with a total value of HUF 36 billion. The energy savings thus achieved were equivalent to the annual electricity consumption of 100,000 Hungarian households of average size and resulted in an annual cost savings of more than HUF 10 billion for families participating in the programme. The new sub-programme referred to by the Member may bring about a positive change and ease in the situation of those living in apartments with uncontrolled district heating. This is not modern at all and because of uncontrollableness, in many cases the heating mode is highly wasteful in the Hungarian cities today, affecting some 200,000 apartments. For the benefit of families living in such dwellings, the Ministry of Innovation and Technology announced on June 17, 2019 an application to support the spread of the Smart Cost Sharing and the replacement of radiators under the "Hot Home" programme. The display offers the possibility of modernising the existing heating system for district heating apartments and housing cooperatives. The primary objective of the tender is to install so-called smart cost-sharing devices on radiators. With the help of new measuring devices, the owners of the apartments can keep track of their heat consumption data without monthly dictation, making it possible for them to plan the expected amount of overhead costs. The tender may be submitted electronically on 24 September 2019 from 10 a.m. to the tender portal set up for that purpose. The sub-programme has a budget of HUF 2 billion, and the grant rate can be up to 50 percent of the eligible gross cost, i.e. up to half of the investment can be covered by state aid. The maximum amount of aid per application can be up to HUF 75 million, or it can reach HUF 350 thousand per apartment. EU credit programmes previously announced can also be used to ensure costs. Honourable Congressman, At the same time as reducing household energy consumption and household overhead costs, a series of policy programmes will continue to increase energy efficiency. During the period ahead, calls for proposals are expected to be launched to enable complex energy efficiency renovations for both family houses and condominiums, in combination with non-refundable support, to help create sustainable, low-reservation homes. In view of this, I ask for my answer to be accepted. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-01-82	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Mr László Földi to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go, Congressman. [[15.40]]
u2019-07-01-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I accept Mr Secretary of State's reply. I should also like to inform my fellow Members of the great success they had at the time, after 2014, in family houses, for example, in changing windows or changing washing machines, or in the exchange of similar tools. It was a particularly good thing at the time that when 2 billion forints were given for the exchange of large machines, and it was not enough, there was a demand of 5 billion, the government gave that extra 3 billion for this task. I also put on this interpellation because there are three cities in my constituency where there are tenements built 30-40-50 years ago, and there are very outdated heating systems. I hope that you will be able to help there with this proposal. Thank you again for your reply, Mr Secretary of State, and I accept. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-01-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. It is 15:40 a.m., ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the interpellations. It is now possible for me to address Mr Zsolt Gréczy's application for order of business. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-07-01-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just wanted to say that I object to the fact that I was denied the opportunity to respond. I don't think the Speaker has the right or the opportunity to take the floor from me. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I am entitled to the opportunity to respond and, moreover, to vote in favour of this House without giving an opinion on whether or not to accept the State Secretary's reply. It was decided by the Speaker of the House, which I also think is against house rules. And I will sue Congressman Soltes for his sentences concerning me, and he will pay a lot of money for it. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for the DK benches.]]
u2019-07-01-86	Thank you. I would like to inform Congressman that you should read the Parliamentary Act and the House Rule. And I'll inform you that Speaker of the House... [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: The Speaker can't answer for the congressman!]] Congresswoman, I'm not answering to you, but if necessary, I will answer to you. The Parliamentary Act 49. § (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Speaker of the House. If you do not agree, you can go to the Judicial Committee. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That's not the problem! The Speaker said something the congressman didn't say. You can't do that.]] What's your problem, Congresswoman? [[There's an uproar in the opposition benches. For signal:]] Dear, dear notary, you're not sitting here arguing with me. [[Zsolt Gréczy: How can you vote for the House if I did not say I would accept it or not?]] Congressman, I have told you that you can turn to the Judicial Committee as a committee responsible for the order of business. Dear Parliament, It's time for a decision. Please check that your card has been properly placed in the voting machine. After the vote, we will continue with the hour of immediate questioning. It follows that the decision on the personal proposal for the election of members and officials of the ad hoc committee to appoint members of the Media Council of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority will be taken. S/6688 put forward by the President You can find out more about the website. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the contents of the personal proposal. Here you go, notary.
u2019-07-01-87	Dear Parliament, , 1. On the basis of points 4 and 5 of the parliamentary decision establishing an ad hoc committee to appoint members of the Media Council of the National Media and Infocommunication Authority, the National Assembly elects the officials and members of the ad hoc committee: János Halász, Fidesz; members László Szászfalvi, KDNP; dr. Brenner Koloman, Jobbik; dr. Zita Gurmai, MSZP; Zsolt Gréczy, DK; dr. László Keresztes, Lóránt, LMP; Kocsis-Cake Olivio, Dialogue. 2. This Decision is addressed to Mth. It shall enter into force on the day of its entry into force. Budapest, 1 July 2019, László Kövér
u2019-07-01-88	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to accept S/668. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the personal proposal with 147 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, That concludes the decisions. I would ask my fellow Members, who leave the Chamber in order to deal with their urgent official affairs, to do so as quickly and as quietly as possible so that we can continue our meeting. [[Several Members are leaving the Chamber. It's a short break.]] Dear House, It's 3:46 p.m., immediate questioning time. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Péter Jakab, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How long does the Government take advantage of people's patience? It's an address. Mr President, Mr President, Prime Minister has appointed Minister István Nagy to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask you to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Prime Minister for the answer personally.
u2019-07-01-89	I don't accept it. Thank you very much.
u2019-07-01-90	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you and this House that the Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Congressman Attila Mesterházy, representative of the MSZP, immediately... [[György Szilágyi: Mr President, why? For signal:]] I'm sorry. Excuse me. I will turn to Congressman Ádám Mirkóczki first. Dear Parliament, Member Ádám Mirkóczki, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the President of the National Bank of Hungary an immediate question:. Everyone is equal, but are there more equals? It's an address. Congressman Adam Mirkóczki has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-91	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, The case of the NHB bank is known to everyone. I do not want to impose on the professional background and other events, but rather on the situation of the injured and the lack of good feeling and political consequences. As Chairman of the MNB, you, as the person who is the principal supervisor and responsible for the background and events of the commercial banks, find it all right that from a commercial bank that enjoys amazing privileges and subsidies from the Hungarian National Bank, for example, your relatives, as well as your close relatives, according to the press reports, i.e. your children in the days prior to the bank's fall, what the consequences of the indulging, professionalism, or any other case, I would not like to judge this, but the other one is quite eroded by their values. This in itself, despite the fact that the BRFK's rejection of the investigation is not as a lawyer, but as a simple layman who can read and interpret words, exhausts the title of insider trading in Btk. I think you have a responsibility and a job to do here. [[15.50]] Avoiding any personalities, do you think it's okay that in such a case, people who are connected to you and who belong to your family take advantage of information that will help them to save their assets, while others lose their savings by mass? [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Do you wish and have taken any action within the MNB as to who issued this information, and if so, where is this procedure? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-07-01-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to President György Matolcsy, whom I respectfully welcome to the House. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2019-07-01-93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The Growth Credit Bank is a player of less than 1 per cent of the financial system, but here you ask, not by asking quantitative questions, but by asking qualitative questions, that any irregularities have occurred in the case of a small bank. Once again, there is no threat in any way from this or another small bank or a third to the liquidity problem of the entire Hungarian financial system, but indeed, this is an important issue, I agree with you. Have there been any irregularities? In all cases, the Hungarian National Bank, including the Hungarian National Banking Department with a supervisory licence, checks and considers the safety of the financial consumer to be the most important. Therefore, already in 2016, in August 2016, the National Bank of Hungary concluded that significant financial risks would arise in the Bank of Growth. We saw liquidity risks, identified the size and compositional capital problems needed to cover the risks, and drew the bank's attention to their management. Then, in August 2018, we publicly communicated that there was a problem with the Growth Credit Bank. There's been a problem, a problem, a liquidity problem, a liquidity situation. Everybody knew that, everybody knew that. The fact that anyone carries out any financial operation with any Hungarian commercial bank is not being examined by the Hungarian National Bank because they cannot investigate it. Neither the withdrawal of the bank deposit nor the cancellation of the bank's account. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-07-01-94	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll ask Congressman Adam Mirkóczki for a one-minute rejoinder, please.
u2019-07-01-95	Thank you very much. Mr President, My question mainly concerned that it was true that one or more of the MNB's members or co-workers provided information, including information to your family members, that there was a problem with NHB, and that you should withdraw your money as soon as possible. And if that happened, you examined it, because you are the head of the MNB, you have examined it, and what steps have been taken to expose that employee and, if necessary, to prosecute him. And the reason why this is terrible is because when foreign exchange credentials protest and protest outside the walls of the House, for whom neither the MNB, the Hungarian government, nor any other body has been able to help, we see for many of them now, in the case of Quaestor, and now in the case of NHB bank, that there are more equals who are above the law, who have information that they can always save their own values. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-07-01-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. President. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Once again, and the same answer: In August 2018, for everyone, for all financial customers, including all customers of the Growth Credit Bank, the Hungarian National Bank made it clear in a statement that there was a problem, there were liquidity problems at the Growth Credit Bank. Anyone who subsequently took his account or deposited money or exported money acted under his own responsibility. The Hungarian National Bank did not come up with any information indicating an exceptional treatment. Once again, public data, public communication indicated the liquidity problem of the Growth Credit Bank. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-07-01-98	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I apologize to Congressman Attila Mesterházy for calling you earlier, because it's coming now. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question. It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-07-01-99	Thank you for the opportunity. Dear House, Mr President, A few months ago, your vice-president here in this House told me that there is no foreign exchange credit problem in Hungary, and then a few weeks ago, when I asked you, I literally quote, he told me that he didn't even understand why my forehead is pearling for foreign exchange lenders. Now let's not start a debate about how much this looks down on people who really are still in this trap, but then, since these sentences have been said, the European Court of Justice has decided because of the foreign exchange credential problem, the Curia has decided, and you have come up with ideas on how to deal with this foreign exchange credential problem. Then we have finally reached a point after several months, Mr President, that there is one thing we agree on: that there is a foreign exchange credit problem in Hungary that needs to be dealt with. And there's an idea for you. It is said that the Hungarian families who are trapped in a credit trap should take up another loan. That's one of their suggestions. By giving birth to a child, let's say, even if it's men, or if it's women over 50, or if they're involved in a government program they've already planned. So it seems that these solutions are not the best solutions, but it is positive in any way that they even started looking for this. If I were you, I'd say it's a bluff in this form. But there is a solution, Mr President, and it would be good to go in this direction, since 60 families are evicted each week. So if I were finally to help deal with the real problem, i.e. the issue of exchange rate risk, then they would certainly provide real help to the Hungarian families, and then it could be said that you are actually carrying out the task that is described in the law, the Statute: namely, that you must not protect banks against consumers, against Hungarian families, but vice versa, and that is what I would encourage Mr President to do. Thank you.
u2019-07-01-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to President György Matolcsy for the answer. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2019-07-01-101	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I confirm the statement of the vice-president of the Hungarian National Bank: the domestic foreign exchange credit problem in Hungary ended at the end of 2014. Prior to this, in 2005-2010, households and families took out foreign exchange loans of total value of HUF 5500 billion in total, 91 percent of which were Swiss franck loans. The government almost halved this currency and Swiss franc loan stock by the end of 2014, but by the end of 2014, there were still 621 thousand loan contracts prior to the forinting. This was a burden for Hungarian families, which they could not bear at the end of 2014 either, but in particular they would not have endured at the beginning of 2015, when the Swiss franc was released, and the Swiss franc and euro exchange rate deteriorated from Hungarian households. This was handled by the government, the Hungarian National Bank, the Curia, the Constitutional Court and a number of other organizations with a joint action called forinting. We returned 1,000 billion forints to the families for 1,000 billion forints to the banks. So much for the support of the Hungarian National Bank. In addition to the country, and if the country requires forintification, the Hungarian National Bank has helped this process by EUR 9 billion. You may accidentally confuse the Curia's decision. The Curia examines what can be done in the case of contracts where the issue of unfair determination of the exchange rate arises. This does not affect the forinting. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-07-01-102	Thank you very much. Congressman Attila Mesterházy is entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-103	Look, Mr. President, I'm used to asking questions about foreign exchange credit issues and you guys answering them, and I'm always wrong, and I always say stupid things. However, if there is no foreign exchange credential problem in Hungary, as you just said here, then why the hell did you come up with proposals? So if there is no such problem, why does the Hungarian National Bank have to come up with new ideas, or why does the Mansion or the government have to come up with new ideas? [[16.00]] Please, the problem in Hungary is that they may have forinted, but at a rate that people cannot pay. And they may have given so much to the Hungarian families, but they gave multiples of this, Mr. President, to the banks! And it is quite clear that the banks would have endured this loss, if we had looked at the last few years, then it is clear from this that the banks would have survived, but the Hungarian families would have died of what they were doing. So I am asking you for the many times, and I will, to convince the government that this is not fair, as is the case, and yes, to address the issue of exchange rate risk. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President.
u2019-07-01-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. President György Matolcsy is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Once again, you may accidentally confuse proposals to settle the situation of late debtors or non-paying debtors who have a HUF loan. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank makes such proposals, we make such proposals on an ongoing basis, because by deriving foreign currency loans from the household loan pool, late debt or non-payment is still present in HUF loans. For over 90,000 families. [[Dr. László Varga: A million and a half, never mind.]] [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Dr. Winner Vinnai in the notary seat.]] This is precisely why we make this proposal in a targeted way, so that each social group, which has previously, let's say, been framed by foreign exchange lending, but already has a HUF credit, is constantly improving their position. I think that's what the Curia's investigation is all about, by the way. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-01-106	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Member Imre László, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question: Honourable Congressman, Minister has appointed Mr Péter Cseresnyés Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. [[Dr. Imre László nods.]] Thank you very much for your meta-communication to indicate your acceptance of the responding. Dear House, Congressman Imre László has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, If there are many midwives lost the illustration of the child's saying in a textbook, it is Etele Square in New Buda, which is his own saber, the biblical tohuvabohu. Here is Kelenföldi Railway Station with the 150-year-old renovated monument station building. The MÁV will evacuate this now, and no one will know of any further fate. This is Metro 4 terminal, which is the capital city and the bus station, which, on the other hand, is under the control of the state. Here the new terminal of tram 1 was established, but elsewhere than on the opposite side of the square with trams 19 and 49. The BKK's attempt to do so was frustrated by the district government, because it would have made people in the area uncomfortable. Finally, this is Bus 7's final destination, which has now lost its function because of the route modification of the flight. The district municipality would turn the area into a public area for pedestrian use, with a significant green area, but since the square is the capital's property, it cannot decide on this. And if that wasn't enough: this is where the South Buda super-hospital was imagined earlier, which was not a bad plan in so far as access to public transport would have been solved at least, but since then the facility has been designed for the Dobogó because of a highly estate-suspicious decision. There was also the establishment of a handball hall, but at this moment there is a supermall being built in the area. Tohuvabohu, mentioned above, may the Lord be the light! He ended it with words. I ask Mr. Secretary of State who will shed light on Etele Square?
u2019-07-01-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary Peter Cseresnyés. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-07-01-109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, For the sake of clarity, let's see: 53 billion forints, that's what the capital leadership led by Balliberal Gábor Demszky had accumulated at BKV Zrt. before 2010, and what we, the civilian government, consolidated. Two: more than 217 billion forints, this was the amount of credit accumulated without any meaningful improvements, which the Orbán government had to consolidate because of its leadership supported by Ferenc Gyurcsány Budapest. About HUF 300 billion was the sum of the outstanding amounts in which the Hungarian State Railways were forced into the slow-bleeding policy of the Balliberal governments before 2010. From here we had to restore the Hungarian railway after 2010. These dazzling sums show how much Budapest, the fate of the capital's social transport, was interested in the left-wing governing parties and their mayor before 2010. In the same way that Etele Square and Kelenföldi Railway Station really have questions about the situation and state of the city, I suggest that you first ask your fellow parties why they have left the capital city's public areas and transport to the extremes, why they have taken significant funds from the municipalities, while at the same time installing new tasks. On the other hand, since 2010, the government and the capital have made more than 700 billion HUF of investment in Budapest in the field of transport development alone. Even the flagship project of the left-wing city leadership, subway 4, had to be completed by the civilian government after you or your predecessors had to carry out this investment instead of doing the job. Honourable Congressman, Of course, in answer to your question, I would also like to mention a few words about Kelenföld in one minute. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-01-110	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. It's a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-111	Thank you very much. As usual, he's excellent at bullshit, but he's an "A" in personality. I know that the main concern of the wallet is the execution of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, the plowing up of the place of Hungarian science and the introduction of salt, the organisation of the extraction of EU funds for research purposes; such small-scale cases involving only a few hundred thousand people are not to be dealt with. However, the Commissioners for Government, Prime Minister and Ministers could now have a smaller battalion, even a government commissioner for cycling and the development and promotion of active recreation. What is the obstacle to coordinating the problems of Etele tér, at least one ministerial commissioner to coordinate the interests and ideas of stakeholders? He could be emancipated as much as the others, but that would make sense.
u2019-07-01-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-113	Thank you very much. It seems to me that this speech was only good for you to be able to say the usual DK splash or a set of criticisms, and you didn't really want to talk about Kelenföld, but to repeat those words mantra-likely, which have been said over the past period. But let's be clear: MTA and Hungarian scientific work, innovation and development will be increased by HUF 32 billion from 2020. What is this, if not attention to science, development, innovation? But back to Kelenföld, this area is going through a very serious development. The area's transport system will be developed beyond the completion of Metro 4 by measures such as tram 1 and tram 1 extension, renewal of green surfaces on Etele Road and the construction of a cycling band or the reorganization of agglomeration bus transport in South Buda. MÁV Zrt. is currently examining the question of the exploitation of Kelenföld Railway Station. There is also a government decision on the new Danube bridge and the development of a southern circular railway, which reduces car traffic. So Kelenföld is once again a vital part of Budapest as a result of these developments. There are billions of HUF spent on development in this area. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-01-114	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Lóránt László Keresztes, Head of the LMP Group, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Why does the government not want to stop migration? .. Your Honour, Chief of Staff.. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister István Nagy as a candidate for an urgent public mission. I respectfully ask, you accept the response, or you ask the Prime Minister personally for an answer. [[16.10]]
u2019-07-01-115	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll wait for Prime Minister to answer.
u2019-07-01-116	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you and this House that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear House, Congresswoman Márta Demeter, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the President of the National Bank of Hungary an immediate question: why do banks like NER fall short? It's an address. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-07-01-117	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, On 18 December last year at NHB Bank, the MNB imposed a restriction on the payment of deposits. The original 30-day deadline was then extended twice and the bank's operating licence was revoked and the winding-up was ordered. In total, HUF 12.5 billion of deposits were withdrawn from NHB last November and December, and additional payments were initiated. In response, the National Bank imposed restrictions. My questions to Mr. President. How can financial companies with strong government ties go bankrupt, while the financial supervision system is rather weak at a time when it is essentially formal, only when it comes to winding up? Here I would like to remind you of the closure of Széchenyi Bank in 2014, the Quaestor case in 2015, the bankruptcy of the Buda-Cash Broker House in 2015. The case of NHB Bank also expands this list here in 2019, and interestingly, somehow, the staff has always shown very large overlaps with these financial institutions. My question is why people who use budgetary resources can park money in NER institutions. Thus lost 3.8 billion forints of trading houses, health savings for law enforcement and defence, 7 billion forints for the state-owned Széchenyi Capital Fund in the Treasury's asset management. My third question is, do you, as the head of the financial supervisory body, suggest that public money should not be traded? What proposal does it make so that public money cannot be parked in institutions such as NHB? As a financial supervisory body, answer why banks that are dear to NER fall in line. I'd like to ask you if you're saying that this financial institution accounted for only 1 percent of the market, so if it's only 1 percent, then the money can be disposed of? My question is, too, you mentioned that in 2016 a number of communications drew attention to the situation. I ask you: how can budgetary bodies keep money, how can they keep public money in such financial institutions? Thank you. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2019-07-01-118	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to President György Matolcsy. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-119	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Allow me to start immediately by saying, as a good news, that banks in Hungary are not failing, either large or medium or small banks, since the last such measure was four years before the liquidity problem of the Growth Credit Bank at the end of 2018, in March 2015, when the DRB banking group had to take similar measures to four small banks, that is to say, to initiate the withdrawal of the authorisation; before you mentioned it, the Széchenyi Commercial Bank had to withdraw its licence. It's not a show. In all cases, they are small banks. Besides, from the point of view of the Hungarian National Bank, especially from the point of view of supervisory activity, the term NER is incomprehensible, since the Hungarian National Bank is always solely concerned with the safety of financial customers and therefore measures on an equal footing. A bank that meets the requirements of financial security at the moment when the investigation is carried out or before the investigation, in which case the Hungarian National Bank may not withdraw its authorisation from a supervisory and prudential point of view. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As you mention, already in 2016, the Magyar Nemzeti Bank drew the attention of the owner and management of the Growth Credit Bank to the fact that the bank is not operating in a sustainable manner in terms of the structure of the deposits, in terms of own funds and capital adequacy. Then we confirmed this on August 28, 2018. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-07-01-120	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Márta Demeter. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-121	Mr. President. I have to say, you've been shown again, unfortunately, and you haven't answered my questions in substance. My question was that you were proposing that state money should not be held in such financial institutions. I would have liked to have had a meaningful answer. Clearly, it is very unpleasant for you to see these NER financial institutions fall into line. And I would like to draw attention to the fact that financial supervision is not a family business, even if there is a very large number of relatives, as you have explained in a previous reply. So the banks that are dear to NER are falling apart, hundreds of billions are missing, and the state is returning to making taxpayers finance these losses. That's what's untenable and outrageous, and it's not just the horse's foot hanging out, it's the whole horse out there. Your job is to answer the questions, so why do the banks that are dear to NER fall in line, how can this happen? And the most important question is, why are they making taxpayers pay for these losses? [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties. Intruder from Jobbik's benches: That's right!]]
u2019-07-01-122	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to President György Matolcsy for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-123	Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and So banks don't go down. The financial system, including the National Bank of Hungary and the NER-like term for supervision, cannot be interpreted. If it could be understood, the question would be why the Hungarian National Bank lets a political group or group of players that are important to the state fall for. We measure with equal standards. Those who comply with liquidity and other requirements are, of course, not affected by their operating license. [[Márta Demeter: Any suggestions?]] [[Márta Demeter: Any suggestions?]] The Hungarian National Bank is not responsible for overseeing the management of public funds and public funds. (Márta Demeter: Make suggestions?) It's not our job, which is why I'm not making such a suggestion. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-07-01-124	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Congressman Sándor Burány, the representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: what is going on? It's an address. Prime Minister has appointed Minister István Nagy to respond to an urgent public task. [[For signal:]] I see that Congressman Sándor Burány indicates that he accepts the person who is responding. Congressman Sándor Burány has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Recently, when I saw Lurch the Butcher playing air guitar at a wedding, I thought they'd stop here, so they'd be satisfied and stop increasing my experience of this type. The only time I was scared was when Lawrence Ripper cried out: "The bride is for sale!" To be honest, I was afraid that he would buy it on the spot, allowing his everyday habits, but fortunately that didn't happen. [[Demercation from the benches of opposition parties.]] But as for the genre of air guitar, it seems that you were able to twist one on this thing, because recently during the break of several concerts at the VOLT Festival, there was only one video play. The inexperienced foreigners must have thought there was a hipster rapper on the projector. Of course, the Hungarians knew that this was Viktor Orbán. They played an old speech for young people, although no one there asked for it. Obviously, one of the organizers thought that it was best for the young people to join Viktor Orbán in private numbers these days. Honestly, it takes a very strong stomach. No wonder if someone hadn't had such a strong stomach, then this speech also contributed to the event of that day's solid one-vomit party. [[Demercation from the benches of opposition parties.]] But from what I hear, they're still able to increase that: they're taking the production to the Balaton Sound, even though no one asked for it. This kind of personal cult, this spread of solo licking not only at festivals, but beyond them is stomach-stricken, Minister. So when are you even willing to put a stop to this? When do you think that's enough? Or where else do you want to develop this? Will Viktor Orbán's karaoke tournaments be like this, and will they try their luck in other genres like this? And even in history, where else can they sink to? Do you really think it all started with Viktor Orbán? [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2019-07-01-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister István Nagy. Here you go, Minister.
u2019-07-01-127	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Congressman, It is fortunate that air guitar is not one of the agendas of the Hungarian Parliament, but I would like to tell you that Sopron is an iconic place for the change of the Hungarian system. [[16.20]] There were events there 30 years ago that were life-changing for our entire country. I think it's undisputed. All that has happened there, that the Iron Curtain has been broken down, that freedom has become in Hungary, and the city of Sopron can be proud of that. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] In order for the organizers to decide on a 30-year anniversary at a festival, and you were absolutely right to say that one of the organizers decided to commemorate this anniversary, I think we have nothing to add here. Please accept my answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-01-128	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Sándor Burány. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-129	I understand that Sopron is an iconic venue for a change of regime, but how does Balaton Sound come here? Unless East German tourists met their relatives in Hungary. I don't see any other reason. And by the way, why don't you take him to a tent? And anyone who cares can study the history of the change of regime. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches, including Dr. Bence Rétvári: Do you want to hide the change of regime? Does it hurt that much?]] Why do you have to broadcast this on the main stage as a commercial, put it in the face of young people? While these young people do not require it at all. Speaking of Sopron, Minister for Foreign Affairs Gyula Horn cut through the Iron Curtain symbolically, if I recall correctly, not Viktor Orbán. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Was Gyula Horn a system changer? That's news to me.]] By the way, the change of regime had quite a number of actors, from Prime Minister József Antall to Péter Tölgyessy I could list many people, it doesn't take a minute, but even the agreement on the Soviet withdrawal was not signed by Viktor Orbán, but also by Gyula Horn. So, if you're so in love with Viktor Orbán, and you're so falsifying the past, all I have left is one question: but where is László Dózsa of a great nature? [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] Please respond.
u2019-07-01-130	Thank you very much, Congressman. One-minute rejoinder, Minister Stephen Nagy has the floor. Here you go, Minister.
u2019-07-01-131	Mr President, Dear House, My dear fellow Member, You're addressing your questions to the wrong place. [[Lajos Korózs: We don't even understand what an agricultural minister is doing here among the respondents. The president's ringing the bell.]] Did we decide that? Did the government have any say in what happens at a private festival? [[Intercoms from the opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] Believe me, you're asking these questions in the wrong place. Ask these questions to those who organize that festival, they must be able to give you a more extensive, well-founded answer. I don't want to get involved in assumptions about what's gonna happen on Lake Balaton Sound because we don't know what's gonna happen yet. It also has its organizers, ask these questions in advance, and then you will receive the answers from the authorities. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-01-132	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Member László Böröcz, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: . What is the economic impact of the government's tax reduction policy? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public mission. I respectfully ask, do you accept the person who is responding, or do you ask the Minister for an answer? [[For signal:]] Thank you so much for accepting. Mr László Böröcz has the floor. Here you go. [[Sándor Szabó replaces the gullible Dezső in the notary seat.]]
u2019-07-01-133	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Before I begin, allow me to tell Congressman Burány before he leaves, that I believe that you and your comrades were hurt at the time and now that Viktor Orbán said that the Russians should go home. I'm sorry, Congressman. Pathetic! [[Crying from the ranks of MSZP, DK and Jobbik. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2019-07-01-134	Fellow Members!
u2019-07-01-135	With regard to next year's tax laws, Fidesz intends to continue its tax reduction policy in line with what has been done so far. It is important to note that the government's economic and tax policies contributed greatly to the Hungarian people's work, that the Hungarian economy expanded by 5.3 percent in the first quarter. Hungary's largest tax reduction and GDP-related tax burden in the European Union decreased from 39.3 per cent in 2016 to 38.4 per cent in 2017. Unfortunately, these positive indicators were not always typical of the Hungarian economy and Hungarian tax policy. Under the governance of Ferenc Gyurcsány, taxes on families, workers and entrepreneurs have also been repeatedly increased. By constantly increasing the tax burden, they destroyed the economy, made the lives of families difficult and reduced wages. Between 2002 and 2010, the basic rates in Hungary were changed several times each year, sometimes even within a year. As a result, the structures of taxes and contributions have been constantly reorganized and new taxes have been introduced. Ladies and gentlemen, Next year's tax law, the economic protection action plan, contains tax reduction plans on several points. Social contribution tax decreased by 2 percentage points, from 19.5 percent to 17.5 percent, from kiva, and from small enterprise tax by 1 percentage point, from 13 percent to 12 percent. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Otherwise, this affects more than 40,000 small entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs. In this regard, I would like to ask the State Secretary about the economic impact of the government's tax reduction policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-01-136	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai, for the answer. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-07-01-137	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, it is a good question of what the purpose of a tax law is, what it is for the government to do. In my opinion, it is to serve the government's economic policy. The government's economic policy is to ensure sustainable growth. It is very important that, in addition to reducing public burdens, a tax law provides adequate budgetary revenue, since the financing of public services is not the last aspect for a government. It is important that a tax system reduces the burden of living work, as this is how employers can involve more and more employees. It is important for a tax policy objective, a tax system, to reduce taxes on income, including taxes on personal income and corporate tax. I think that Hungary is an example of this, both in terms of reducing personal income tax but, above all, in terms of reducing corporate tax. It is important to reduce tax bureaucracy and to develop a system that whitens the economy and maximises revenue from turnover taxes. In this, Hungary has achieved outstanding results in recent years, with only 10 percent of the volume of taxation being close. It is also very important to have a tax system for a country that creates jobs and does not eliminate jobs. I believe that the Hungarian government has established such a tax system in Hungary in the last two cycles and with the laws before us. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-01-138	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman László Böröcz. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-07-01-139	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Obviously, in order for Hungarian people to manage and bring home as much money as possible in addition to their hard work, it is also necessary for the current Hungarian government to pursue economic and tax policies that help people in their activities. I believe that the Fidesz-KDNP government has been pursuing a systematic policy since 2010 and that it has tried to help economic operators both increase efficiency and increase wages by tax cuts. Unfortunately, it wasn't always like that. As we have just heard, between 2002 and 2010, hundreds of thousands of people, hundreds of thousands of families, in the period of the MSZP governments and liberal governments, suffered from the sac policy that DK and MSZP representatives were doing at that time. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-01-140	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-07-01-141	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, The tax system of the Gyurcsány government and the Fidesz government cannot be compared. During the Gyurcsány government, tax rates have increased and tax revenues have decreased compared to GDP, and during the Fidesz government, taxes have decreased slightly, to a greater extent, and tax rates have decreased, and tax revenues are increasing. [[16.30]] The European countries are also envious of us, which is why they do not attack Hungary because of its tax policy and economic policy. However, the system of family tax relief is also highlighted, since the tax system must also serve families. Through the system of family tax incentives, Hungary is also an example of how to do this. I think that this path is right, and the Hungarian government will continue on this path in terms of tax policy. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-07-01-142	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Csaba Gyüre, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: "How does the Government help to repair the damage caused by the storm? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Minister Tibor Pogácsás has appointed Minister of State to respond to the urgent public task. I respectfully ask, accept the response... [[On Dr. Csaba Gyüre's signal:]] I'm not gonna say any more of my lines. Congressman Csaba Gyüre has the floor because he has accepted the person of the responder. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-143	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, on June 27, a great storm raged, later called the storm of the century. When it started, they didn't know how much damage this was gonna do to the county. This started from the area of Zahony, through Kisvárda the region of Gemzse, Vásárosnamény, Ajak, Mátészalka, Jármi, Kosord was the best. What was this storm doing? Crashing rooftops, falling centuries-old trees, rooted trees, fallen fences, fallen electricity columns, fallen high-voltage power lines, huge damage in cemeteries, collapsed crosses, broken graves, broken, fallen crosses in front of churches, terrifying damage in agriculture, fallen crops, fallen orchards, rows of planted trees that were twisted by the storm. It's just a pity that the 70-80-year-olds said they'd never seen anything like it in their lives. Here, I would like to thank the workers of disaster management, who, altruistically, rushed to the scene immediately and tried to minimize the damage that had been done to the people who lived there. These people have been trying to get everywhere. Here, I would also like to thank those who have come from a distance, from across the border, from Felvidék, Transylvania, Transcarpathia and the South, who have been involved in damage control in order to ensure that these houses are even covered, so that people can go to bed. I ask the Honourable Secretary of State how the government is helping to repair the damage caused by the storm in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-07-01-144	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-07-01-145	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, last week, after 12:00 p.m. on June 27, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén, Hajdú-Bihar and Szabolcs-Szatmár counties, there was an extraordinary weather phenomenon, accompanied by an enormous amount of precipitation and wind. Following or during the weather event, 1472 reports were received in disaster management, 83 vehicles were transported by professionals and voluntary units, 326 persons directly involved in damage relief and rescue, and, as Mr.O. said, professionals and volunteers from neighbouring counties, and volunteers from neighbouring countries, too. The rescue was made difficult by the fact that fallen trees also blocked the roads and caused a particular problem, that these fallen trees had shut down the power supply at 59 500 consumer places, and in 32 settlements the base stations of mobile phones were disabled. Thank you for the service providers and the Transcendental Power Network Zrt. employees, who have tried to do everything in their power to restore the service itself. In the county of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg, 2414 buildings were damaged in 80 settlements, of which 70 public institutions, 31 residential buildings became uninhabitable, 68 people had to be accommodated in relatives and 15 main municipal homes and primary school gymnasiums. The damage assessment has begun. I'll pick it up in a minute. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-07-01-146	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Csaba Gyure. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-147	Dear Secretary of State, Allow me to make three small criticisms, which I think I would like to say in a constructive way, not as a criticism, but I must say what the locals and mayors have noted in this regard. For about two days, they felt that the damage control work had not been coordinated. So everyone is trying to solve it individually, where they are, but the activity there did not seem to be coordinated. This should therefore be given a little more attention in the future. They also knew whether such a storm would come, whether the meteorological institute had indicated it, and you, for example, knew about it or the disaster management, and why you had not told local authorities, as it had done before. In fact, the locals said that they would have liked it when they were in the worst damage or without a roof if either the Minister or the Prime Minister had shown up on the spot. That would have been good for the local population. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-07-01-148	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder also belongs to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-149	Thank you very much. What I don't know is that the Meteorological Service was able to estimate how big the storm had become, because at 12:00 a.m. it was announced that a storm of this magnitude was approaching. Disaster control has done its job and is doing it now. The survey is ongoing, the assessment of damage to municipal property and state property. It is possible to report force majeure damages, we try to assess force majeure damage out of order, and in any case we strive to ensure that schools and kindergartens can be fully used for the start of the education period, i.e. the start of the school in September. Also, the damage caused by private property is being assessed and discussed so that insurance companies can pay these damages as quickly as possible and help citizens. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-07-01-150	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member János Harghitai, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. What results were awarded the Serviced Municipality Award in recognition of? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The Minister appointed Mr. Tibor Pogácsás State Secretary to respond to the urgent public mission. [[On Dr. János Harghitai's mark:]] Thank you very much for indicating to me that you have accepted the person who is responding. It is therefore up to Congressman János Harghitai. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. Days ago, I noticed that the two settlements of my constituency, Majs and Véménd also received the Service Municipality Award. I am well aware of the activities of these municipalities. By the way, both settlements are run by Lady Mayor. I've been following up on your successful municipal work. Obviously, as a former mayor and Member of Parliament, I am also interested in the conditions surrounding the municipalities. When I noticed this award, I found that this award was awarded by the government as part of a priority project financed by HUF 1.2 billion. This has been announced within the Széchenyi 2020 programme. Obviously, we all know and appreciate the operation of the municipalities, that the municipal system is the cornerstone of democratic Hungary. This is what the KDNP fraction has thought since the inauguration. We are well aware that people's well-being is largely determined by the conditions under which a local government can operate, and we are all interested in the effective functioning of local authorities, because this is how settlements develop and the country evolves. That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State what is the purpose of giving this recognition directly. In other words, what was the direct background of the award? My third question is what results will be awarded to the Serviced Municipality Award as a recognition. I look forward to the Secretary of State's reply. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[16.40]]
u2019-07-01-152	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-07-01-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, The recognition and recognition of the municipal system comes from the citizens. In the Hungarian political system, it is the local government system that receives the highest grade based on the consultation of voters, when people ask the different participants and actors of the political system about trust, about reliability. Of course, it is also a fact that the task of the municipal system is not only to finance institutions, but not only to carry out budgetary tasks, but it is for the municipalities to organise the community, to use the assets in the settlements that citizens enjoy and to serve citizens and to create really habitable and livable settlements. In the framework of the Ministry of the Interior, there is a longer and more breathtaking work involving scientific researchers and professionals, during which the development of municipalities, the task solving of municipalities, and the responsiveness of local authorities are being investigated with absolute party policy considerations over the period since the regime change. It is very interesting in the coming period how the municipalities, the local government, can respond to the challenges, since there is no doubt a rivalry between the settlements, a kind of competition during which these statements are true regardless of the settlement size of the more successful settlements, the better municipality-led settlements, so the more successful municipalities are able to maintain their population, while the less successful municipalities have a great challenge of remaining habitable and attractive. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The award serves to reward the settlements who lead in this. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-07-01-154	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder is the word of Congressman János Harghitai. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-07-01-155	Thank you, Mr Secretary, for your answer. An important change in the life of the municipalities was the amendment of the law when we removed the tasks of the state from the duties of the municipalities, the state itself carries out these functions. I am thinking of the scope of health services: hospitals, primary school education; in other words, everything that is a state task and unduly burdened local governments. Since the state itself has done so, the municipalities have been better able to meet the tasks which affect only the population of their own municipalities, the organisation of various services. What you mentioned was community organisation; that's how a small settlement worked yesterday. For a reason, two smaller settlements were awarded here as well. I recommend this direction, this thinking only to encourage the government, and I hope that the recognition of this type of municipal work will continue in some form. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-07-01-156	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder also belongs to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-07-01-157	Thank you very much. Yes, the program continues. This programme is part of a programme to monitor the development of the local government, under which the development and innovations of the local authorities are being analysed, and these innovations and developments are being made available to the Hungarian authorities. My colleagues regularly organize meetings and conferences where smaller or larger settlements report on the success of a given settlement development or group development and can deliver ideas to other municipalities. Indeed, this year 20 applications were awarded by the Ministry of the Interior. This year we had to apply for the services, and indeed smaller or larger settlements and cities with county rights were awarded. Thank you very much.
u2019-07-01-158	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:, Let us see clearly in the case of EFOP in Békés county. It's an address. Honourable Congressman, The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. [[Lajos Korózs nodds.]] I thank you for your nodding to accept your response. You have the floor, please.
u2019-07-01-159	Thank you for the opportunity. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Orosháza district seat, involved in two EFOP applications. In one, Orosháza's consortium led by Tótkomlós runs an EFOP competition and in another he is a Tótkomlós gestor, and Orosháza is the consortium member. Both applications were issued with HUF 485 million. So they manage nearly HUF 1 billion in this project. Both bodies of representatives unanimously voted to participate, but at the same time the people living there and the representatives of local governments complain that they are not informed about how this project stands. At the same time, I must mention that the persons associated with György Simonka, who has been deprived of his or her right to immunity by the Attorney General, are very actively involved in various programmes. This is Anna Krisztován and György Simonka, who is currently listed as a security guard, who almost only conduct blood pressure measurements and blood glucose measurements with children on weekdays, without parental escorts. So it's most likely a fictitious project. At the same time, it is a cause for concern that Ferenc Galló, who was a good friend of György Simonka's, relative and campaign manager, deputy mayor of Medgyesboding society, confirmed these concerns; he made a clear reference in social media to the fact that wonderful things would happen when the checks started. That is why I ask the Secretary of State to suspend the two EFOP applications in the light of the above, and I also ask him to advance the audit, because if a person involved in it says that strange things are going to happen, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] then it is clear that the check must be carried out immediately. Please answer the questions raised.
u2019-07-01-160	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-07-01-161	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, If I follow your logic, and if there's something strange going on with someone, there's a need to be a checkup. [[Lajos Korózs: EFOP 1 billion!]] Tibor Szanyi has written strange things about the MSZP in recent days, and what millions are juggled by the MSZP presidency. So you're suggesting that an investigation should be initiated against the MSZP if we follow your logic? [[Noise, interruptions in opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] Honourable Congressman, You asked us to be clear about the EFOP case in Békés county. Honourable Congressman, In Békés county there are 300 EFOP applications worth HUF 32.5 billion. So, in general, a general answer can be given if this is not required, but, of course, in the case of specifics, you are always able to make use of the written question, which you can use in this case as well. However, I would like to tell you that in Hungary the European Union is one of the strictest, if not the strictest law on public procurement. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] This law... is now being laughed at by Congressman Bence Tordai... by the bureaucrats in Brussels who are inch by inch... [[Bence of Turdai interrupts. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2019-07-01-162	Congressman Bence of Turdai, when I give the floor.
u2019-07-01-163	...inch by inch, paragraph by paragraph, has been reviewed and approved in various notification procedures. So if you say that the Public Procurement Act opens the door to corruption, then your friends in Brussels are opening the door to corruption, because we had to look at this law point by point with the Commission, the members of the Brussels apparatus, according to the existing legislation. However, it is important that the total amount of EFOP, whether in Békés County or in other counties, has already reached the winners for health development, educational development, social development, catching-up projects, support for cultural institutions, projects of ecclesiastical and civil society organisations [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] programmes supporting sport and for family and youth policy purposes. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[16.50]]
u2019-07-01-164	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder will be given to Congressman Lajos Korózs. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-165	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary. You shouldn't be making jokes. You should be pressing charges. So when a deputy mayor involved in the preparation of a decision himself claims that there have been very serious abuses, that the checks will prove them, he claims that in this matter it is very serious, to say that hundreds of millions have been stolen, then this man is not speaking in the air, but on the basis of facts, because he was involved in this process. Ferenc Galló is not a psychic in that area, but a man in a very serious position. He himself in social media and the interview says that they influenced decision-makers, influenced the effectiveness of the decision. Plus, the people I mentioned were constantly showing up in the vicinity of György Simonka, these people were employed, but no one could find them anywhere. So it's very likely that this is fictitious employment. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So, this story is bleeding from a thousand wounds, Mr. Secretary, and I don't think this is over.
u2019-07-01-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder also belongs to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-167	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, You may, of course, follow such principles, honourable Member, but I ask you to look at your own affairs with the same standard in your own party. [[Mr Lajos Korózs: Now the EFOP, Mr Secretary of State.]] After all, their former vice-president, perhaps still their vice-president, may have been suspended, their own MEPs say that the leaders of their own party, I quote, view membership as literally stupid while handing out half-million-dollar salaries to themselves, and I could continue, continue, continue. [[Zsolt Gréczy: What does that have to do with anything?]] Honourable Congressman! If you have such expectations, [[The president's ringing the bell.]] states, in his own party too, that if he goes back, he should ask for the same procedures as he has now requested in relation to the EFOP. [[Lajos Korózs: EFOP 3.92! Bence of Turda: Fidesz people are stealing EU money!]] Honourable Congressman, You know that the system for monitoring regularity was set up in the EFOP after consultation with Brussels, and they approved the method and method of monitoring irregularities that are still in operation in Hungary, fully in accordance with the rules of the Brussels Commission. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] His apparatus agreed. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-01-168	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, That concludes the hour of immediate questioning. It's 16 hours and 52 minutes, and the questions will follow. Dear Parliament, Mr László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: Why can not enough vitamin K be prepared in advance for newborns and infants? It's an address. Congressman László György Lukács has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-169	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In recent weeks, more and more people have been concerned about the new drug shortage in Hungary. As is usually the case with childhood vaccinations, yet another lack of moods and motherhood shuddered. Now it is not a vaccine, but also oral vitamin K, known as Konakion as a lack of lightning speed. This is not only embarrassing and worrying for many parents, but it also indicates that in the year of family protection measures, the state with a view to and influence on medicines in circulation and their stock is not at the top of the situation. In view of the fact that the number of children to be born can be estimated on a monthly basis by means of state care providers carrying out prenatal care, and given the fact that the future vitamin K needs of the unborn children is also well established, it appears that the state is highly insane. It is also not difficult to estimate the number of children who will receive vitamin K for months in view of their breast feeding, and therefore the situation is incomprehensible, and that vitamin K has quickly become a deficiency in Hungary. What causes more problems, and it may hurt families the most, in addition to the worry, families would have to pay for the consumer price of just 400 forints or 390 forints, if they could obtain it at all, up to 6,000 forints. I think that, after the year of families, such a shortage of newborns and infants is unpleasant for the government, which is why, Honourable Secretary of State, I look forward to having an honoured response to this. Why is it that, in the year of the family protection operation, you have to worry about the lights of the family's eyes? Will you be responsible for this shortage, or will you be responsible for it? Is the government planning to put in place a safe supply of medicines so that no huge shortage of childhood vaccines or other life-threatening drugs for infants or children will occur in the future? I look forward to your honest and honored response. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2019-07-01-170	Thank you very much, Congressman. State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-07-01-171	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is important to clarify that neither the manufacturer nor the distributor of this preparation is the Hungarian State or any state company, and in this case the National Institute of Pharmacy and Food Health has jurisdiction, with a short cut OGYÉI. On the 23rd of V.V. and VI. It is available on the OGYÉI website, which can be read and answered by the press. on the 27th and other occasions, always informing everyone about the exact situation. There is a pharmaceutical authority in every country, and we have this OGYÉI, and this authority also carries out similar tasks elsewhere. Allow me to quote these communications, which you may know when you go to the authority's website. From abroad, 55,000 boxes of vitamin K were allowed for children and adults to import pharmaceutical wholesalers from OGYÉI, so the current shortage will be resolved according to their communication. So it is important that you initiated an out-of-court procedure the moment you were officially aware of the OGYÉI that there might be a problem with the care. The distributor identified manufacturing problems as a reason for lack of vitamin K for the period from 1 May to 31 October, and this is mainly due to reasons outside Hungary. Since no other vitamin K injections were currently registered in Hungary, OGYÉI, in consultation with the wholesaler, authorized the import of ten thousand items from abroad, the purchase of which is ongoing. About 4,000 cans of one type of injection for adults, and about 8,000 cans of the other type for children each month. The oral vaccine can be given to children several times at home up to six months of age, especially [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] it is important for exclusively breastfed children, since vitamin K is hardly excreted in breast milk. I will continue from here, as the next question concerns this too. Thank you very much.
u2019-07-01-172	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for the fact that the Secretary of State has already noted, because on the same subject, Member Sándor Szabó, representative of the MSZP, the notary of the National Assembly, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: Why does the Government not ensure that there is enough vitamin K that is needed for the development of children? It's an address. Congressman Sándor Szabó, notary, has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, We have not discussed this with my fellow Member Luke, but it seems that it is such an important issue, and many people in my constituency have approached me with this question, so, as my fellow Member Luke put it, a few things as a matter of fact. Indeed, I was approached with it, and it was also reported in the press that the vitamin K vaccine, which is essential for newborns, had almost disappeared from the pharmacies. We also saw it as news, I read it myself, and I appreciate the National Institute of Pharmacy and Food Health, that it dealt with the subject by the way, bought thousands of boxes, but it turned out that it ran out quickly. I also know that I am obviously aware that it is likely that the cause of the shortage should be sought primarily in the production difficulties. However, this cannot be an excuse, I think, for delay on an important issue which, by the way, endangers the health of our children. Neither financial nor any other technical reason is that I do not believe that you can explain to the government that holds you as a family-friendly government that, at such a delay, you have been able to deal with this issue only or at all in such a delay. So, continuing with the questions that my fellow Member Luke asked me, I have similar questions. Is it true that we have finally managed to obtain a larger amount of vaccine from the injection? Is the news really true that worried mothers can expect that there will be enough supplies? And I'd like to wait for the government to answer exactly what is preventing them from taking care of the ampoules in time, or the government is late in this. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of Dialogue and MSZP.]] [[17.00]]
u2019-07-01-174	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-07-01-175	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I repeat to you the important fact that the government does not have any direct competence in this. There is a pharmaceutical authority in every country within the European Union, these pharmaceutical authorities cooperate with each other, legal guarantees guaranteeing its independence, precisely because the pharmaceutical market, as you know, is a very sensitive market, it is very important for an independent authority to supervise its operation here, so it is therefore not a government competence in this area, but, as in every other country, it is an independent pharmaceutical authority that takes action. At the same time, the functioning of the pharmaceutical authority for all Hungarian families is positive in such a way that it has taken measures out of the question and took measures to ensure that this vitamin K is also available everywhere, as you have said it is very important for newborns, also for infants, so that they can give it to them several times in the family when the child needs it. I have already quoted the OGYÉI Communication of the 23rd of month V, so allow me to continue with the shorter VI. by the 25th of month, which reported that:, The new shipment of vitamin K has arrived at one of the largest pharmaceutical wholesalers. Pharmacy can order more supplies from here, so the correct amount of medicine, the active substance, remains available. In the past, OGYÉI has allowed five wholesalers to import a total of 58 200 boxes of vitamin K from abroad for several months in order to provide continuous care. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The other press responses were about the same content, everyone can find up-to-date information on the OGYÉI website, and we trust that the OGYÉI's extraordinary decision can ensure safe vitamin K supply for all families. Thank you very much.
u2019-07-01-176	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Imre László, representative of DK, would you like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: It's an address. Mr President, by answering this question, the Prime Minister has appointed Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of the Interior, who is competent on the subject, and at his request, we will hear the answer from Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-07-01-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary of State. Dear House, NewBuda has a residential district called Lake Town, where residential parks were established about a decade and a half ago. It was named after the quarter of four small artificial lakes, which were created by the protruding of the Törheti stream. They were designed to be the gems of the residential area, but the constructions were stopped, and the lakes were not cared for. During heavy rains, the stream carries a lot of deposits, which gradually muddled the lakes, and two of them can be regarded as swamps rather than lakes. Measurements have shown and this problem is basically, one of the very serious problems is that zinc, mercury, nitrogen compounds, phosphorus and phosphates in the water have grown far beyond the health limit and eutrophication has started due to the latter. The surface of the lakes is often covered evenly with algae called frogswipe, of course only where the waste of plastic, which is carried into it by water leaves a place. During the summer billions of mosquitoes hatch here torture the inhabitants, and because of the smell of penetrans flowing from the water, it is not possible to open a window in the warmest heat. Homeowners found themselves in a loft instead of the one they hoped for. The lakes are the property of the district municipality. In countless submissions, residents have urged the local authorities to settle the unsustainable situation without any result, so they have decided to go to court. This step can only be approved, but the situation is not simply unpleasant and uncomfortable, as it poses a serious public health and environmental risk because of what has been said. I ask the Secretary of State: why didn't the competent authority take action? [[The president's ringing the bell.]] in recent years, in order to eliminate these risks? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2019-07-01-178	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás.
u2019-07-01-179	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I understand that the municipal campaign is coming, and that is why the Member is asking this question to the government and not to his former party colleagues. After all, it was a long time ago that this investment in the residential park started, and you were a party then, MSZP and DK did not exist separately, they were not on separate paths, and this investment started at your time in this district. The socialist mayor, Gyula Molnár, signed the contract with which he rented this area for 20 years! the investor who has chosen a good face for this project, as he said that it is a guarantee of quality if Gábor Kuncze is the chairman of the supervisory board of this project. [[Péter Cseresnyés: Come on!]] So they're the ones who started it, and they're the ones who started it, and they're the ones who started it, and they're the ones who started it, and they're the ones who started it. And then, no, the housing park stopped and stopped, and more precisely, the construction of welfare lakes and the necessary work did not begin. The municipality called on the owner of the lake park at the time to settle the situation of the lake lake itself; another question was that it was a good idea to build such a housing park in such a swampy area, and how sustainable this idea was, but you obviously know it better, because you were there then, and you looked at the possibilities of this. The point is that the company did not perform its tasks, so in 2017 the municipality decided to terminate the lease agreement, which, of course, had the lame mistake, so that the person who reaped the profits from the residential park withdrew from the arrangement of the abandoned and destroyed environment. The municipality has started to settle the environment and will ensure [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I want the lake area to be okay. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-01-180	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance:. What about handling labour market problems? It's an address. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-07-01-181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Deputy Minister, Minister Varga boasted of low unemployment a few months ago, while the reality is that the normal functioning of the economy and society is already threatened by the great shortage of workers. The population is falling dramatically, migration is increasing, Hungarian women do not give birth despite the government's efforts. The number of vacant posts is increasing. What's the government's answer to that? The 2020 budget reduces the expenditure of the National Employment Fund by more than HUF 50 billion, with the task of dealing with local labour market crises threatening the work of hundreds of people and promoting employment through training and vocational training. As far as the fund's revenues are concerned, they have only increased by HUF 100 billion in the last ten years, despite the fact that average wages have doubled. More money should have been collected from health insurance and labour market contributions. How could this happen? By reducing labour market contributions by the government. On this basis, it is clear that it considers employers, especially large companies, to be more important than employees. In the draft budget for 2020, HUF 71 billion is transferred from the main revenues of the NFA, from the contributions of employees and employers to the central register. I ask where the workers' money goes, how they spend the abstract HUF 71 billion, if not to deal with labour market problems. How do you want to deal with structural problems, local crises, while less and less money is being spent on training and re-training? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2019-07-01-182	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. We will hear the answer from Mr András Tállai, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-07-01-183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Yes, it is true that low unemployment and labour shortages go hand in hand; in such a situation, the government can have no other task but to help meet labour needs, which means in particular as much involvement of inactive people in employment as possible, so that the number of people in need of help is further reduced. On this basis, there is less expenditure on benefits, more and more people can choose and choose the open labour market rather than public employment. Positive processes lead to savings in the National Employment Fund. [[17.10]] Contrary to the statement made by the Member, the government does not withdraw, but proposes to use it in the field of vocational training, as set out in Article 9 of the draft budget law. It is also stated in Section 5 of the Act. The budgetary contribution shall cover the running costs of vocational schools. The government's aim must be to use active employment policy instruments to reduce labour shortages, such as the aim of increasing mobility and its intention. That is why we are expanding the work-in-campus construction programme and extending the funding for applications. We also want to create new jobs. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to a material error. What you call a labour market contribution is not an employer's public burden, but a worker's salary. The rate of this individual contribution has not changed in 12 years. In the context of simplifying the administration of taxation, this former autonomous tax was merged as from 1 January 2010, but its rate remained unchanged. In light of this, your claim about the government's contribution policy does not correspond to the reality. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-01-184	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Bence Tordai, representative of the Dialogue, would you like to ask the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade:. Are you planning on having the government adopt another slave law with Parliament so that the BMW does not stop building its new factory in Debrecen? It's an address. Congressman Bence of Turdai has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Perhaps everyone remembers the slave law when the fidesz majority opposed the interests and will of the workers, serving the international corporations and the oligarchs near Fidesz, drastically corrupted the working conditions, the code of law governing the world of work. You may also remember that in the German press this was called the BMW Slave Law, and you may also remember that Lajos Kósa is in the room, that it was just about the time that Lajos Kósa and his mother's company suddenly had luxury cars and sports engines from somewhere, and we also know that this happened just as BMW continued to design its factory in Debrecen. This is the investment in Debrecen that will receive or receive HUF 135 billion of state aid, which means that it will amount to HUF 135 million per job, i.e. the Hungarian state will pay this thousand workers' wages for 20 years in advance of all of our money. And then, when it turned out that the markets were slightly less good, BMW may not want to make capacity-enhancing investments here in Hungary, then panic broke out, and everyone began to worry, but Minister Szijjártó assured people that BMW would have its investment, contrary to market news. The question on the part of the Dialogue is what was promised them beyond 135 billion forints. Can we expect another slave law, face the interests of the people again, serve the capital again, serve the German car manufacturers again? Whether it is the fight against climate change or a new change in the Hungarian Labour Code. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Car-Cake Olivio applauds.]]
u2019-07-01-186	Thank you very much. The answer will be heard from Secretary of State Tamás Menczer. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-07-01-187	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Mr. Congressman, speaking of the Hungarian people, you have spoken against the Hungarian people and against the interests of Hungary, but there is nothing new about this, and we are used to it. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] I would like to remind you that, thanks to the MSZP, your political ally, and his blessed activities, unemployment was above 12% in 2010, so one of the most important tasks of the Orbán government was to create jobs. This work has been successful, with unemployment now around 3.5 percent. So anyone who wants can work in Hungary. Thanks to job opportunities and constantly rising wages, Hungarian people and Hungarian families can advance from time to time, and I ask you not to take this away from the Hungarian people. I would like to inform you that in 2018, 29 positive projects were decided through our investment agency, which will be carried out in the fields of research and development, service centres and infocommunication. This is a 60% increase compared to 2017. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that in 2018 the average wage for projects and investments through our investment agency was HUF 425 thousand, which is a 40% increase compared to the previous year. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] This shows, therefore, that more and more companies bring the jobs with the highest added value to Hungary, of course, production capacity is an advantage in this after it has been relocated. Speaking of state aid, for the year 18 I would like to say that we have provided HUF 135 billion in non-refundable aid for 98 investments, the total value of these investments is HUF 138 billion. So about a tenth of these were the total state aid in the year 18. In conclusion, I would like to say that, as I said, your allies have destroyed the country, and the current government is working with the people in an alliance, for the people. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] And one more thought, as you add here, I would like to point your attention to Jávor Benedek's career in relation to wailing, to the end of that, to you, too, in relation to the Hungarian Parliament. You'll be able to yell at me until then. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Gergely Harvesto: What a lousy thing to do! Shame on you.]]
u2019-07-01-188	Mr. Secretary, that wasn't an elegant answer. [[Interventions from opposition parties.]] I will not open a debate, fellow Members. András Gyopáros... Alpár Gyopáros, a representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question:. What does the specialty do to support the domestic beekeeper society in order to preserve its distinguished place in the European Union, the traditional apiary activity will be one of the most successful in Hungary for a long time? It's an address. Congressman Gyopáros Alpár has the floor, and I will follow you to be baptized. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-189	Thank you, Mr. President, no problem. Dear Secretary of State, The implementation of the Hungarian bee-keeping national programme was clearly very successful in the 2017-2018 implementation period as well. This is supported by the programme's utilisation rate, which was 99,17 per cent. The period 2019-2021 can be planned with further expansion of resources, with around 40% more resources available for the purchase of food quality and production efficiency tools, honey testing, environmental load monitoring and professional training. The CAP's allocation for the next support period may increase even further. Hungary is a honey power, as we are the third largest honey producers in the European Union, and the effective use of the expected surplus resources can strengthen this position. The importance of the domestic bee sector in the European Union can undoubtedly be further increased. I ask Mr Secretary of State what the portfolio does to support the domestic beekeeper society, so that it can retain its rightful position within the European Union, and traditional bee-keeping can be one of the most successful in Hungary for a long time. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-01-190	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be heard from Secretary of State Sándor Farkas. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-07-01-191	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I agree with the Member, Hungary is indeed a honey power. Here in Europe is the second largest bee density, some 20,000 beekeepers farm 1.2 million bee families. Thus Hungary is the third largest honey producer in the European Union by 25,000 tonnes per year. The Hungarian beekeeper's national programme has been successful and has been particularly popular among beekeepers since its introduction in 2013. The European Commission has approved Member States' bee-keeping programmes for the period 2020-2022. It shows the strength of the Hungarian bee-keeping sector that Hungary receives 7.8 percent of the EU budget of more than HUF 37 billion and nearly HUF 3 billion, which is the seventh highest among the EU Member States. [[17.20]] This represents an increase of HUF 575 million compared to the current programme. The government is ready to support the sector with the same amount of funding from the national budget in accordance with EU co-financing rules and will receive a total of HUF 5 billion of HUF 878 million in the years 2020 and 2022. The increased amount of aid may provide for further support for successful measures such as the acquisition of new equipment for the extraction of honey, the storage of spleen, the control of pests and diseases attacking bee families or the further operation of the advisory network. Thanks to the promotion programme of the past period, honey consumption per capita per year has been increased from 30 to 40 deca/person to 70 to 80 decagram/person in recent years. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] However, this is not enough; our campaigns will continue to promote both honey consumption. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-01-192	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Csaba Gyüre, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister responsible for innovation and technology: "How long does the MÁV abuse people's patience? It's an address. Congressman Csaba Gyüre has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-193	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Budapest, Cegléd, Szolnok. As the majority of people hear this, three beautiful Hungarian cities come to mind, but Budapest is only the daily chaos for commuters from the agglomeration, for which no one is somehow responsible, because the most delays occur on this railway line on a national scale. Unfortunately, it is regularly that the desperate mothers who travel from Cegléd, from Monor to Budapest, who are working at work, or who are in a rush to school, are late 20-30 minutes in the morning or on their way home to school and preschool before closing, are anxious to return to school due to delays of 20-30 minutes. Since the new schedule has been on the line since the beginning of summer, chaos has taken an incredible measure. Daily delays of 20-30-60 minutes during the otherwise 36-minute journey, as well as uninformed ticket-checkers, loudspeakers and continuously decomposing locomotives that convey conflicting information, all faulty track elements make the lives of passengers miserable. It is an everyday story that the MÁV takes at least an hour of commuter life from the monori railway station to the Western Railway Station, then on its way home. That means at least 200 hours a year, so more than a month's working time for a person. The daily Calvary consists of drying in 40 degrees on the trains, no air conditioning, of course, the toilets are unrated, the stations are broken down. The stairs at Kőbánya-Kispest station have fallen, the Western Railway Station is leaking, the complaint letters are serial, they are averted, there is no responsibility, the apologies pointing back to the technical state of the railway only make the situation worse. Foam on the cake that after a few hundred meters of train leaving the West, he stopped in the land of no man, leaving people without a driver and a conductor. Dear Secretary of State, How long does the MÁV continue to abuse people's patience? Why should a public company damage the national economy by failing to get people to work because of the MÁV's mistake? What action can be expected from you, or do you consider it sufficient that the heads of the MÁV receive high-priority payments and bonuses? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-07-01-194	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-07-01-195	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, If we use the terms "chaos" or "sorry" or "sorry" or "sorry" or "sorry," then we need to say something more about you, more specifically, about your performance or series of failures since April 2018 than about the state of state railways. [[An uproar in Jobbik's ranks.]] While you have lost a significant proportion of your constituents, the MÁV carried 2.8 million more passengers on its busiest ten lines in 2018 than a year earlier. So this means that trust in the railway has increased for the MÁV. The Budapest-Cegléd-Szolnok line is one of the busiest domestic lines, therefore the MÁV pays special attention to its operation. The main reason for the delays on the line between Nyugati Railway Station and Kőbánya-Kispest has been cancelled for decades; for decades, I would like to stress, not on the basis of recent years. Of course, the issues of complete renovation are on the agenda, but as long as metro line M3 is being renovated, it cannot begin at all, because the railway line is an important detour route for the passengers on the subway. The placing on the market of double-decked motor trains for those on this line will make very serious progress faster than that. With their capacity of 600 seats, these fittings can significantly reduce congestion. Due to their reliability and dynamic performance, transport will also be strengthened, and the quality of travel will also be improved by their air-conditioning. Honourable Congressman, You may have missed the news of the past few weeks, so I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the only bottlenecks in the possible 12 routes of the new bunk trains investigated are the Small Gellért Mountain Tunnel. In my geographical knowledge, but I may be wrong, and you have other knowledge, and this is not on the Budapest-Cegléd-Szolnok route, so the sentence you call ridiculous doesn't hold up. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-07-01-196	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Member László Földi, representative of KDNP, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources:, How do you assess the results of the OECD survey? What does the government do for the long-term recognition of the teaching profession? It's an address. Congressman László Földi has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-197	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, It has recently been published as a result of a large-scale international study by the OECD, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, which maps teachers' pedagogical methods. In the 2018 survey, teachers and directors from 48 countries replied to the questionnaires, with a total of almost 160,000. From Hungary, 3245 teachers and 182 institutional leaders took part in the test, representing about 44,000 teachers working in the 5-8th grade, i.e. higher education teachers. The survey has issued a good certificate of our country: the preparedness of Hungarian teachers exceeds the OECD average at all points examined. Among other things, they are superior to international averages in learning organisation, subject-specific and general pedagogical skills, and in the development of cross-curricular skills. In terms of the use of infocommunication tools and teaching in a multicultural or multilingual environment, teachers feel most prepared, but even at these two points their performance is better than the high average. Dear Secretary of State, The results have shown that the ageing of the pedagogical society is a serious problem throughout the region. The detailed data show that half of the respondents in Hungary are from the age group over 50, while the proportion of those under 30 is less than 5 percent. The overall average is 44 years, while the average age in Hungary is 47,6 years. On the basis of the above, I ask Mr Secretary of State how he evaluates the results and what the government is doing for the long-term recognition of the teaching profession. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-01-198	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-07-01-199	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, This OECD report was indeed a carpet bombing on the opposition's arguments a few weeks ago, which is why they are very quiet about it, because essentially everything the opposition said and tried to reduce the performance of Hungarian teachers, the performance of the Hungarian school system [[Gergely Arató: Let's talk about your performance.]] , almost everything was refuted by the OECD's report. Of the things that are visualized that it is on the brink of collapse, it is immediately collapsing, much worse than in other countries, none of which has been confirmed by the OECD report, but said that in general it is said that somewhere around the OECD average, the average of the most advanced countries is one or another of the performances of the Hungarian school system. One of the most positive things is that in preparation, however, we exceed the OECD average, so Hungarian teachers are prepared. Which means the weekly workspace is completely average: 39,1. The maximum working burden is 60 hours between OECD countries, of course there is a twenty-hour average in the Mediterranean, but overall there is no higher burden than in other developed countries, if you look at the average. With regard to the administrative burden, the OECD also says that the administrative burden of the Hungarian educator is lower than in the developed countries in general. [[17 .30]] So in this we managed to achieve a noticeable shift about three or four years ago, when we modified and reduced the different administrative burdens. There must be less discipline for Hungarian students, obviously because we are less of a country affected by migration, also through government measures, so teachers must not eliminate cultural differences in the classroom, but they can deal with the curriculum, and so, as the OECD report says, teachers can deal with actual teaching more than the EU average and the OECD average. So I think that's important, too. Let me mention one more thing: 27 percent of early-stage teachers have mentors in Hungary, while only 22 percent have mentors at EU level, so helping first-timers is better than the OECD average, but the positives could still be continued at another time. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-07-01-200	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, That concludes the questions. We now have the debate on the Commission's report on the amendment of certain laws in the context of Members' immunity. T/6212 submitted by our colleagues from Máté Kocsis, Lajos Kósa, Zsolt Nitrai Fideszes and Lőrinc Nacsa KDNP The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available to all of them on the House's IT network. I'm going to ask the authors that one of them would like to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if someone on the government's side wants to speak. (No applicants.) I don't see any contact. No rapporteur was set up by the designated Judicial Committee. The speeches are now taking place in the time frame on the agenda, and a two-minute comment is not possible during the debate. I am now asking my fellow Members who wishes to speak in accordance with the time frame. [[There's no such signal.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. In this case, I think it has become useless to ask the rapporteur that he now wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Congressman Lajos Kósa has ten minutes on the whole. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-201	Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, We are discussing a bill that has been forced by life, because there has never been an example in the past that every member of the opposition, who has been delegated to the National Election Committee, from Jobbik to the LMP, has decided not to suspend the immunity of a criminal who has already been convicted twice for the same acts that have already been prosecuted at the Szeged Tribunal, namely Csaba Czeglédy. Csaba Czeglédy was placed on the European list by DK in place of their 30 shares, so it is obvious that they did not do this with the intention of getting in from there, since it could not have been admitted in conceptually. They did this because Csaba Czeglédy knows too much, Csaba Czeglédy is a criminal who knows too much about the opposition and had to be rescued from legal proceedings, even temporarily. There has been no case in the past that a candidate who has been officially registered as a candidate for office and who has been initiated to suspend his immunity in a public case would not have been granted by the Election Committee. He's got everybody out. Csaba Czegledy is the first exception. Csaba Czeglédy is also remarkable because he is the one who has been able to achieve the great opposition cooperation, because the opposition has not agreed on anything until now, but in full: Csaba Czeglédy, the repeatedly convicted, reptile criminal, must be removed from court proceedings. The stakes are not small: Csaba Csaba Czeglédy would be detained for more than 6 billion, this is VAT fraud, tax fraud, fiscal fraud, abuse, breach of accounting order and discipline and counterfeiting of authentic instruments. The proceedings were also closed, since the Szeged Tribunal could do nothing but terminate the proceedings. And now we're looking at an unworthy debate about what to do at a time like this, because there has never been such an example: should you re-submit the charge, or can you continue the court proceedings from the stage where it was terminated? Csaba Czeglédy and his lawyers, the former Member of Parliament of SZDSZ in particular, Miklós Hangó Faragó, represent the view that this is a case where once there was a court case, it has been terminated, it cannot be restarted. It is clear that there is a great debate and a great fear about the fact that Czeglédy is going to be brought before the court, and perhaps it will be revealed what the political actions in which he took part are: who he financed, where did the 6 billion forints disappear, where is the rest of it, and why is it so incredibly important to save a criminal for the entire Hungarian opposition that they have been using this obviously transparent and well-known tool to save Csaba Czeglédy? Csaba Czeglédy was not the first attempt to stop criminal proceedings against him. During the spring elections he was arrested in advance when he collected the 500 supporting signatures in Szombathely to participate as a candidate in the then spring parliamentary elections as a candidate. The reason why the arrest was not lifted against him was because part of the opposition in the then Election Committee decided to issue Csaba Czeglédy, thus suspending his immunity, and therefore could not come out of detention in advance. But there is no doubt that in the European Parliament elections, the real intention has already been shown: to excuse Csaba Czeglédy at all costs, and there is no doubt that if there were any interim elections in Hungary in the coming period, Csaba Czeglédy would be on it and his immunity would be revived again, which, by the way, was fully supported by the opposition, everyone. Therefore, we have tabled an amendment to the House which settles this issue, namely, in the event of action against someone on the basis of a court decision restricting their personal freedom, or an indictment has already been filed in court, and this whole matter started before his candidacy, he does not have the right to immunity. Thus, Csaba Czeglédy and the opposition are forced to say goodbye to an important weapon, namely that more criminals cannot be launched in elections with reference to this, and then obstruct justice by hiding behind immunity. Let's not forget it's a real big game. Czeglédy was a midwife to Momentum's cradle, because according to press information, the NOlympia signature was financed by Czeglédy, the Czeglédy money, and the Czeglédy's organizations did the work; just as it was there behind Zoltán Késző's interim election campaign; and, of course, Csaba Czeglédy acted on more cases than a lawyer in the interests of MSZP. Ferenc Gyurcsány has dealt with more cases than a lawyer; we also know that Klára Dobrev, the wife of Ferenc Gyurcsány's company, has lent him more than 170 million forints, which, by the way, raises and bases suspicions of illegal financial institutions, which the prosecution investigates. In Hungarian, Csaba Czeglédy, we can quite certainly say: Klára Dobrev's business partner, a criminal who has been repeatedly repulsive, who is now accused of a budget fraud of 6 billion dollars. I think the case speaks for itself. At a time when the opposition is corrupting, thieving and accusing government parties of all kinds, it certainly does not sweep its own house, even with this verbal campaign, trying to conceal the obvious fact that the opposition as a whole does not excuse a criminal: it has saved me from the court proceedings concerning it. [[17.40]] It's done. It's a legal fact, because Czeglédy's indictment has been filed. In Czeglédy's case, however, no one has ever thought that there was a kind of balloon in this case, several people were convicted legally, by the way, mentioning during the trial that Czeglédy, as the head of the entire criminal organization, is behind the organization of the part-actions. During the preliminary hearing, more than nine people made detailed fact-finding statements, of which three final judgments have already been handed down, and a final judgment has also been made in connection with Czeglédy in a separate case. Punishment has been imposed everywhere, and in more than half of the cases the punishment cannot be alleviated because it was committed in a criminal organization. So here, I can safely say, one of the most serious crimes behind the funding of the opposition, no doubt. There is no doubt that a criminal has been absolved by the opposition, a criminal has been brought out of the proceedings of the Szeged Tribunal in connection with the abuse of immunity. There's no excuse for that. There's no excuse for that. All we can do is try to use the means of law to prevent the opposition from abusing immunity and the means to get a criminal out of the proceedings here. Of course, we look forward to continuing the proceedings, and we also look forward to deciding what really needs to be done, to resubmit the indictment or to proceeding with the court proceedings. This is now the jurisdiction of the referee, which will be the basis for the proceedings. But the opposition will not wash itself off by conspiring with criminals, non-corners, criminals, and abuse of immunity, bringing criminals out of the proceedings, if only temporarily. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-01-202	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, As the debate is closed and the closing word has been said, the decisions will take place on tomorrow's sitting. The Commission's reports on the groundwork of Hungary's central budget for 2020 and the discussion of the draft amending proposal are now under way. The government referral is T/6361. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to László Horváth, rapporteur of the committee. I don't know if anyone's giving a minority opinion. [[There's no signal.]] No. Then your time frame is 15 minutes. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-07-01-203	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 27 June 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/6361 on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2020. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report were adopted by 24 votes in favour, no votes against, with 6 abstentions. The most important task of the proposed legislation is legal harmonisation, in order to ensure consistency between the budget and tax laws, their implementation should be smooth and legal. It is no coincidence that these three legislative proposals will be discussed almost always at the same time in this House. We see that, together with the summary amendment proposal, a bill has been put on the table in this House to ensure the regularity, legality and implementation of the budget for next year. With this in mind, I would like to ask you to vote in favour of the adoption of this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-01-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. I am now asking Mr Péter Benő Banai, State Secretary, if you would like to speak. [[Peter Benő Banai nodds.]] I will inform you by indicating that you wish to have a total timeframe of 10 minutes with the closing word. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-07-01-205	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, It is a large one, and I think it is a major bill, so allow me to sum up the main features of the proposed legislation and the amendments that have been made during the debate. As Congressman László Horváth said, it has been the fifth year that three important legislative proposals have been submitted to Parliament for next year. In our view, this will further strengthen security, predictability and predictability for the economy and families. The proposal for a final vote in favour of next year's budget and tax package aims at creating regulatory changes directly or indirectly linked to the implementation of the 2020 budget. As at the beginning of the general process, I think it is important to emphasise that next year's budget will focus on support for families and measures in the family protection action plan. So next year, the government intends to use more than ever HUF 2228 billion to support families. The draft budget for 2020 also focuses on two other important areas, such as protecting the economic results achieved and safeguarding the country's security. The amendments to individual laws of an administrative nature aim at continuing the government's administration and tax reduction policy. These include a number of measures to assist domestic businesses, as set out in the Economic Protection Action Plan. The further regulatory changes contained in the bill are in line with the government's social, budgetary and economic policy objectives, which contribute to sustainable economic growth, the protection and support of families and the further reduction of administrative burdens. Dear Parliament, After the general and detailed discussion of the bill, which has already been completed, I must point out that the vast majority of the proposals for amendments have not developed a serious conflict between the government and the representatives in opposition benches. In many cases, opposition representatives did not oppose the adoption of a bill covering almost all areas of social and economic life, including the amendment of 59 laws. All this, as well as the speeches made in the debate on the bill, suggests that the vast majority of Members agree with or accept the Government's motion, regardless of party standing, that there are virtually a few provisions in the debate. Ladies and Gentlemen, With the adoption of the bill, more efficient and transparent use of public money can be achieved. At the same time, the operation of state and municipal owned companies can become more economical and the administrative burden of public administrations will be further reduced. In the municipal sector, it will be possible that if only the timing of the drawdown of the loan amount is changed, it will be sufficient to submit an application containing the need for an amendment. In the bill before you, the government has made a number of points to reduce the administrative burden not only for the state but also for those involved in economic and scientific life. This will allow individual entrepreneurs to transform into single-member companies and the administrative burden of restructuring companies can be further reduced. In terms of social benefits, the amount of care premiums increases significantly, and in basic social care, the government broadens the range of small settlements where village care services can operate. In addition, budget support for the operation of the family nursery and the daycare center in the workplace will increase significantly next year, helping parents in their role as parents in raising children. Therefore, the amendment sets out the maximum amount of institutional remuneration payable by parents in these types of institutions. Dear House, Let me also respond to some of the criticisms expressed during the general debate. The services of drug treatment and rehabilitation institutions of different types will be available from the age of 16 to the age of 12. The purpose of the amendment proposal is to provide a legal guarantee that young people who use different design drugs can resume a healthy lifestyle after appropriate rehabilitation care. The termination of the Erzsébet vouchers also makes it necessary to amend the Act on the Erzsébet Programme and the Law on the property offered for the benefit of the Hungarian National Holiday Foundation. On this basis, in the future, the Erzsébet programme will provide a public task specifically related to participation in youth and children's programmes, the organisation of children's and youth camps, as well as organisational and management tasks related to these tasks. With regard to the amendment of the Act on the Erzsébet programme, I would like to emphasise once again that the purpose of the amendment is not to abolish social leave, it continues to function as a programme supported by the State. [[17.50]] In the context of the amendment of the law on company disclosure, court proceedings and winding-up, I would point out that the proposal seeks to ensure that the free company information is available only for information purposes. However, personal access to company data and company files will remain free of charge at company courts and the Company Information Service. [[Dr. László György Lukács intervenes.]] Dear Parliament, Following the submission of the bill to Parliament, there was no substantive, substantive change in the content of the proposal, the amendments mainly contain technical clarifications that facilitate the application of the law. However, let me also highlight some substantive amendments following the general debate on the bill. By amending the Act on the Erzsébet programme, the regulation makes it clear that the Erzsébet programme continues to operate in a state-supported form, so that the recreation of large family members, pensioners and people with disabilities is continuous and undisturbed. As a result of the amendment, it becomes clear that the interest on the Hungarian State Paper Plus securities can also be credited in the form of securities. I would like to mention here that you have exceeded the amount of HUF 1 000 billion in the total amount of items quoted from the new sovereign debt. The amendment concerning fundamental and constitutional rights is that the Civil Procedure Act is supplemented by a provision under which every member of nationalities living in Hungary, recognised by the National Rights Act, has been granted the right to use the language of nationality in civil proceedings. Ladies and Gentlemen, In conclusion, I would like to stress that the legislative proposal for a final vote is a close union with the draft central budget law for 2020. We believe that our proposals are fully in line with the government's fiscal policy and serve the interests of the domestic economy and the well-being of Hungarian families. On this basis, I ask you to accept the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-01-206	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'd like to inform you that you have two minutes and 30 seconds left to say your closing words. Thank you for your cooperation so far. Before we continue the debate, I will give the chair to Vice-President István Hiller. Here you go. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2019-07-01-207	Good afternoon. We'll get back to work. The designated Committee on Budgets has not presented a rapporteur for this first information that I can give you. At the same time, I give the floor to Mr Antal Paulik, a Slovak ethnic advocate, the rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary related to the debate, who presents the first sentences of his speech in the language of nationality and then translates them into Hungarian. Mr. Speaker, please.
u2019-07-01-208	-akujem za slovo pán predseda! Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Vážený pán predseda, vážené panie poslankyne a hovorkyne, vážení pani poslanci a hovorcovia! Vo svojom príhovore informujem Vás o stanovisku Výboru národností Ma.arska, ktoré sme si vytvorili po podrobnej rozprave k návrhu zákona číslo T/6361 o príprave ústredného rozpočtu Ma.arska na rok 2020. Mr President, Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Dear Secretary of State, In my speech, you will be informed by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, T/6361. on the draft law on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2020 in the course of a detailed debate. The Nationalities Committee of Hungary discussed the bill in a detailed debate at its meeting on 24 June, in accordance with the house rules. According to the committee's decision in the course of the debate, HSZ 45. Paragraph 5 of the Act states that the Commission has tabled an amendment closing a detailed debate on the bill, which it also submitted in the Parlex system after the committee meeting. The initiative submitted is the 87th bill under discussion. the following text was added: - (1) The 2011 CXCV on public finances. Law No. 1 The following point (j) is added to paragraph 14 of Section 3: [[Budget support for the purposes of this Act: aid granted in cash from the central sub-scheme of public finances excluding the financial bases of social security, excluding]] (j) support for the general functioning and tasks of the national authorities. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The substance or purpose of the proposal can be summarised from a professional point of view in order to ensure that the management funds of the national authorities are subject to uniform treatment with local authorities and that there is no discrimination against them in the system of public finances. They have the same legal status under the Fundamental Law and the existing legal provisions, but the two municipal systems perform completely different public tasks. Therefore, their operation and farming cannot be slavishly described by the same rules. While in the current system their legal status, as I have already mentioned, is the same, at the same time as the Aht. 3. Despite the provisions of Paragraph 3 of this Article, they still have different public finances. In addition, let us not forget that the characteristics of the municipalities are completely different, as in the case of local authorities, the municipalities of small settlements are Mötv. also lays down different rules. As a result of the discrimination described above, the obligations of national authorities are the same as those of local authorities, while some budgetary resources can only be granted by tender on an individual basis. By resolving this internal legal contradiction, we believe that discrimination against national self-governments could have been eliminated. According to the current situation, national authorities can obtain funds from the central budget in two different ways and, after use, these grants are accounted for in two parallel schemes. This double settlement is unduly burdensome for organisations carrying out the management tasks of the national authorities. Our proposed solution would have made it possible for the Aht. Under its mandate, the Government will set out in a regulation the rules on the support and management of national authorities, which could thus take into account the specific situation of national authorities in the public finances and in the public administration system. Without a detailed reflection and revision of the management rules, the support organisations in this case are neither the Bethlen Gábor Fund Manager nor the EMET, nor the supported organisations, i.e. the national authorities, are able to make Áht possible. carry out their tasks in the fields of financial planning, financing of tasks, the use and accounting of grants and the processing of accounts and the control of their use within the limits laid down in this Regulation. The main aim of the amendment tabled by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary was to enable all stakeholders to carry out their tasks in the current legislative environment and to be able to manage legitimately. We were confident that, on the basis of our initiative, in order to find solutions, we would be able to take the first, perhaps most important, step towards the establishment of their own management rules for national authorities. After the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 27 June revealed that the Government did not support this amendment, the TAB's summary amendment was no longer included. As said at the TAB meeting, during the autumn, the Nationality Committee will initiate a further consultation with the Government's State Secretary for Churches and Nationalities and the Ministry of Finance in order to resolve the problem outlined. .akujem Vám za posornosť! Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2019-07-01-209	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. I would like to inform you that there is no possibility of a two-minute comment during this debate. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, has applied for a speech. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-210	Mr President, Dear House, I don't want to bring chills on anyone, we're not going to take advantage of the time frame, of course, in its entirety. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] Since the general debate, we cannot talk about a fundamental structural change, we are still talking about a salad that is trying to approach 59 themes by discussing them one by one in a meaningful debate. [[18.00]] There is obviously one in which we could agree, and there is also a topic where only our complete rejection can be encountered by the government side, even if in a detailed debate these differences may not emerge as a bulk cheese. It is therefore obviously not fair to wrap the underlying elements of the budget in this way, but they have been completely mixed with the content of the budget, the demographic programme, the economic protection action plan, where there are serious similarities between us and serious debates. This would make it very difficult to support what lies before us as a package. I would also like to say that there has been progress in history, so, unfortunately, since the general debate is justified, the indicators here are against the performance of the government, and I am very unhappy with the fact that this is so, but in terms of the latest demographic reports, the situation is even more cumbersome than we know it to be. The fertility rate also decreased, the number of live births decreased, and the number of deaths did not show a significant decrease. So, as we approach this problem from these three directions, unfortunately, our situation has not become easier, and I am quite certain that similar salads, bulk cheeses and various political-gastronomical wonders will help us to move forward, but rather, broken down into themes and produced in a fair time of debate, the national minimums on health should be the economic issues that would be available. They're supposed to be in front of us, but we're not arguing about them. Practically everyone has abandoned their own certificate during the debate on the basis of the budget, which is what they try to make voters believe, but in this style and in such a genre, there can be no progress on substantive national issues. Thank you for your attention. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2019-07-01-211	Thank you very much, Congressman, and also for helping us avoid chills. I'd like to ask you who else is joining this. [[There's no such signal.]] [[There's no such signal.]] This question should be asked in accordance with the house rules by a person wishing to speak out of the remaining time frame. (There is no such indication. ) I'll say no. The debate is closed. I'll ask the author, Mr. Secretary of State, if you'd like to reflect. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2019-07-01-212	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to respond very briefly to the two comments made. As regards the promotion of nationalities, the proposal of the Committee on Nationalities would have been an exception to general government rules in respect of nationalities. The problem on the part of the government was that no rules were laid down in the motion to support nationalities, so I am confirming what I did at the Legislative Committee meeting, namely, the government is, of course, open to negotiating the renewal of the rules on national aid. As regards Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát's points, first of all, I note that the motion, the bill before you, contains a number of measures which, as has been said, also have the support of opposition representatives. As regards demographic issues: it is 1 July, today a number of measures have been launched in the family protection action plan. I believe that it is important, because of the demographic processes mentioned by the Member, that the government's measures and the resources needed to implement these measures should be supported by Parliament in next year's budget bill, and that this bill is accompanied by a bill on the basis of the 2020 budget. That is why I think that if the demographic issue is important, then the underlying law may also be supported. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-07-01-213	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 2013 CCXXXII on the amendment of certain public education laws and the provision of national public education textbooks. The Commission's reports on the proposal to repeal the Act and the discussion of the draft amendments. The government referral is T/6457. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a maximum period of 15 minutes. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-214	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 27 June 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed the amendment of certain public education laws and the 2013 CCXXXII on the provision of national public education textbooks. T/6457. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 24 votes in favour, 5 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, This bill provides for the establishment of a supplement depending on the number of institutions, as well as the possibility of setting an incentive supplement. For teachers, if the employer determines a task related to a purpose other than those in which they are employed, and that general work force is significantly exceeded, the legal application may be used in the future. Based on the Government's decision, from 1 September 2020 all basic and secondary education courses will be covered by free textbook provision. This is also our goal to relieve the burden of families who have children. It is all linked to the fact that the rules of textbook provision will also be laid down in the Public Education Act in the future. The draft law also fulfills the legislative task requested by the Constitutional Court to strengthen legal and professional guarantees for children and pupils with integration, learning and behavioural difficulties. The measures taken to amend and expand services will further ensure the development of pupils in line with their individual abilities. In addition, the proposal amends the monitoring of compulsory pre-school attendance from the age of three, introduced from 2015, and also clarifies the conditions for the transition from kindergarten school. It should also be pointed out that private learning is replaced by an individual working order and that this will be authorised by a single authority, which will ensure uniform legislation and application of law. Ladies and gentlemen, To sum up, the purpose of the bill we are discussing is to support the development of children and pupils, and to give greater financial appreciation to teachers and school principals, thereby making the teaching career and the institution's management mandate more attractive. I would ask my fellow Members to support the proposal in the final vote. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-07-01-215	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Now I'm going to ask the author, Mr. Secretary of State, if you'd like to... [[For signal:]] It indicates that at the end. And I will inform you that you will have 10 minutes in total. I would like to inform you, Honourable Parliament, that the designated Committee on Culture has not presented a rapporteur. I now give the floor to Mr Antal Paulik, a Slovak ethnic advocate, the rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary related to the debate, who will present the first sentences of his speech in the language of nationality and then translate them into Hungarian. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-216	-akujem za slovo, pan predseda! Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Vážený pán predseda, vážený poslanci, hovorcovia! Dame the panic! Mr President, Congressmen! Speakers! Ladies and gentlemen. As a spokesperson requested by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, I would like to inform you briefly that our committee initiated the amendment of certain laws relating to public education and the 2013 CCXXXII on the textbook provision of national public education. T/6457. The declaration of the draft law as a nationality item. On 24 June 2019 the Committee held a detailed debate on that bill on the basis of the relevant regulatory provisions. The Committee did not comment on the proposed amendments to the bill, but expressed an intention to make further amendments. The committee shall adopt the Rules of Procedure 45. Article 5 of the Act provides for a Commission amendment, which includes a proposal for amendment, which closes a detailed debate, and which I will briefly describe. [[18.10]] The Public Education Act is in force 67. Pursuant to Paragraph 3 of Article 3, only teachers with a degree in nationality and working in such a job may hold an institutional directorship in the educational institutions of nationality, and those who belong to that nationality should be given priority if the same conditions exist. T/6457. According to bill No 67. Paragraph 3 of Article 3 would be repealed. Point 1 of the amendment proposed by the Committee on Nationalities therefore aims to ensure that the provisions on the term of office of head of the institution in the institutions for education and training of nationalities remain unchanged. István Széchenyi said that the nation lives in his language. This is particularly the case here and today for nationalities who do not live in their own home country, not in their own language environment. It is very important for us nationalities in Hungary to be teachers at the head of the ethnic public education institutions, who are well-known, speak the national minority language, and this is guaranteed by the proposed provisions of the Public Education Act in the proposed bill. The abolition of these provisions would therefore cause moral harm and a bad feeling in nationalities, since it would be incompatible with the spirit of the educational autonomy of nationalities. The main reason for the satisfaction of the nationalities in Hungary is that, in the period since the change of regime, it has been possible to achieve the previously non-existent, cultural and, in particular, educational autonomy of individual nationalities. Point 2 of our amendment proposal aims to make the national minority language allowance, which has been increased significantly in recent years, more differentiated. It is proposed to set a flat-rate bonus of 30% at a lower limit of 10% and a ceiling of 40%. In this context, it is necessary to increase the allocation of support and the specific amount of support for the national minority allowance to 40 per cent of the maximum value of the language allowance for teachers who perform the role of ethnic education and education, which we intend to manage in the proposal of the Budget Act for next year. At the same time as increasing the nationality bonus, the differentiation of the bonus would also be introduced in proportion to the working time spent on education and education. This would make all teachers of national education eligible for the nationality allowance differentiated and proportionate. At its meeting on 27th, the Legislative Committee discussed our proposal and formulated point 1 in the summarised amendment proposal, and in relation to point 2 it was said at the Committee's meeting that we should return to the House with this point after the entry into force of the Finance Act. So the committee of nationalities re-submits point 2 of its amending proposal in the autumn session. .akujem Vám za posornosť. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-07-01-217	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. Congressman Gergely Arató asked for an opportunity to speak, DK. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-218	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, When she reported on the meeting of the Legislative Committee, she repeated most of the general reasoning and did not say anything about the proposals submitted to this law by the Legislative Committee, which would be the most important task of this debate. In addition to the rejection by the commission and then the Legislative Committee of the proposals submitted by opposition representatives in order to try in some way to reduce the damage caused by this proposal in the field of kindergarten and in relation to the status of private students, another assassination attempt has been smuggled into this bill. This proposal concerns a new 9/A. It proposes a section for the bill, which would make it mandatory, which would also lay down rules for the authorisation of alternative framework curricula. Obviously, my fellow Members, who are familiar with this issue, know that today's alternative framework plan can only be introduced with the Minister's special authorisation, so these are the only ways to deviate from the state framework, but it seems that the Minister is not reliable enough, and it is necessary for his hand to be bound by the legislator. As a result, it provides for two types of rules. On the one hand, it requires that the NAT be followed every six months and, on the other hand, it requires that only 30% of these framework curricula differ from the state-sanctioned master plan. Once again, this limits the authorisation of a minister, so the Minister cannot grant permission for a different master's plan. Of course, we consider the current structure of the entire framework curriculum to be wrong, but there has undoubtedly been a kind of peace situation in this area. So far, the situation has been that the alternative schools, whose framework curriculum and pedagogical programme do not correspond to this type of state framework, have been asked for and received a ministerial exemption from the framework; I would add, this has been the case in the previous pro-state period, these schools were allowed to operate separately. What you're doing now means, let alone pushing the education system back to 90, but I have to say, before the '70s. The regulation that you are introducing now, which makes it impossible for schools to operate which have been used for decades, and which are now going back to decades, does not meet the standards in which you want to put Hungarian education into place, this regulation is stricter, stupider and more damaging than in the 1990s, before the regime change. I would like to say that perhaps we should also project films on VOLT where the Prime Minister's alter ego today tells us that we are going back in front of 89, celebrating the end of this 30-year experiment on democracy, at least in education. That would be the honest thing to say, not the government propaganda where they're trying to mask the Prime Minister as a freedom hero. But to get back to the issue of education, what is it? The fact is, therefore, that you intend to ban the functioning of alternative schools in a law. Mr Secretary of State said that the aim here is not, in fact, to make alternative schools impossible, but to be in order. I am pleased to believe that he does not know what is going on in the details of public education, but I am sure that Mr State Secretary or Congresswoman knows very well what this proposal is about; they are very aware that this proposal is good for destroying alternative schools. I also think you know that, because if you didn't, you wouldn't have been slylyly submitted through the Legislative Committee. Because there should be no misunderstanding, do you not want to tell me that on Wednesday afternoon the pro-government members of the Legislative Committee met, and that many excellent educational professionals reviewed the operation of alternative schools, and decided to submit a pro-government proposal for the Thursday evening committee meeting at 4:00 p.m. on Wednesday afternoon to recommend the destruction of alternative schools. I think that none of us is naive enough to think that, rather, I think that you know clearly from the outset that this provision is an outrageous, scandalous and unacceptable provision, a provision which aims to strangle another possibility that would be designed to escape from the public education system that you are making less and less livable. Obviously, under the custom of Secretary of State Rétvári, he will tell you how bad it was before 2010 and will tell you how good it is now, according to what survey, only parents are voting with their feet on this educational system, and in order not to be able to vote with their feet and rescue the children from what you have made the public school system, they want to withdraw the rights that have allowed parents to choose their children. I have to say, this is outrageous, anti-childish, and, by the way, it's against the law. Thank you very much.
u2019-07-01-219	Thank you very much. Congressman Bence of Turdai, Dialogue, here you go.
u2019-07-01-220	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I can join my colleague Gergely Arató in practically everything. The fundamental problem is that the Legislative Committee is not a commission, it is not a matter for the majority of governments to push substantive proposals through Parliament. They would have liked to have brought it to the Committee on Culture, tabled an amendment by the pro-government representatives, if they considered this regulation so important, which, in fact, turned out on Thursday evening that it was the government's intention at all, and on which there is some uncertainty, because, frankly, so far, no sound justification has been heard or even one interpretation. [[18.20]] So let me quote Mr Bódis, when asked in this regard at the committee meeting, he said literally the following:. And to raise the question of alternative schools and at all of the framework curricula, I can say that the aim is not to work under strict, more difficult conditions, but under more orderly conditions. The fact that they have to work in two six months' working order and in a school schedule does not mean that there is an extra 30 percent room for manoeuvre as far as the curriculum structure is concerned. We trust that alternative schools, compared to NAT, will be able to find all aspects of their methodology. So far, the quote. I would very much like to believe the Secretary of State. I do not dispute his personal good intentions either, but the fact is that whoever wrote this amendment either thinks very differently or does not understand the area that is involved and which is regulated by the law. This 30 per cent difference compared to the State Framework Programme is both incomprehensible and unrespectable. I don't think whoever made this, who invented it, hasn't seen an alternative school up close, hasn't gotten to know their alternative master plan, or doesn't know what it is that can be measured in numbers, percentages, and what it isn't. If someone tells me what percentage of an apple is different from a pears, it will be a big surprise, and I will commend its performance, because it would be quite difficult for you to do so. Actually, I'm trying to be optimistic, I'm trying to assume that the Secretary of State didn't lie at the committee meeting. I also brought this literal quote in order to be included in the minutes of the plenary session. I would like to ask the pro-government authors, those responsible, the supporters, to take the opinion of the Secretary of State for Education as a matter of fact, this is the intention of the legislator, and accordingly, the amendment with such a text is withdrawn or deleted by a next amendment. Or is it perhaps the situation that my fellow Member, Mr Arató, suggested that you want to make alternative schools impossible? I'm curious to hear your answer.
u2019-07-01-221	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if someone else would like to speak in the remaining time frame. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Mr Secretary of State has already indicated that he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate, and obviously also to reflect. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-222	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President, and thank you very much for your speeches on behalf of everyone, on the part of the committees, the minority advocates and the Members. Prior to the submission of the bill, a special consultation was held with the national authorities, precisely to clarify all issues relating to maintenance rights and all other issues. I believe that this proposal did not really come here until after a conciliation. I have general comments on what has been said. The opposition today was very focused on the fact that Prime Minister's speech on the 30th anniversary of the change of regime was made at events where many people are present. I think it hurts you, especially the representatives of DK, because if we had played Ferenc Gyurcsány's speech in parallel from the same historical era [[Gergely Arató: You'd be amazed, Mr. Secretary of State, very much!]] I'd say they'd be pretty shocked. Although, obviously, the autumn speech is... [[Gergely Arató: Secretary of State would be more surprised, I think.]] Well, I think that as one of the main leaders of the pro-government organization of the then party of state called the Communist Youth Association, Ferenc Gyurcsány was on a slightly different side than Viktor Orbán, who took the stand in the name of freedom. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Wasn't he in the KIS?]] as he is now speaking [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Can't you hear this?]] any international forum. So it really hurts for you, because it's different to watch the Communist Youth Alliance change of regime, and it's different to fight the regime change in the Young Democrats Alliance. The other, which is typical in general, is that when a civil, national government wants order in some area, it is equal to dictatorship, according to the opposition's Balliberal philosophy, to a unified practice, order, predictability, transparency. So for them anarchy is freedom, and order equals dictatorship. However, we believe that for people, families, security can only be created by order, regulation, order, order, but, of course, so that there is no excessive regulation. You have seen our deregulation proposals here on Parliament's agenda several times, which are trying to rescind precisely these unnecessary overregulations. Then the few specific issues raised by our opposition fellow Members are issues relating to kindergarten. The bill approaches preschool in two directions. One is that, in fact, from the age of three, children go to kindergarten as many as possible. It's not in the state's primary interest, so to speak, or kindergartens, institutions, but children and families. After all, if a person is already in kindergarten at the age of three, on the one hand, his social and social abilities can develop much more, and on the other hand, if he is talented or behind in something compared to other children, it is better to find out at the age of three than when he was nine. Because if you find out at the age of three, you can care for your talent much sooner or compensate for your lack of development, and then you can reach the others and you won't be a problem around your graduation, that you've had a concentration or understanding of text, or other integration, learning, and behavioral difficulty of three years. Obviously you know that the sooner you recognize the problem, the easier it is to remedy it. And the other direction, I think, is that everyone can agree on common sense, so that the last year of kindergarten will be as much a pre-school year as possible, to promote the maturity of the school as much as possible. So I think this is also a direction that everyone can support in this amendment based on common sense and pedagogical professional arguments. Homeschool status. When someone approaches this bill, not with professional but political intent, and I am talking not only about politicians, but also about a lot of possible speakers or organisations calling themselves civilians and professionals, they are always saying that the status of private learner will cease. This will no doubt cease, but the possibility of an individual working order that is not a dissociative, not a different case-law, and therefore a legal option that often leads to abuse, but rather an individual working order is a single legal institution in the bill, which is in the interest of students; because it helps those who cannot attend school because of a foreign journey, help those who are top athletes and therefore cannot attend classes and help those who cannot attend classes due to illness. It just eliminates the possibility that if the school only wants to get rid of a student, because there are too many problems with him, he should not be able to get out of public education with the school, the whole school system, and he cannot even acquire eight general qualifications, let alone some kind of profession, some kind of secondary education. I believe that this is also a positive change by reason of common sense for everyone, and not another opportunity for stealth dictatorship, as you say. Study structure and framework curriculum. Indeed, this is already one of our proposals to be discussed today after the committee meeting. This is about the fact that the subject structure itself can vary by 30% in the individual, if you like, alternative master plan. Here we have to consider that there is still one kind of graduation at the end of secondary education. Everyone has to graduate the same degree. Everyone has to get there, on the one hand. On the other hand, some families move, or because of some other life situation, their children are sent from one school to another. It is important for the child to be able to pass through, since this is a matter for many families, and not to have the master plan, the material taught, the textbooks, and everything else, so that such a change can be difficult for the family to handle. A 30-percent derogation option is not a small possibility, if you look at legislation or education regulators in general, this is a wide-ranging derogation in the subject structure to quote the amendment proposal precisely. This therefore continues to open up the possibility to other methods, but it is in the best interests of students, that sooner or later graduation must be achieved, and that it cannot be if someone deviates from the National Basic Training Plan to such a degree that it deviates from the framework curriculum to a degree that may already jeopardise this. [[Gergely Arató: This has not been a problem for 30 years!]] [[18.30]] Indeed, no one is seeking to make any alternative school system impossible, just to keep children's interests in mind. It is not about strengthening or weakening a school system, but about obtaining the necessary knowledge and skills for children at school. I would like to draw attention to this, in particular, I believe that Congressman Tordai has also referred to this, but we have heard from DK, everyone else, that it is because of the need for such schools, that alternative schools are needed because of the need to rescue children from public education, and whoever has any responsibility for the child must flee from the system of public education. They may not have been here during the previous period, in the hours of questions, immediate questions and oral questions, but there we talked about the fact that the OECD's latest report, which was carried out in all developed countries, did not support your kind of alarms to the slightest extent, and even contraryly, they said that the Hungarian school system is even more capable of acquiring knowledge and transferring knowledge, and that the Hungarian teachers... [[Gergely Arató: Only these results do not justify it, Congressman, Mr Secretary of State, sorry.]] But, Congressman, this is what the OECD reports for everyone, this...
u2019-07-01-223	I'm sorry. Strange as it may be, the Secretary of State has the floor now, so let's try to respect that. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-224	Thank you very much. Perhaps the Member was also a State Secretary, and that is why he took on the opportunity to speak. Now, back to the OECD report. [[A statement from the opposition.]] It is precisely said that there is a greater field for knowledge transfer than in other developed countries, including because for example less is needed for discipline, obviously because the ground for integration of migrants in other countries is the school, this is not the case in Hungary, we have a greater opportunity to transfer knowledge, and we do not have to deal with discipline or cultural differences. Honourable Members, I therefore ask that if Hungarian students, starting from science competitions and other competitions at international level, have also achieved enormous success in the past academic year, that if the OECD statement says that we are not far behind the average, there are one or two issues in which we are actually below average. [[Gergely Arató: For example, the knowledge of students!]] Which is the treatment of long-term projects, for example, that is to teach a project view in schools and the like, but there is not much lag in this, only something visible in this, and in the transfer of knowledge we are above the average compared to other countries, you do not tell Hungarian parents what no moderate analysis other than their own home research institutes and their home sociologists tells them that anyone should be rescued from the Hungarian public education. In addition, if you look at the various numbers, you can also see that the number of graduates has also increased by 800, with the overall age group falling; we have also talked about the proportion of graduates. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] It is far closer to our commitments than it was before, so it is a good achievement of the Hungarian public education system, so don't give it any bad news, and I ask you to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-01-225	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's report on the delay in the entry into force of the Law on Administrative Courts follows a debate. The government referral is T/6295. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I'll ask the author, the Secretary of State, if you'd like to speak now. [[Tuzson on Bence's mark:]] It indicates that at the end. I'd like to inform you that you have ten minutes in total. I would like to inform you, Honourable Parliament, that the designated Justice Committee has not presented a rapporteur. Representatives will now take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I would like to ask you if someone would like to speak, honourable Members. [[No one's reporting.]] I suppose my question was clear and clear. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: Yes!]] 'Cause they're giving us a clear answer, and no one's gonna come forward. As no one has made themselves known, the debate is closed. According to form, I would ask the Secretary of State if he wished to reflect, perhaps less on the unspoken, but he has the right to express his opinion in a maximum of ten minutes. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-226	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Article E (1) of our Fundamental Law, which concerns the creation of European unity, and the fact that Hungary is involved in the creation of this unity, and the Treaty on Union also lays down the principle of loyal cooperation as one of the main principles, the Government has decided to postpone the entry into force of the above legislation. The seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law allowed administrative judicial action to be established in Hungary. This is a principle of law and a system of judicial justice, which has indeed been built on serious historical traditions in Hungary, and we wanted and would like to preserve this tradition in Hungary, because in 1949 this system, this tradition, ceased and was broken, since the communist regime had abolished the institutional system of administrative justice. Public administration is a specific judicial system, since it is quite different from the judicial system in the field of civil and criminal justice, there is a different legal relationship, a judicial review of a decision taken by a state and the State, where two interests, a public interest and a private interest conflict, and therefore special expertise must be in line with the administrative system. A balance is needed, a conflict of so-called subjective and objective legal protection must be resolved in this respect, which is completely different from a normal court system; accordingly, the majority of European courts or the majority of judicial systems dealt with this issue differently, there are countries in which the judicial system is partially separate, where the whole system is separate. Thus, using Hungarian judicial practice and its experience, there was a long process of law preparation in relation to administrative jurisdiction, the result of a five-year professional work was that a well-educated and well-made judicial system could have been created in Hungary, and we established the legal basis for this when we established the system of administrative jurisdiction. A two-level court system would be established under the new law. In the framework of the appeal or the review, the administrative decision-making procedure within the judicial system is provided for in the case of administrative superior courts. This transformation is significant because it can change the judicial system of the public administration in order not to review the appeal within the framework of the public administration, but also in the context of judicial proceedings. The regulation would therefore be based on an appropriate principle of equality, and it would also be appropriate to set up a judicial system, both by ensuring judicial independence and by establishing an effective system of organisations. What is very important in this case is that the Constitutional Court also examined this issue and took a decision on 18 June 2019 on the basis of which the judicial system would otherwise comply with the constitutionality of Hungary. International dialogue has also started on this issue, and several forums have examined the system of Hungarian legislation and the fact that this form of judicial action complies with European standards. The Venice Commission also had an opinion on this matter, which was, in the majority of it, a positive opinion, and the criticisms there were incorporated into the legislative process, so that it could have been a fundamentally positive opinion on this matter. At the same time, criticisms by various NGOs and by various European organisations, which are often hidden behind NGOs, are otherwise unacceptable, unfair and, moreover, unknowing of specific procedural legislation, have been formulated along the lines of the legislation. Hungary is an independent democratic rule of law and seeks to cooperate with its European institutions, and accordingly we also consider it important that, if a judicial system is established, the judicial system is not destroyed by the fact that various unfounded criticisms are worth a new legal institution, namely the institutional system of administrative jurisdiction. Accordingly, the Government of Hungary has decided to propose to the Hungarian Parliament to postpone the entry into force of this law, and to have further discussions, which, on the basis of consultations, can ultimately provide a satisfactory response to the otherwise totally unfounded criticisms. Accordingly, I ask the Honourable Parliament to adopt the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-01-227	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. [[18.40]] We now have the Commission's reports on the proposed amendment of the laws to the protection of the built and the natural environment and the cultural heritage protection and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. The government referral is T/6350. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in a 15-minute time frame, so I give the floor to MEP László Horváth, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-228	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 27 June 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/6350 on the modification of certain laws in relation to the protection of the built and natural environment and the protection of cultural heritage. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report were adopted by 24 votes in favour, no votes against, with 5 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The bill submitted by the Government affects, inter alia, the regulation of the built environment, such as the amendment of the Law on Construction and the Law on Normafa, the protection of the natural environment, such as the amendment of the Law on Land Planning and Property Registration, and the system of cultural heritage protection, such as the amendment of the Law on the Protection of World Heritage and Cultural Heritage. Building on these rules, it is possible to transform areas in degraded condition, typically contaminated with pollution, into areas that can be developed. The long-awaited amendment by the municipalities will ensure that the protection of buildings declared by representative bodies protected by a local regulation also appears legally on the property pages, thus making the value of the building widely available to the public. Dear House, The bill before us sets out as a priority the basic regulation for brownfield areas, the establishment of a clear regulatory environment for world heritage areas, the clarification of the rules of the Normafa Park Act, the establishment of legal rules on the returnability of cultural goods reclaimed from the basic inventory of public collections of public or local authorities, a museum institution, as well as the clarification of the land use and zone rules of the law on spatial planning plans for Hungary and certain priority areas, and the inclusion of the national monument. Dear House, I think that it is important for all of us to protect the culture and natural conditions of our country, and I therefore ask you to support the proposal that has been tabled with your votes. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-01-229	Thank you very much. Now I'm going to ask the author, Mr. Secretary of State, if you'd like to speak to me. [[For signal:]] It indicates that the item is at the end of the agenda. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. Anybody want to tell me? [[No one indicates his intention to comment.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is therefore closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he'd like to give his opinion. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-230	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The current legislation is a major amendment to the built environment. It amends 13 laws, which are many laws in number, but also relates to one subject. So it is important that we treat the transformation of the built environment in a uniform way, and when we touch this area, the amendments to the law should be consistent with the related legislation. That is what this legislation is all about. The congressman has spoken of his main provisions. By the way, 21 amendments were tabled, 20 of which were received by the Legislative Committee. Allow me to mention some of the major amendments. This is a simple announcement amendment, which means construction activities that can start with simple announcements; here we can talk about strengthened regulation at government regulation level in the next period. The use of the necessary designer and foreman may now be placed at the level of a government decree, and the government will be empowered to establish the detailed rules of this. The amendment to the Mining Act is still significant in relation to the previous ones, and here the amendment is interesting in relation to coal-producing mines. This is an incentive change in order not to open new mining sites for coal mining companies, but to exploit sites that are already designated as mining sites to protect our environment and even recultivate the unpaid mining fee. The Member spoke about clarifying and simplifying legislation on resture. All I would like to note here is that this current legislation opens up the possibility that the Minister may decide to repeat the previous procedure, and it is also an important question that, of course, only the Minister will decide on the issue of property, and in any case the court will decide on the issue of law. It sets out in another legislative framework, within the framework of legislation on museum institutions, the circle which is included as a budget and where employment can be created instead of a public employment relationship. Otherwise, this will not be an opportunity for the head of the body, but for the government, in the new legislation. Indeed, the changes to world heritage are significant changes, and the management plan for world heritage sites is a very important legislative and legislative act, if this is to be brought within a legislative framework. Clarification of the design of these management plans is very important in order to preserve world heritage sites, which is also included in the current legislation. Overall, therefore, we are talking about a major amendment of a comprehensive nature. Accordingly, this legislation is capable of protecting our environment, both our built environment and our natural environment, to a greater extent in the future. Accordingly, I would also ask my fellow Members to support the legislative amendment, the bill. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-07-01-231	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws relating to media services and the discussion of the summary amendment follow up. The government referral is T/6355. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. Ms Mónika Dunai, rapporteur for the committee, she is the one who has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-232	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 27 June 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed T/6355 amending certain laws relating to media services. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 24 votes in favour, 3 against and 2 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill we are discussing here contains several amendments. One of the main elements of the amendments is legal harmonisation. We need to transpose the EU directive on audiovisual media services into the Hungarian legal order and to bring it into line with domestic legislation. In addition, the proposal includes amendments proposed by the regulatory authority on the basis of practical experience and which increase efficiency, as well as new types of media instruments that have been highlighted in recent years. On the basis of the draft, the personal data of minors will be better protected in the future. Your personal data will not be processed for commercial purposes. The broadcasting of programmes for minors under the age of 14 cannot be interrupted in the future if the law is adopted by television purchases. The programme for minors under the age of 14 for more than 30 minutes published in the linear audiovisual media service may be interrupted only once per 30-minute period, including the duration of advertisements and pre-shows. It is important to point out that, if the law is adopted, the obligation for persons with disabilities is also increased. [[18.50]] Ladies and gentlemen, The draft also has elements to reduce administrative burdens. Currently, a 35-percent television, a 40-percent audience radio, cannot launch a new media service and is obliged to take measures to improve the diversity of the media market by modifying its programming structure. An exception would be the amendment for the public media service provider and the thematic and community service provider. In addition, the draft would change the period of eligibility for television and radio to 10 plus 7 years. In addition, as regards news programmes, the purpose of the amendment is to ensure a non-interruptible news programme, in the case of major service providers and in prime time. Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, it is important to note the royalty amendment that the royalty after repetition remains. However, the existing legislation is being amended. The essence of this is that a management organisation can charge a fee or charge only once. All subsequent royalties will have to be paid in full by performers and rightholders in the future. Thus, costs can also be reduced and performance artists' aspects will be taken into account. Ladies and gentlemen, To sum up, these are legislative amendments which provide greater protection for minors, greater support for people with disabilities, take into account technological changes and, last but not least, can bring more efficient, predictable operation on the Hungarian media market. Ladies and gentlemen, In the final vote, I would also like to ask you to support the bill tabled on the basis of these considerations. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-07-01-233	Thank you very much. I'll ask the author, Mr. Secretary of State, if you'd like to speak now. [[For signal:]] It indicates that at the end. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. I would like to inform you that this is now the time frame for the speeches by the Members. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. Congressman János Volner has applied for a speech, independent. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-234	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to an interesting phenomenon in relation to this law. That the world of political actors, political actors, now includes not only political parties and certain media players, but also media service providers who hold social media in their hands and exercise control over billions of people. I am thinking in particular of Facebook, Google and similar giant companies. I believe that the involvement of these giant companies in both taxation, public burdens and their subordination to Hungarian legislation is becoming increasingly important, and it seems that these proposals have been overlooked by the government over the past few years. I am thinking in particular, fellow Members, that, for example, at President Trump's campaign, it was possible to see that Deep State, i.e. the shadow government or shadow power, had an extraordinary influence on the functioning of the state through similar companies. In recent times, we have also learned about where Google, where Facebook has been quite segmented between political views, various measures and new guidelines that have affected certain content with moderation, such as the Facebook page of László Toroczkai with a follow-up number of 207 thousand, as many anti-immigration, public figures with right-wing conservative values, have fallen victim to it in the same way. I can see that the government is practically doing nothing in this case. Liberal opinion terrorism, my fellow Members, is a safe place to talk about liberal opinion terrorism in this case. In France, President Macron, a friend of Mr Zuckerberg, the owner of Facebook, informed the public that he had asked one of his colourful state secretary with legal qualifications to draw up a bill on identity policy, giving priority protection to various minorities. Facebook is obviously threatened by an accomplice wink with Mr Zuckerberg that if Facebook does not remove certain homophobic, racist and other content within 24 hours, it will be punished by the law up to 4 percent of its turnover. I find this particularly serious because I was not afraid of Facebook, because obviously there is a collusion between the political and an economic player who is also making politics. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I had three minutes, Mr. President?
u2019-07-01-235	A little less, but you've gone beyond that, so I'm asking for your understanding. Anybody else want to tell me? [[For signal:]] Yeah. What a surprise. Congressman János Volner, independent. Yes, before you begin, I would like to inform you that there are timeframes here, and you are an independent Member, and you have already completed the time frame for the independents on your own. So... [[János Volner: I understand, Mr President.]] Thank you so much, I'm not going to continue with the explanation. With friendship, sit down. Anybody else want to tell me? [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. Mr Secretary, as you indicated at the beginning of the item, it is now possible to express your opinion. Here.
u2019-07-01-236	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. One of the root causes of the changes to the media law is the harmonisation of EU law. The EU Directive on audiovisual services should be transposed into the Hungarian legal order. There are also proposals in this bill that the Hungarian regulatory authority has advocated in terms of more efficient operation, as well as proposals that are justified by the emergence of new types of technologies. In this regard, in response to Mr Volner's speech, I think it is important to have an in-depth dialogue on the role of digital giant companies, monopolies, oligopolises, whatever they are called, and there are several important aspects, such as paying taxes or avoiding them, misuseing their dominant position in any way, or, as is just as important, because it is freedom of opinion, ensuring that all world views and opinions have access. So if you want to have a stronger dialogue in this area, we are very much in favour of this because it is a fundamental debate of the future. I would also like to briefly describe how the bill was amended at the Commission stage. First, I'm gonna start with two of those that got more publicity. On the basis of the amendment, collecting societies should not deduct management costs from repeated broadcasts so as to ensure that royalties are received directly by performers. Secondly, as regards the protection of minors: legislation on the protection of minors and on pornographic content will be even stricter, the Media Council will be able to carry out controls under official authority and, in the event of infringements, the non-compliance call for sanctions will not be used, and in each case, prohibitions and legal consequences should apply. The amendments also delete the obligation to offer media service providers to media distributors, and the amendments determine the salary of the heads of the NMHH and the Media Council. Here the principle was to ensure that there were no excessive differences between the salaries of the supervisory body and the directors of the supervised actors. It will be easier to get a network connection and expand the reception area, and I would also like to note that accessibility requirements will enter into force later: 19 September 2020, which, on the one hand, leaves sufficient time for preparation and is still within the deadlines laid down in the directive. Overall, the bill, along with the amendments, takes account of EU harmonisation obligations, technological changes, provides greater protection for minors, and we intend to make the proposal more efficient and predictable in the media market. For these reasons, it is worth supporting by Members. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-07-01-237	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. [[19.00]] Dear Parliament, The discussion of the Commission's report on the number of posts to be held at the Hungarian Defence Office will follow. The government referral is H/6454. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I'll ask the author, Mr. Secretary of State, if you'd like to speak now. [[For signal:]] It says no. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Defence and Police Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. I would like to inform you that there is no possibility of a two-minute comment during this debate. Dear Parliament, I'll ask you guys if there's anyone you'd like to tell me. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. I'm going to ask Mr. Secretary of State if you'd like to speak to me. [[István Szilárd Németh: No, thank you.]] He wisely notes that there is nothing to reflect on, so we will overlook that now. So I will inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, In order to provide for a tax exemption for procedures relating to the application for a baby shower allowance and to aid for the acquisition of motor cars for large families, the 1990 XCIII on levies follows. a joint debate on a proposal to amend law. The government referral is T/6684. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that according to the House Rules adopted, a total of 15 minutes for opening speech and closing speech, 6 minutes for speaking by the Legislative Committee, 3 minutes for presenting the minority opinion, a total of 10-10 minutes for speaking by the political groups, 3 minutes for speaking by the independent Member. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Tuzson, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the item on the agenda. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have a total period of 15 minutes to present the opening speech and the possible closing phrase in the debate. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-238	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In 2010 in Hungary, the desire to start a family and have children was at a low point, and there were several reasons for this at the time. On the one hand, the socialists abolished the former home creation system, pushed a large part of the Hungarian families into foreign exchange loans, in 2005 the government of Ferenc Gyurcsány abolished the tax relief of families with one and two children, and the three children were radically reduced, and the socialists significantly shortened the duration of the child. As the first measure of the Hungarian Government in 2010, the Orbán government restored its three-year-old institution. Accordingly, the current government has changed its position and attitude towards families and has become committed to supporting Hungarian families. In 2019, HUF 2000 billion has already been allocated to family support, which is double the amount that Hungary spent on this in 2010. One million Hungarian families were helped by the family tax relief, and the first married people's tax relief affects more than 50,000 couples each year. In 2014, the ged extra also came into force, which allows mothers to work alongside children and children from the age of one year and from 2016 onwards from the age of six months. An important change was also the sisterhood, which allows the benefit to be passed on to the next child or the next child to be born. At the same time, your diplomat was an important measure. One of the most important measures was the establishment of a new home creation system, which enabled them to receive a state grant of up to HUF 10 million for three or more children, if they wanted to buy a new apartment or build a house, and even became eligible for a discount loan of HUF 15 million. In the case of two children, the loan with a discount interest rate of HUF 10 million is also provided, so the two children also received serious discounts. Since its introduction in 2015, more than 100,000 families have applied for a family home-building discount, and this was a HUF 300 billion grant. The CSOK has already facilitated the housing of 420 thousand people and has contributed to 50,000 children in scale. It is important to note that the family support system is also closely linked to the Hungarian village, which helps us to keep the village important in the future and to preserve the Hungarian village and to develop the Hungarian village.The so-called village CSOK is also a special help in the system of family home creation from 1 July, in which the HUF 10 million non-refundable grant can be used not only for the construction of a new apartment or apartment, for the construction of a house, but also for the purchase and expansion of a used apartment. CSOK can therefore also be used for expansion and renovation, and the measure also affects approximately 2500 Hungarian settlements, so a significant part of Hungary's small settlements and small settlements with declining population. In addition, from January a tax refund of HUF 5 million will be possible if someone builds a new residential property or even expands a used residential property or renovates it. The government's very important new measure is the Family Protection Action Plan, which will enter into force on 1 July 2019, which will offer a loan of HUF 10 million free of interest to young married people, the preferential CSOK loan can be used for apartments already used. From the birth of the second child, 1 million mortgage loans can be released from the birth of the third child and 4 million mortgage loans from the birth of the third child, and car purchase benefits can also be put in place, which help large families seriously. As of 1 January 2020, a new measure will be introduced, the life-long ban for mothers who have taken up four children and also for grandparents. By 2022, 21,000 new cradle seats will be created. As a result of the new measures introduced from 2010, there has been a significant increase in childbearing in Hungary. The fertility rate, i.e. showing how many children a pregnant woman has, was 1.25 in 2010 and has now risen to 1.5 in 2018 and 19 respectively, which represents an increase of 20 percent, i.e. a significant change compared to 2010. Of course, we have to go further on this path, because it is possible to maintain a society if this rate reaches 2.1. In order to do this, it is necessary that we here in the Parliament, I could also say that perhaps, by bringing together all the Members of Parliament, we can move forward on the path of encouraging support for the family in Hungary, encouraging childbearing and as many as possible having children in Hungary. Dear Parliament, The current bill contains an amendment to the tax law. It shall extend the scope of the tax exemption in the case of the issuing of an official certificate certifying the existence of the social security status required for the baby shower allowance where such a decision is taken by the district offices. Accordingly, the exemption can already apply in this area, as compared to other institutions of the family support scheme. In fact, there is also a clarification in connection with the acquisition of a car, which means that the application can be submitted free of charge at the customer services of the Hungarian Treasury and at the government windows, i.e. the procedure will not have a charge, and the related procedure will be free of charge. We would like to draft this current legislation, and I would ask my fellow Members to support it accordingly, so that all these changes can be used as of 1 July in such a way that those who have already submitted their applications can apply this rule in the ongoing procedures, or who may have paid the previous levy, will be able to refund this amount to those who have already submitted their applications. I would ask my fellow Members, with these measures, to help support Hungarian families, to increase the desire to start a family in Hungary, and the desire to have children. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-01-239	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that you have 7 minutes and 50 seconds if you wish to speak at the end of the debate. The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go. [[19.10]]
u2019-07-01-240	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 1 July 2019, i.e. today, the Legislative Committee discussed, in derogation from the House Rules of the Decision, the application for baby shower support and XCIII of 1990 on levies in order to provide for the exemption of the procedures for the granting of aid for the acquisition of motor cars by large families. T/6684. Bill No. 1. The summary report was adopted unanimously by 30 votes in favour. Ladies and gentlemen, From 1 July, the four points of the family protection action plan will enter into force: the baby shower support, the expansion of the CSOK, the extended version of the loan waiver, as well as the car purchase support for large families. The bill before us allows claimants to use baby shower support and car shopping support for large families free of charge. Our aim is to remove as many bureaucratic obstacles as possible, as difficult elements as possible, from achieving benefits under the family protection action plan. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of what has been said, I would ask you to support the bill in the final vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-01-241	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 10-10 minutes, and the independent Members have a total of 3 minutes. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Mónika Dunai, who is speaking this time, representing the opinion of the Fidesz faction. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-242	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The family protection action plan will help young people start their lives, have children and raise children with new support. The Action Plan was drawn up with a view to the results of the national consultation. It's not a closed process. We want to extend the aid year after year in the future. We imagine Hungary's future, not with immigrants, but with Hungarian children and with the support of families with children. Among other things, the government, with the Family Protection Action Plan, says that raising children is a performance that should be recognised at Community level. In the Parliament, the opposition will once again have the opportunity to decide whether or not to join the Hungarian families, Hungarian children and families with Hungarian children. In Europe, Hungary spends the most money to support families. Compared to 2010, we are already spending two and a half times more, HUF 2228 billion in the next year's draft budget for this purpose, which is almost 5 percent, 4.8 percent of our GDP, which is also unique throughout Europe and the world. As a result, children's awareness has increased significantly by 21 percent since 2002. Desire therefore exists, childishness and the government provide support for this with the tools available. The vast majority of people support family protection measures. In the case of support for families, there is a national unity in Hungary. The vast majority of Europe lives their lives in a traditional way and considers the family to be the most important value, but we know that there are those who disagree with the current Hungarian government proposals. The biggest problem in Western Europe is that they treat the issue of family support as taboo and only deal with how they compensate for the deficit caused by falling birth rates, but do not ask the real question, which is why the population decline is reduced. Ladies and gentlemen, From today, as has been said several times today, four points in the family protection action plan are being put in place: baby shower support, the expansion of the CSOK, the extended version of the waiver of mortgage loans and the promotion of car shopping for large families. The cradle development programme is in progress. By 2022, we decided to increase the number of cradle seats above 70,000 from the current 50,000. With the launch of the seven-point family protection action plan, the government is helping families with children, young people start their lives, have children and raise children. From 1 January 2020, we will introduce the four- or more-children's mother's absence and grandparents' children. Anyone who has a baby after 1 July becomes eligible for baby shower support. We are ready to launch baby shower support smoothly on 1 July. Families who are waiting for their child in July will not fall out of baby shower support. Under the new Government Decree, the aid may not be used for contracting but for children born after the submission of the claim. Moreover, for children born in July, it is also okay to submit the application after the birth of the child. These measures will further simplify the use of aid. Ladies and gentlemen, This bill also serves this purpose. With the current planned amendment of the tax law, there will be no tax-free provision for the issuing of the certificate of formality for the provision of the baby's guarantee, as well as the procedures for redress and fairness relating to the aid. So not only can banks charge customers no costs or fees in connection with the request for baby shower support, but also district offices. This is a decision and a proposal that is part of the logic of bureaucracy reduction. The same applies to car procurement aid for large family members. The amendment makes it clear that the request for support can be submitted free of charge at the customer services of the Hungarian Treasury and at government windows. The aid will also apply to applications made on 1 July, so the district offices either do not charge the customers a procedural levy or make the procedural levy already paid reclaimable through the National Tax and Customs Office. Ladies and gentlemen, We believe on the part of the Fidesz faction that this is a package that defines Hungary's future and complements it with the baby shower support and the family protection action plan, which contributes to helping families, childbearing and child rearing in Hungary by all means, and that we can help the population processes in Hungary move in a positive direction. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-01-243	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr. Dániel Z. Carpathian Congressman Jobbik, here you go.
u2019-07-01-244	Mr President, Dear House, From group dynamics, I feel like no one wants to spend the whole night here, but I'm gonna have to get stuck on this issue. During the fidesz intros we can hear a lot of things, at the minimum reference level of the proposal before us, allow me to take that horizon a little wider. There should be a debate between us right now. During the introduction of my fellow lead speaker, we heard about the parade of demographic processes in Hungary and started a process, a direction that will be positive and even more positive in the future; this is how I could summarize what you have to say. The fact is that I have to argue with this, and I wish I didn't have to argue with you, because I am very, very sincere and wholeheartedly rooting for the right direction for demographic indicators in Hungary. [[19.20]] Let's see what happened in Hungary. Following the partial destruction of the social-liberal amok run and the family support system, the rejuvenation that had been delayed ten years earlier in several countries, not in Hungary, in terms of the increase in fertility rates in the countries of the region, has been due to a number of other factors since the Bokros package. This process, called replacement by the profession, which fired the fertility index up to 1.7 or above in the countries of the region, occurred later in Hungary, fortunately after 2010, but with much more braked foaming, so we have never been near 1.7. This indicator went up to 1.54, according to the EU methodology, at the peak it was here a year and a half ago. This 1.54 has fallen to 1,43-44 percent in the last year and a half. I wish that was not the case, I wish this setback hadn't happened, but this gives Hungary's Government the opportunity to think about what he's doing wrong. After all, three important indicators indicate the demographic situation. The last thing I want from you is the number of live births. So I do not agree with the fact that socialist DK representatives stand up and say that, compared to the previous ten years, 50 thousand fewer children were born, this is the crime of the current government, so drop it and get the hell out of here. I do not believe that this issue could be approached in such a poor way, since the base of women of childbearing age, their number, has fallen radically over the last ten years, with Balliberal responsibility and, indeed, after nine years, there is Fidesz-KDNP responsibility. But the number of live births is where this government has negative records, and the number of deaths is brutally high. Here, perhaps, the easiest way to intervene is to reduce the number of avoidable deaths, and, in addition, the fertility index, yes, is a very important indicator of where the people's soul is within a nation, and how the whole of this nation understands its own survival. And I'm gonna have to argue with you here because the fertility rate could increase. By the way, if you look at some of the Baltic States, you've gone over 1.7 without such a sophisticated family support system. So at least that's how much everyday security matters, the question of a predictable future. But what we see in Hungary is that certain social groups are rightly benefiting from this government. I'm also in favour of family tax incentives, even if, let's say, family tax breaks froze in the direction of two children. [[Towards the ranks of the governing parties:]] However, it has been frozen because, according to the current bill, there is an amount of an ICS, which will not increase from the next year after inflation, because the government has failed to pass the law providing for it, so the Government of Hungary has frozen the system. I want you to look into this and correct it, because I want you to do the right thing, and I want you to fix this government mischief. Which is why we're here tonight to clarify why we're here. Because the implementation of a demographic package has started, I think it has been with a braked foam compared to what could have happened, and Fidesz-KDNP has forgotten that these processes, credit placements, or the placement of a reduced loan, are indeed subject to a levy in some cases, and they have forgotten to grant a tax exemption for these grants to be granted from 1 July, so on Friday night they have come to the mind to provide partial or full guarantee of the tax exemption, so that on Monday, on the day of entry into force, when it should be paid to children born today, and it is appropriate to do so in a rapid debate, which typically lacks professionalism with such time limits, or at least restricts it to accept the proposal that should otherwise have been granted, and I think that there should be much wider discounts. What do I mean? My fellow Members have said, for example, how big it is for women with four children to have no personal income tax for the rest of their lives, and I think that this is a big deal. My problem is with you, and yes, I have a problem with Fides, that I also heard your original promise more than a year ago. This concerned the absence of sia for mothers with three children, and there we would no longer find a social group of 30-40,000, like for four children, but a much wider one, so that it could also prevail at national level in the population indicators we are talking about. For 30-40 thousand four-year-olds, if the Secretary of State examines how many of them are currently engaged in measurable jobs, how many of them are registered, he sees that their share is small. So this discount sounds great, it can be very well performed in Parliament, in studios, but it affects a few thousand, one or two ten thousand people. The same problem is that I have a problem with your party once again with regard to attitude, when in the case of car shopping discount for large family members only this discount is applied to brand new vehicles, while this is not the typical Hungarian life situation. This discount should also be extended to the use of used motor vehicles with the necessary minimum technical parameters, so that Hungarian families in typical living situations can make use of it in bulk. If this were to happen, this could have an impact on population indicators. What I expect of you. They plowed the state leg of housing savings because they said that this was for intermediary companies, which is a legitimate basis for debate. This debate can be held. Instead, you've plowed this system in a few days, but what's more, you haven't put anything in its place. So I would like to hear a concrete response to the fact that the person from whom LTP's state support was taken and who, let's say, has collected the own share of CSOK with pre-housing housing savings, is now proposing how this Hungarian youth should collect its own share of CSOK, because if he can enter there, he will have realistic life opportunities. If not, then the emigration that you no longer acknowledge will remain, since you lie and know that it is not true that the migration balance has turned and more people will return home than the number of people leaving. A person with competence in any profession knows that this statement is not true, because among the emigrants, only the publisher of this statement who liquidated his place of residence, handed in his social security card, cut the lines, roots, and left here. You know very well that most people aren't like that. You know very well that the former foreign exchange lenders here work in the Dutch slaughterhouse to pay their unrealistic loans here, now converted to HUF. And they haven't stopped their relationships here, and it's still true for hundreds of thousands of people. Denying this is simply an economic policy betrayal, and this is also seen in demographic indicators. As the lack of a rental program can be seen on the demographic indicators, because the government has seen it cheaper to say that it only supports own property, because it is possible to exclude the promotion of a full social group, for young Hungarians who do not have any means to afford a separate property, an independent home, even on credit, even in the midst of a reduced debt, but would pay a fair price. And the government has still done nothing about the runaway housing situation in Budapest and large cities, even though there would be an obligation to intervene here, if nothing else, temporarily a housing aid scheme. I do not mean the Berlin sample, and I do not mean the price freeze, because that would be completely contrary to the market economy, but we would have alternative tools. So I could accept what is in front of us in a package, and I will still support it, because we are talking about a tax exemption here, but the whole package is not fully effective, especially as long as 27 percent of the VAT on child-rearing products is VAT. We have submitted to the budget the amendment that would bring this VAT down to 5%, making a substantial concession for Hungarian families. I do not have to share the fate of this with you, and this proposal has also bled to death. What I see is that the support of the flask baby program without a hat, without waiting lists, has not passed your filter either. I draw the conclusion from this that the question of populationization for you is a political product, and there is no real national determination and will behind it, as my community has been characterised since 2010, because we have been presenting these proposals since 2010. You're using brake foam to get through what can be sold as a political product. In the name of the Hungarian future, I would like to ask you to open this door wider, and indeed to ensure our own survival in the Carpathian Basin on your own strength, and not from outside sources, not from your guest workers, with your foreign workers, to replace the resulting void, not to lie about the existence of emigration, but to resolve the fact that anyone who wants to can thrive in their homeland. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-07-01-245	Thank you very much. The next speaker was Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, representative of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party. Here.
u2019-07-01-246	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I would say to my fellow Member, Jobbik, that we have never said that the situation is excellent, that we have achieved the goal of perfect demographic indicators. You've never heard such words from pro-government politicians. We said that in 2010, we took over a catastrophic demographic situation and family policy, and that as a result of the family-friendly turn in 2010, there are positive and encouraging signs, and we are far from at the end of the road, and we also have a lot to do in the future. But it is precisely the improvement of family-friendly public thinking, the revision of the family policy system, the extension of the family support system that has caused a positive shift in Hungarian society, which has been showing an increase in fertility rates, an increase in marriage numbers, a decrease in divorce rates, a decrease in the number of abortions since 2010. [[19.30]] These are all shifts, which you cannot deny, and which are positive and encouraging signs. We have to go this way. That is why it is important that we have this bill before us today, which makes the lives of families easier, and that is why I was pleased that today at noon, when we had to vote on the derogation from house rules, all the factions unanimously supported this. This was not always the case, because a few weeks ago, when we voted on the family protection action plan, the party of Gyurcsány on the far left and the anarchist faction, Dialogue did not support the family protection action plan and did not support Hungarian families getting a little more money, more support, additional programs, grants and preferential schemes. Because what did we see before 2010? The primary target of the restrictions of the Gyurcsány government was always families raising children: they abolished the family tax system, started with the one and two children, gave the three children 4 thousand forints tax relief, abolished the home creation programs, reduced the duration of the child from three years to two years, and made the lives of Hungarian families difficult by kindergarten, school and nursery closure. This is why in 2010 the family-friendly turn of events, as a result of which we have brought back the family tax system, we have constantly expanded the family tax system, we have launched the family home creation programme, the ged extra or the family protection action plan that has entered into force today. The baby shower support, the interest-supported loan linked to the family home creation discount, the extended version of the waiver of mortgage loans, as well as the support of the car purchase of large family members are now available and can be used by families from today, as the starting date of this is July 1st, today, based on our joint decision. So I think that today is a very important day in the history of Hungarian family policy, that these subsidies and discounts are available. The four children's personal income tax exemption and the grandparents' gyed will enter into force next January. I would also like to correct my fellow Member, Mr Kárpát: here we are talking about at least 40,000 households for families with four children; he spoke of 10-15 thousand mothers. There are 40,000 who will be affected immediately, because the four - child allowance is not valid in a system that does not go up, and there are those who will come into the four - child group. So we're talking about 40,000 of these households now. Cradle seats are constantly growing. Here's the goal, as the congresswoman has already said, is to increase 70,000 seats. This has started, and we will achieve the target this year, also next year, and then we will expand the nursery network for as long as we need it. It is also very important that the bill before us today provides for a tax exemption for car shopping support for large family members and for the administration of baby shower support. I must also tell my better fellow Member here that we will at least admit it if something has not yet been resolved and bring it here in time, as it will also apply to those who have been born today, or who today require baby shower support or car shopping support for large families, or in the next few days until this law is published, and it will become concrete legislation. I think it will be further easier for families to see that the administration, on the one hand, the Secretary-General Tuzson, has worked hard to ensure that the necessary request and the administration of the government window are also a very fast and very simple process, and I would like to highlight the reduction of bureaucracy now not only as a simple and rapid process, but also as a free process for families. The extended version of the loan waiver will also start today. Here at the time of the loan repayment, the second child was born with HUF 1 million and then at the birth of the third child, HUF 4 million of mortgage loan waivers are included in the family protection action plan. I think it is also a huge support and support for car shopping for large families: if the family raises at least three children in this situation, or the mother is expecting her third child, the family can receive HUF 2.5 million in non-refundable support for the purchase of a new seven-man car. The family protection action plan is a historic-scale family support measure, action plan, which, I think, serves the support of Hungarian families on the one hand, the strengthening of Hungarian families on the other hand, and it is clearly not a secret goal for us to continue to promote children's commitment, so that couples can make their own decisions regarding childbearing in all cases. To do so, we can provide the framework, the help, and the ability of the desired children to be born in all cases, because our goal is to have as many children as possible. Today, the third-fourth child's commitment does not automatically mean poverty, as it was during the Balliberal Governments, but with the family policy of Fidesz-KDNP there is already a stable family support system behind families. The KDNP fraction therefore supports the proposal that is now in front of us. Thank you very much.
u2019-07-01-247	Thank you very much. The thing is now, dear Congressman Nacsa, that you are the only one who has asked to speak, but you have just finished. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: My computer didn't turn off...]] We get it already. Then this thing is cleared up, so we're moving slowly towards the end. Small hopes in life are very important to remember. I'll ask if someone else would like to speak in the remaining time frame. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. The consolidated debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he'd like to reflect, give his opinion. [[Tuzson on Bence's mark:]] Here you go. You have seven minutes and 50 seconds.
u2019-07-01-248	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I consider the fundamental issue raised very important, which was a question of support for families and the growth of children's desire. It has also come from the right-hand speech and from my fellow Member Mr Lőrinc Nacsa's speech that we are indeed committed to increasing the desire to have children in Hungary, although I think that the measures will be assessed in a very different way from the opposition benches and from here, from the pro-government benches. I think that the trend is the most important and that trends should be monitored in Hungary. It is necessary to see if there has been a population turnaround, and if it has happened, when it has happened. It is quite clear that the process has changed since 2010. Otherwise, in the countries listed by him, the population ratio was going down in that period, so we are not talking about the fact that in Hungary, let's say, the trends in Europe have been followed by population change, but some measures have changed the trend, and this is a good news. It must not be forgotten that the Hungarian Government has taken action to this end, and has taken a lot of measures. I consider the introduction of a home-building support scheme to be one of the most important measures for families, so the family home-building benefit is a measure of family policy which is not much in Europe, by the way. That is why it can be seen that this effect was quite powerful in Hungary and could indeed have contributed to the birth of 50,000 children. Not to mention that this also helped create jobs in Hungary, so it also indirectly helped Hungarian families. We must not stop in this process until Hungary has the power to maintain its own population; this is what we must strive for. This is what the family protection action plan is about, there was no serious action plan of this kind in Hungary before. All ideas and ideas must be considered in this respect, but they must be included in such a family protection action plan that is most effective in helping, helping families and increasing childbearing. We ourselves believe that the measures we have taken so far are effective measures, but we are not yet at the end of the road. That is why there are measures that will enter into force after 2019, and even nursery-building programmes, preschool-building measures that cover a longer-term package of measures. It is indeed an important question that we pay attention to all the details, and it is therefore important to create a tax exemption, whether in terms of object or otherwise, that we are talking about tax exemptions. I ask my fellow Members to support this measure, as part of the package, in order to strengthen families in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-01-249	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you that the decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. [[19.40]] Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First of all, after the agenda, Ms Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, representative of Jobbik, applied for a speech with the title of the public servants who deserve more. His time frame is five minutes. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-250	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On the occasion of Semmelweis Day, today, at the beginning of the meeting, we thanked health workers for the sacrifice they have done for us, for Hungarian people and for society. But I do not think that we can go beyond the fact that 1 July is not only Semmelweis Day, but also the day of civil servants and government officials. Since 1997, on 1 July, we thank officials who work under very poor working conditions under very difficult wage conditions. As of 2011, we will hold 1 July as not only civil servants, but also government officials. It has been an important measure in the past period, from 2001 to 15 years: this day was a public holiday for civil servants until 2016. I think it is important that the abolition of this public holiday was a signal from the Orbán government about what it holds civil servants for. And perhaps this was a step towards launching what is now happening among civil servants in government windows, mayor's offices, joint municipal offices. The government now does not deny or even convene crisis councils in order to resolve the current shortage of workers in the offices. In recent days, there has been a rumor that government windows cannot be kept open here in Budapest, and the government has responded to this as maintenance work, and, by the way, today a fellow Member has asked the government as a question, where they have repeatedly replied that government windows have not been opened due to maintenance work. However, since 1 March, there has been a very serious trend among civil servants, as even the union that brought them together has said and said that there are four thousand workers missing from this sector. It's 4,000 employees they could hire right away if they applied there. One important step, which also contributed to this trend, was that on 1 March 2500 requests for immediate dismissal were made as a result of a legislative change. 'Cause what happened? Raised working hours, increased labour costs, and at the same time a reduction in the fundamental freedom of the workforce, civil servants, has been achieved. You don't really think that if we just go a few hundred kilometers away, as a sink, we'll make more money than those civil servants who work in the offices, these wages in Hungary can work with heart and soul in such working conditions? By the way, I'm surprised this number stopped at 2,500. But you can see the trend, and you can see that the operation of the steering windows is becoming increasingly critical. Referring a little back to the previous agenda, when the general debate was about the exemption from tax on the application for baby shower subsidies, they also said how good it is to be able to handle these issues at government windows, and how this will speed up this process. Yeah, I'm just asking, if you don't work at the government windows, or if this line is so large, how are you going to speed up the administration so that young couples who want to use baby shower support can get their money as soon as possible. And one more thing I would like to say is that today's press news is that they believe that the operation of the Budapest government windows will be solved by relocation, that the employees will be relocated. I ask you: is this a family policy measure? Is it that someone will have to travel a lot of miles to work, just like they didn't have to do before? Thank you very much. And once again, thank the civil servants for the day of civil servants. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-07-01-251	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP László Hajdu, representative of the Democratic Coalition, has applied for a post-municipal speech. It's an address. Here you go.
u2019-07-01-252	Mr President, Colleagues! On the 15th of June, the school school was finished on Friday, and the very expected two months begin for the children, during which the children deal not with learning, but really with rest and freedom. What I'm asking for is that it's related to who, after the ten-month school year, is dealing with the children in those two months during the summer period. The KLIK closes the door because the school year is over. Who's gonna have these kids the two months the parent's working, the teacher's resting? What happens to the children of a district, say, a school district? I would like to comment on this, because the following are the reasons why this issue is thorough. One of the reasons is that for this period, for these two months, the school door closes, so the community space where the children go for ten months is the gym, the sports field, many other things that the school still means, this is not available, the school year is over. It remains that the municipality from whom these children were nationalized nationalised nationalised the teachers, the civil servants educators, including the parents, the families, and nationalised the wealth in which these children are, so the school buildings, the courtyards and much more... remain as a voluntary task, depending on the wealth of the settlement, what you will be able to do with the children. Can you finance a summer camp, an on-call summer camp for two months with your own money, where children receive meals, receive supervision, professional supervision, program? Because for these two months, these kids don't get that much-spoken free meal, there's no norm for this period. During this period, for these two months, these children, especially the juniors who need to be supervised, even the seniors, may not be so much, but I think that, based on my experience, they are happy to go to such a camp, there depends on a municipal wealth to care for the children. From then on, the KLIK has nothing to do with the children for these two months. In my constituency, we continue to do what we have been doing for decades, with summer camp with 200-300 children, the local government's own breakfast, its own lunch, its own snack, its own normative, local government source. Since the school is closed, the camp has to be made on the football field. We set up a tent, and the 180-200-210, when there are so many children on vacation, and who is to be supervised, is in a tent in the sizeable heat, now, for example, without any air conditioning. It's true you can run around the sports field, move around, do a lot of things, but you can't go to your own school, can you? [[19.50]] In my district, even the municipality can do that there is camping, so there is a holiday in a week or two-week version, something symbolic is paid by the parent. The municipality costs tens of millions of forints these two months in my constituency. As a result of which, after the agenda, I think, it has competence: the previous debate was about family protection, about how families are cared for, how parents and families are encouraged through the support of children. If I look at what's happening to the kids in the two months of the summer, then everything we talked about on the previous agenda is a bubble screaming in the air, I think. Thank you very much.
u2019-07-01-253	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP László Horváth, representative of Fidesz, asked for a speech with the title "Flashwaters in the North Heves region." Here you go.
u2019-07-01-254	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Just over a week ago, we broke a record, and we're the new record holders. But we're not happy about it, and we're not proud of it. The record of the amount of precipitation that fell in one day was set: in 1982, a similar amount of rain fell in Hajdúböszörmény, if I calculate correctly, 37 years ago, that was 115 millimeters, and just a week ago, more than 154 millimeters of rain fell on the small village of Terpes in northern Heves in one day. It's a mass of water against which a small settlement doesn't stand a chance. Within moments settlements became inaccessible, homes uninhabitable, roads untraceable, and institutions unusable. All this from one moment to the next, really, as lightning came to people, to settlements with water, and the water left no doubt that he was the master here. This weekend, 17 settlements cried out for help, and in the trouble it was uplifting that there was help, there was man, there was hand on the dam, there was hand, which put homosacks, carried sandbags, hoisted shovels, brought pump. From here, I would like to thank you for all your help, for the help of the neighbor, the locals, the firefighters, the volunteer firefighters, the firefighters, the police, and the entrepreneurs who brought the machine, I would also like to thank you from here. And from here, I would also like to ask the Government to ensure that force majeure aid covering the costs of defence and restoration of municipalities can reach those affected as soon as possible within a legal framework. Dear House, Climate change around us is not a theory, not a theory, and the extreme weather around us has kicked down the door more than once with a pair of feet, hails, sleet storms, snow blowers in April have put the local people on a very big challenge more than once. And we know that we must prepare for such extreme conditions, so that under such circumstances we can alleviate the inevitable loss. In light of lightning waters, we need to prepare for the construction of protective ditches, to increase, increase and continue the construction of rainstormers. We must prepare, but the solution is not in the means of defense. The protection tool helps to alleviate the damage, but the solution is in the one who caused the problem: the solution is in the man. For man has called upon the forces of nature against himself, and the answer to man's immeasurableness is immeasurable. The inner balance and harmony of man in the outer environment also cause the imbalance. So the solution is in man, in all of us, and as Eckhart Tolle said, the world can only change from within. It's a huge responsibility, but it's also a huge opportunity that we need to seize. Thank you very much.
u2019-07-01-255	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Ms Zita Gurmai, representative of the MSZP, applied for a speech with the title "Actual Affairs." Here you go. [[20.00]]
u2019-07-01-256	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, In Hungary, since 1 July 2009, the same-sex couples have had the opportunity to establish a registered partnership, so exactly ten years ago, during the governing of the socialists, the legal legal framework that gives members of the LGBTQ society the opportunity to officially recognise their coexistence. During these ten years, this legal institution did not loosen the family model, nor did it harm the future development of society, despite what Fidesz said in the 2009 debate of the law. The anniversary gives us a good opportunity to examine the situation of the LGBTQ community in Hungary today and to discriminate against them. On average, only a hundred registered partnerships are registered in Hungary today. According to experts, this may be due to the fact that couples still live their daily lives in hiding. The fact that they feel they have to hide is disappointing, but not surprising. What else could they do if they lived in a country where one of Hungary's public-law dignitaries, László Kövér, said that they were not equals. He didn't say it in a private conversation, but in a residential forum, and I quote, a normal homosexual knows what the order of the world is, that he was born like this. He is trying to adapt to this world by not necessarily considering himself equal. However, the Speaker went even further and stated that there was no difference between the marriage of pedophilia and the same-sex couples and their adoption. With this statement by László Fatér, the human dignity of a significant part of Hungarian society has been undermined. His statement is not shocking because of the mere existence of his opinion. László Kövér's statement becomes absolutely condemnable when we consider that he is the Speaker of the Hungarian Parliament, and so he spoke at a public political event as one of the country's main public-law dignitaries. Thus, not only as a private person, László Kövér, but also as the President of the Parliament embodying the state and a fundamental part of it, made a statement that undermines human dignity. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President. Human life and human dignity form an inseparable unity and the greatest value that precedes all else. As regards the right to life and human dignity, the Hungarian State also has a primary duty to respect and defend this, as established by the Constitutional Court of 23/1990. These ideas are still one of the most fundamental items of the Hungarian Republic. The recognition and respect of human dignity is one of the most important cornerstones of our modern European culture, on which not only our modern democracies but also the whole European society are built. Of course, László Kövér has the right to his private opinion, but no one's expression of opinion should be aimed at making someone feel like a second-class citizen in his own country. After all, statements such as those made by László Fatér, which violate human dignity, lead to someone being ashamed to take on their sexual orientation and not to take advantage of the opportunities provided by law. Such statements lead to the denial of the rental of a rental apartment to a couple of the same sex simply because of their sexual orientation; such a case has recently been included in the news. Such statements also lead to the fact that not all couples of the same sex who have shared a child can visit their sick child in the hospital, not all of them being able to act in the event of an accident. Such statements by state leaders are totally unacceptable, since such an attitude leads to the disintegration of society, the resurgence or strengthening of the differences in society, and such an attitude also leads to an environment hostile to our fellow citizens; this does not benefit anyone, merely destroys social co-existence and ultimately weakens Hungarian society. On this basis, I would ask my fellow Members to condemn statements that undermine human dignity in the LGBTQ community and to act against their humiliation. With an acceptance society, everyone's better off. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2019-07-01-257	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its meeting at 8:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed. Good evening, everyone. Good night.
