u2019-09-18-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down. No members of the Government or members of the Government shall be present in the Chamber.]] I salute my fellow Members. Extraordinary session of the Parliament is now in session. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. Welcome to our guests and everyone who's watching our work today. The pre-meeting speeches will follow. I would like to inform you that the government's response will not be made. For a pre-meeting speech from the Jobbik Group, please come to light. Mr. Peter James, leader of the group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2019-09-18-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, My first question is: where is the government, where is the Fidesz, and, above all, where is the national scrubber, where is Lajos Kósa? His presence would be important because his manifestations generally show how Fidesz is related to climate policy. Pretty much nothing, because as a leading politician in Fidesz, you can call a burning rainforest a common bushfire, well, the darkness is complete. In Lajos Kosa's mind, let alone the bush, but the spark of reason is not on fire. [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] After all, I am skeptical whether it makes any sense to debate climate policy with Members who think that global warming is a cheap serialist trick, who think that fighting global warming is essentially a threat to the reduction of overhead; and this was not said by a comedian, but by Viktor Orbán. I believe that the European Union did not ask too much when it called on the Member States to act together in the interests of climate protection so that this joint action would have a visible and tangible result by 2050 at least. What does the boss of the bush fighter say? Wait, that's not good, that's a threat to the cost reduction. Man's mind is that even on this issue, Fidesz is lying, and even on this issue, it is able to confront the international public, to face Europe, to further enhance Hungary's international isolation. Three things need to be noted. One: In 2050, the question will not be how big the bill is, but whether we will survive climate change. Two: Hungary should not be isolated, but isolated, if we are serious about reducing the costs. Three: the reduction of the rent is not threatened by climate protection, but by Fidesz politicians buying into the energy sector. When Lőrinc Mészáros bought the Mátra Power Plant, what did the CEO of the company talk about immediately? About how it's time to raise the public's energy price. Well, if it's anything, it's a threat to the reduction of the rent; and the fact that Fidesz gives gas 40 percent more expensive to the population than the world market would justify. Aunt Mary, Uncle Józsi pays nearly twice as much for gas every month as he should, and instead of fidesz halving the rent, they spot the eyes of pensioners after five years with a HUF 9,000 return card. Fidesz mayors are campaigning with this certificate instead of demanding a real and legitimate, fair reduction of the rent not only for pensioners in their settlements, but also for all citizens. That's the problem with Fidesz mayors, they're not representing the population, they're representing the government. If the government wants to set up a migrant hostel somewhere for Ukrainian migrant workers, these mayors are silent. If the government takes away the cafeteria from the workman, these mayors will keep quiet. If the government cuts down health care, these mayors will keep quiet. But if the candidates of the opposition have to be defiled, if the candidates of the opposition have to be serialized, Gyurcsányánd, and I can't, migrant caress, then these mayors are the loudest, because they are the puppets of Fidesz, they will never represent the population, they always want to meet Viktor Orbán. Do you know why? Because even candidates for mayor can only be of the favor of Viktor Orbán, they will never go against him, unlike those mayors of opposition who will be mayors of the public's trust and therefore serve the population. That's why opposition settlements can be more successful than pro-government. And for one other reason: we, Jobbikos, we oppositionists, are capable of what Fidesz has not been able to do since 2010; apparently it is not now. We are able to listen to each other, we are able to look for points that connect us, and we are not saving our debates either, because we think that debate is the engine of development. If you're indisputable, you're indiscretionable. As you can see, Fidesz is a dead end in development. Now is the time for this country to come out of this dead end, because we will not progress if we have to serialize every day, but we will develop when there are finally mayors in this country who represent the population as a whole, because our affairs are common. Rent development is not only needed by the better voter, but also by the fidesz and the socialist. What we need is modern health and quality education for everyone. In fact, global warming doesn't choose based on party sympathy, and we're all gonna be victims of that. So we should act on these issues together and together. The party that is today, the 21st. He's unable to cooperate in the century and the Fidesz is apparently incapable of digging the nation's grave. But to say something positive by the end: last week, in response to a written question, the Minister of Agriculture acknowledged that, yes, the price of potatoes in Hungary increased by 60 percent in a year due to global warming. I am glad that Minister did not pin it all on Soros, but admitted that there was a problem. Now, this could be the first step towards a solution. So now I can only wish for the bush fighter what all the other Fidesz have: let there be light at last!
u2019-09-18-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Mr Bertalan Tóth of the MSZP Group spoke before the agenda with a title on current affairs. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2019-09-18-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, [[Turning to opposition representatives:]] I can only turn here because someone needs to talk to. It's not good, but it's not tragic. This sentence was expressed in a series of films, the Chernobyl miniseries, when the first radiation values were measured, and it was measured that 3.6 x-rays were the rate of radiation, so the chief engineer there said that it was not good, but it was not tragic. Then it turned out that this device was only able to measure, and thousands of times, tens of thousands of times, the radiation. This attitude is characteristic of the Fidesz government's attitude to climate change: it is not good, but it is not tragic, because every year the summer is warmer, ice caps and glaciers melt, the drought that endangers growing areas, the increasingly problematic access to clean drinking water and clean air is not good, but it is not tragic. Well, I would like to point out that, but it is both bad and tragic, the situation that our world is heading towards, which is exactly where the Fidesz government would lead our country. Climate change is not according to them, but if there is, it must be some kind of liberal socialist, communist, cyclist, Soros-agent, migrant invention, but it is absolutely clear to the government's policy: this attitude is a servant of the Oligarchs near Orbán, because we can see exactly how Lőrinc Mészáros expands in the energy market, gas is important to him, oil and fossil energy are important to him. While the Earth's lungs are on fire, as we have heard, Lajos Kósa says that it is a bushfire; János Áder, as the main climate protector, did not say a word about when the government vetoed the climate neutrality of the European Union to reach it by 2050, he did not have a word about it. Meanwhile, Pope Francis called climate change an ecological disaster, which caused a global economic and social crisis, and the Christian government says that it is neither good nor tragic. Ladies and gentlemen, Greta Thunberg, Swedish high schooler, environmental activist, said, "I want you to act like you're experiencing a personal crisis." I want you to act like your house is on fire. 'Cause it's on fire. It is worth considering his words. [[10.10]] Ladies and gentlemen, We may not have been able to force the Fidesz into the walls of this House, and it is clear from this that the proposal for a resolution that we have tabled together is neither discussed nor accepted by Parliament. But we can act. On 13 October, in the municipal elections, we have made a long journey, but in most of the county-righted cities, in the capital, we have established an opposition alliance that allows us to liberate the Hungarian cities from the Fidesz rule and break the hegemony of Fidesz. This alliance can be capable of creating a chance of victory if we don't win yet. And that is not only why local elections are important, but also because we opposition parties in the municipalities, in the free cities, will represent that local authorities can also take action against climate change: energy efficiency investments, air cleanliness provision, the organisation of public transport, and many, many, many of the steps that municipalities can take against climate change. Therefore, it is important that on 13 October as many settlements as possible are free cities, we can show this climate protection policy in the real world in as many settlements as possible. We know exactly where Fidesz policy leads. Anyone who feels responsible for his environment should give us the opportunity to take action against climate change in free cities. Let's create a chance to win. Go, free cities! Thank you very much.
u2019-09-18-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. She also applied for a speech before the agenda on current matters, from the Group of Dialogue, Ms Szabó Timea. Here you go, ma'am. You have the floor.
u2019-09-18-5	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, We convened this extraordinary meeting because, according to a very recent report by the European Commission, 96 percent of Hungarians - ten out of ten Hungarians - are concerned about climate change. He is concerned because he knows precisely that if we do not act very, very quickly, then our children and grandchildren, in the strictest sense of the word, will be at war for a living place, food and water. That's nice of you not to be here, that is, zero pro-government congressmen. You know, the problem is that when you don't come to such a very important meeting, you don't mess with us, but you openly say that you don't give a damn about one of the most pressing problems of the Hungarian people and the future of our children. While, according to the Fidesz faction, the opposition only deals with scandal when we convene this meeting on climate change and the climate crisis, it turns out that this summer was the hottest time in the world. Even the opposition can hardly be accused of Origo having published an article in June entitled "It will be extremely hot in Budapest according to the latest study. Indeed, in a few years there will be such an unbearable heat in Budapest that children, elderly people, sick people, and even healthy adults face cruel times. When we talk about climate change, we are not talking about the future, we are talking about the present. It was not 20 years later, but this summer that a hospital worker was sick during surgery at the Kútvölgy Hospital, because it was 34-35 degrees in the O.R., but the patients also had to heal in a room of 33-34 degrees after a recent operation, because there is no air conditioner anywhere. But extreme heat waves will not only endanger Budapest. According to forecasts by the National Meteorological Service, in the next decades 40 percent of the country's territory may be 38-40 degrees per year for up to two months. Békéscsaba, Orosháza, Szeged, Kiskunfélegyháza, Kecskemét and Szolnok, and even Debrecen and Nyíregyháza all fall into the zone where lifeless conditions will prevail in summer. In Europe, they are already actively taking action to protect the population from the effects of climate change, but in Hungary, Viktor Orbán still calls this problem the tantrum of the opposition. While solar and wind energy production is active in the EU, Viktor Orbán blocks the construction of solar and wind power plants in order not to reveal that there is a much cleaner, cheaper energy source, such as the Paks Nuclear Power Plant or the Mátra coal power plant of Lőrinc Mészáros. But again, there's nothing else to tell Viktor Orbán but about stealing and getting rich. In 2016, Viktor Orbán introduced a regulation in Hungary that states that no wind power plant can be built within a 12 km radius of the populated areas. Now, the fact is that there is no point in Hungary where this regulation could enter into force, i.e. they could build a wind farm, because there are only 11.5 kilometers of such points. It is no coincidence that Viktor Orbán has set exactly 12 kilometers to avoid the construction of wind power plants. There's nothing else in the world for such insolence! But Viktor Orbán and his men also kill trees as if they were our main enemies. Heat camera footage shows that the asphalt radiates in summer at 70 degrees, while the wooded parts are only 25-30 degrees. Viktor Orbán and his government, along with Governor István Tarlós, deny this imminent danger, and they will not give Hungarian people a chance to prepare themselves to defend themselves. But we tell them that on October 13th, the municipal elections are here, where we will give the cities a chance again to take their own power against climate change. In Budapest, Gergely Christmas is also preparing to replace István Tarlós, who is fooled into the megaphone, to protect the people of the capital from the imminent danger. With the leadership of Gergely Christmas, we replace the polluting buses in Budapest, we develop fixed road transport, we expand the bike road network. The hospitals are equipped with climate control; we continue the energy-efficient insulation of the housing stock in Budapest; we facilitate the spread of solar cells; we provide the new capital investment with renewable energy; we create the city's largest installed park forest in Budapest; we launch information campaigns for the population and schools to prepare for climate-conscious life. Government representatives, you will not come to such a very important debate, but we will show on October 13 that the change in cities will begin. In Budapest, together with Gergely Christmas and the newly elected opposition mayors in the countryside, we will protect Hungarian people from the effects of climate change. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] On October 13th, we show that our future is not for Viktor Orbán's thieving friends, but for our children. Thank you.
u2019-09-18-6	Thank you, Madam Group leader. Why is the government silent about what it is doing at the UN Climate Summit? Ms Erzsébet Schmuck, Deputy Head of the Group of the LMP, spoke before the agenda. There you go. You have the floor.
u2019-09-18-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, First of all, allow me to welcome representatives of civil society organisations in the gallery who have serious expectations and messages for politicians. Ladies and gentlemen, I was a little confident that the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic would come to the meeting today, speak up and believe that they understood the greatest challenge of our time, which already threatens the existence of our civilisation. I also hoped that on a matter of fate such as climate change, the Prime Minister would hear the voice of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Pope Francis, responsible leaders of the EU, scientists and people, taking responsibility for reducing the consequences of climate change, and not waiting for the European Union to resolve this issue for us. I also hoped that the Prime Minister would declare at today's meeting: he is aware that Hungary is particularly exposed to the consequences of climate change, that extreme weather conditions are causing serious damage to people's lives, lives and the economy. Ladies and gentlemen, It would have been nice to hear about the government's commitment to a more stringent climate reduction objectives, and what adaptation steps it intends to take in each sector. At today's meeting, the Prime Minister should also have said that he had made a mistake when he voted off the European Union's stricter climate targets on two occasions and apologized to the Hungarian people for representing the interests of Hungarian people in Brussels, not the automotive industry and the Polish coal industry. [[10.20]] It would also be time for the Prime Minister to declare that he supports the announcement of the climate crisis, to start preparing the Hungarian climate law and the country's decarbonisation plan for 2050, and to immediately stop the installation of green surfaces and to transform its government to this end, to establish the Ministry of Climate and Sustainability. A prime minister in charge of climate issues was supposed to comment here today. But that's not what happened. On the side of the majority of the government, empty benches, as well as the Prime Minister's seat are empty. We have to say that Hungary has a climate-sceptic government, a government that is blind. The largest governing party has politicians who do not see the forest from the burning bush, who regard climate change as a communist trick and a political battlefield. Not only do they believe tens of thousands of scientists, but they don't believe their own eyes, even though in recent months people in Hungary have experienced the consequences of climate change, the sudden precipitation, the stormy winds. Many poor people are in even more trouble, because today 1.2 million people in Hungary do not have housing insurance, because they are so poor. I'm asking you, who's gonna help them? The government doesn't, that's for sure. Ladies and gentlemen, Why did LMP initiate this meeting today? As you know, the UN Secretary-General has scheduled an extraordinary climate summit by Monday next week, asking world leaders not to participate in this climate summit with good words, but with serious commitments and commitment. As is known, the Secretary-General of the United Nations has recently spoken about the climate disaster on several occasions, seeing what problems there are in the various continents of the world. Ocean island countries are rightly afraid that the ocean will absorb their dwellings, and elsewhere in the world settlements have become unlivable because of water scarcity, rising temperatures in the summer, or natural disasters. As a result, it is expected that in the future, many tens of millions of people will leave their homes and want to settle down in Europe. This migration will not be stopped, and no one will be able to do so. In 2015, many people had high hopes for the Paris climate summit, but we know that this is not enough, much more needs to be done today. We expect the Prime Minister to take responsible decisions in the interests of the Hungarian people in order to combat climate change, and with these commitments Hungary will take part in the UN's extraordinary climate summit. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-09-18-8	Thank you very much, Madam Group Leader. Dear Parliament, Mr Ferenc Gyurcsány, the leader of the Group of the DK Group, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2019-09-18-9	Thank you very much. Whether there is an Almighty God, we humans think differently, but we can be absolutely sure that there is no almighty government. The government that claims to be almighty or acts accordingly is not all-powerful, but good for nothing. Well, like our government. We are wrong to think that people behind the government or the government don't read the same studies about climate protection as we do. Read it. What's the real problem here? The problem is that if I build a political concept on ethnonationalism, and I think that America is the first, Hungary is the first, Brazil is the first, then we get into trouble in all the problems where we have to act together. In a way, the government should square the circle. In order to be effective in these matters, it would be necessary to leave its own political and ideological area. You can't do that. In order not to challenge the political-conscious concept on which his entire policy is based, he must reject any matter whose solution goes beyond the national state framework. That is, of course, the climate issue, but that is the refugee issue and a thousand other things. The people and politicians who believe that in this framework, the government will be able and willing to deal with big global issues in any way that leads to recognition, because that is no longer the government. This government must not be changed, this government must be replaced, because it is simply incapable of dealing with global issues in this world. Of course, there's another half of it, and then here we are in the news. Says a government politician with a rather stupid-looking text, that the world clock is slowly being adapted to Hungary. Well, I don't know. The way I see it, we all have our own hours, and then we try to sort them out. There's a clock for the Karcagia, the Pope's and many. On the one hand, this government refuses to take part in global affairs, and on the other hand, it takes away everyone's right to care about their own life. That's where we're at with the municipal elections, isn't it? What I can tell the voters is that there must be a government politician and mayor who sweeps the street. I'm sure there is. It's even possible that in one place or another the garbage will be transported properly, not in many places. But that's not the real question. The real question is that these pro-government mayors have essentially assisted in re-establishing a system of council in Hungary instead of in Hungary, so that local self-government, instead of local government, the executive bodies of government central power, have become poor local governments. And they were silent, they tolerated, they allowed them to take away the schools, they allowed them to take away the health facilities, they sold and betrayed their villages, their cities just because the center called on them. Have you heard of one demonstration, one resistance, that I will not give, this is my city, this is a community that wants to live and can organize its own life? They didn't hear me. It's not like someone wants a civil war, it's just crazy pro-government politicians imagining it. We want it to be possible to show cities, villages, districts, the capital that it is possible to live a more independent life, and that the people's community of settlements is not subject to government will, because this is our country, our settlement. That is why, in a sense, this election is about whether we are freeing these cities and settlements. Because the government is not omnipotent, either globally or locally. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of DK, MSZP, LMP and Dialogue.]]
u2019-09-18-10	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. President János Áder sent the Parliament transcripts on the termination of the office of State Secretary and the appointment of a new State Secretary. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the transcripts of the President of the Republic. Here you go, notary. [[10.30]]
u2019-09-18-11	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (paragraph 4) (j) of the Fundamental Law and the 2018 CXXV on Government Administration. Law 205. On the proposal of the Prime Minister, pursuant to Article 5 of the Act, the Secretary of State, Szabolcs Takács Ferenc, was relieved of this mandate with effect from 16 July 2019. Article 9 (four) (j) of the Fundamental Law and CXXV of 2018 on Government Administration. Law 202. On the basis of paragraph 2 of the Act, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, I appointed Attila Steiner as State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice with effect from 17 July 2019. Budapest, 15 July 2019 Sincerely: János Áder Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (paragraph 4) (j) of the Fundamental Law and the 2018 CXXV on Government Administration. Law 205. On the proposal of the Prime Minister, Mr. Ákos Kara, State Secretary of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, Mr. Balázs Weingartner, State Secretary of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology and Mr. József Bódis, State Secretary of the Ministry of Human Resources, were exempted from this mandate with effect from 31 August 2019. Article 9 (four) (j) of the Fundamental Law and CXXV of 2018 on Government Administration. Law 202. On the basis of Article 2 of the Prime Minister's proposal, Dr. Zoltán Lőrinczi and Dr. Zoltán Maruzsa Viktor were appointed State Secretary of the Ministry of Human Resources with effect from 1 September 2019, Dr. József Bódis, Dr. Anita Boros and Sigismund Peter Perényi as State Secretary of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology with effect from 1 September 2019. Budapest, 23 August 2019 Sincerely: János Áder
u2019-09-18-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, I declare that 54 Members are members of the Parliament Act 35. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament initiated the convening of an extraordinary meeting of the H/7380 on non-deferential tasks arising from climate change emergencies. In order to discuss a proposal for a decision. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] H/7380 called for an extraordinary meeting of the Parliament to be convened on non-deferential tasks arising from climate change emergencies. In order to discuss a proposal for a decision. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. (Vote.) I find that the majority of those present voted in favour, but I do not see that Parliament has a quorum. [[Noise, interruptions from opposition lines. Szabó Timea: Really?]] I would like to announce, Honourable Parliament, that Mr Máté Kocsis, Head of the Group, has in a letter initiated the repetition of the vote by using a ballot counting machine. [[Gergely Harvesto: Why didn't you come here? Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: Where is it?]] I also want to say that if he hadn't initiated it, I would have had an obligation, because the list of missing people has to be established and suspended. In accordance with the motion, I am now asking the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the proposals on the agenda put forward by the President. Please vote with the help of a ballot counting machine. [[Vote.]] I hereby declare that the Parliament shall vote by 43 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions... [[Szabó Timea, Bence Tordai, Dr. Andrea Varga-Damm, Dr. Ádám Steinmetz, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Tibor Bana representatives indicate that their machine is not working.]] I will only announce the result: the Parliament voted in favour of the proposal without voting against or abstaining. Accordingly, Parliament does not have a quorum. [[An uproar in opposition ranks. László Varju: We must vote again!]] Congressman Bence of Tordai would like to speak. [[Noise, interruptions. Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Mr. President, the machine is not working! The machine's broken! The ballot counter doesn't work!]] You can't say that again. If someone didn't vote, we can record it, but I can't... [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea's intervention. Gergely Harvestó: There's the voting machine again!]] Dear Parliament, Now it is my official duty to call upon the factions to ensure their quorum, but given that both the Fidesz faction leader and KDNP have informed me that they are not taking part in the work of Parliament today, so I do not see an opportunity to restore the quorum of Parliament today. That's why I thank you all for your appearance. I would like to inform you that the date of the next meeting of Parliament [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] information will be provided later. The meeting's closed.
