u2019-02-20-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good afternoon. Dear Parliament, The 3rd day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that Mr Attila Móring and Mr György Szilágyi will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, The situation of nationalities living in the territory of Hungary [[February 2015 February 2017]] The report and the joint general debate on the proposal for a decision on its adoption until closure. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. The government referral is B/2160. and the proposal for a decision submitted by the Judicial Committee, H/3606. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr. Miklós Soltész, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the report. Secretary of State, please.
u2019-02-20-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Nationality Speakers and Nationality Representative! I welcome all those who are monitoring this report. The government reviews the situation of nationalities living in Hungary every two years and reports it to the National Assembly, in compliance with the provisions of the national minority law. The current report covers the period from February 2015 to February 2017. Since the new governance structure is responsible for nationality policy, relations, support policy, cultural and international issues affecting nationalities have been brought to the Prime Minister's office during the preparation of the report, the area responsible for Roma affairs and other fields related to nationality policy, such as education and culture, have remained with the Ministry of Human Resources, the report is a joint work and a joint presentation of the two fields. The report provides a comprehensive picture of the national minority policy processes for the two years in question, the government initiatives that have been taken to ensure that national minority communities operate as effectively as possible. It reports on events in ethnic culture, media, and processes in the local government sphere. It also covers contacts with the leaders of nationalities, embassies, cultural institutions and the functioning of the bilateral mixed minority committees. With regard to the report on the situation of nationalities in Hungary for the period 2015-2017, allow me to highlight in my expo the main facts and results that show the situation of indigenous nationalities in our country during the period concerned. Dear Parliament, Thirteen indigenous nationalities live in Hungary. They both claim to be Hungarian and belonging to the particular nationality. They accept and appreciate Hungary's culture, its Christian roots, customs, laws, the useful citizens of our country, and they also faithfully preserve the traditions of their ancestors. It is appropriate for me to list the indigenous ethnicities living with us: Bulgarian, Greek, Croatian, Polish, German, Armenian, Roma, Romanian, Ruthenian, Serbian, Slovak, Slovenian and Ukrainian. Hungary's Fundamental Law states that the nationalities living with us are part of the Hungarian political community and constitute state-making factors. Accordingly, there was significant progress after the 2014 parliamentary elections that the nationalities could also participate in the Parliament's work. Thirteen ethnic advocates may represent their own nationality in the Hungarian National Assembly, who participate in the legislative work in practice. Both the government and the Parliament will listen to their words, opinions, suggestions. Everyone in Hungary has the right to the free exercise of their identity and national identity. It's only natural that anyone can do this without any restrictions. However, the government not only gives this theory, but also in practice significantly helps the nationalities living with us to preserve and pass on their identity, language, culture and faith. We help to complete their cultural autonomy, ensure and support effective representation of nationalities. An exemplary and outstanding national policy at European level helps them to develop and operate living, real ethnic communities anywhere in the country. The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary, composed of national minority advocates, discussed thirty-one motions during the reporting period. In addition to the proposals for legislation on ethnic education and cultural areas, the Committee discussed, in particular, the right to use the mother tongue, for example, the registration procedure, the administrative statute and the rules of procedure, but also the amendment of the law on criminal proceedings. Since its establishment, the committee has been cooperating with the Association of National National Governments; national minority advocates have been in contact with the presidents of the national governments, who, as permanent guests, can take part in the board's meetings with a right of consultation. The Committee has established good cooperation with the competent State Secretary of the Ministry and with the Deputy Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, who regularly informs Parliamentary spokespersons about closed nationality inquiries. The Committee shall also listen annually to the Minister with nationality competence. Its subcommittees also hold regular hearings, so that national minority advocates can obtain direct information from the political and professional leaders of public education, culture, public media, public finances, public administration and other areas. The Thematic Task Force for Nationality Affairs is a member of the Human Rights Round Table, which promotes the enforcement of nationality rights and proposes amendments to the Government. Thank you again for the work of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary in the past and in the present. Ladies and gentlemen, For the compilation of the report, the information comes from the ministries and their background institutions, the metropolitan and county government offices, county assemblies, national minority governments, national minority advocates, the Media Authority, the Equal Method Authority, the Hungarian Statistical Office and the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. Thanks to the employees of the organisations and institutions concerned. Allow me to highlight some decisive measures from the report for the period 2015-17. The most striking change is that in the reporting period the central resources allocated to the operation of national authorities and their institutions have increased significantly. The following main areas were covered and affected by the aid. National ethnic authorities had HUF 1.6 billion in 2016 and HUF 1.8 billion in 2017 to carry out their operational, compulsory and voluntary tasks and to carry out tasks related to ethnic media. By comparison: In 2010, this figure was 953 million forints. There has been an 88 percent change during this period. [[9.10]] The operating and task-based budget support of municipal and regional authorities was 3.1 billion in 2016 and we were able to provide HUF 3.2 billion in 2017. In comparison, this figure was HUF 1.5 billion in 2010, with a change of 113 percent. In passing on language and culture, kindergartens and schools have an outstanding role to play. In recent years, national and municipal self-governments have taken over the maintenance of a number of public education institutions. The support of the institutions maintained by the national minority self-governments comes directly to the maintainer. While this amount was 932 million forints in 2016, in 2017 it increased to 1 billion 192.5 million forints. In 2010, this figure was HUF 444.5 million; the increase was spectacular. In 2010 only HUF 41.2 million was paid as wage compensation for the institutions maintained by the national authorities. In addition to funding educational institutions, ensuring equal opportunities and the creation of opportunities remains a key aspect in the field of public education. A range of programmes will help this objective. With the establishment of the Anti-Segregation Round Table, the government will filter out any dissociative education or education that prevents disadvantaged children from catching up. The dissemination of pedagogical methods adapted to individual specificities is highlighted in the Human Resources Development Operational Programme. The complex instruction programme is a personal-centred educational method that promotes the school success of disadvantaged, cumulatively disadvantaged children and children with special educational needs and integration and learning difficulties belonging to Roma nationality. The central resources allocated to nationality policy are also provided in the cultural and research fields. In 2016, we were able to grant HUF 1 billion of HUF 756 million in individual grants from national minority programmes and scholarships, and paid HUF 940 million in the form of tender funds. By comparison, individual grants amounted to HUF 381 million in 2010, and in 2010 the source of the grant was HUF 370 million. The cultural institutions highlight the support of ethnic theatres and the role of performing arts organisations. For example, the government provided HUF 200 million in support of the renovation of the German theatre in Hungary. The library service and the national minority document supply are provided by the National Foreign Language Library, which has also been supported by the government. Landscapes play an important role in preserving the identity of nationalities, and we have provided a source for their development through public tender. Nationality research results can also be used in government work during decision preparation. One of the most important research areas of the Institute for Minority Research is the examination of social processes related to Roma. The promotion of ethnic media is also ongoing, and the budget provides funding for the presentation of national newspapers through national authorities. Public service broadcasters regularly broadcast native radio and television programmes. It is also important to mention the support of churches and ecclesiastical communities that play an important role in the life of nationalities. The budget also supports the churches' public service facilities, as there are several in which there is also education in the language of nationality. Churches do important work in the field of pastoral care in the language of ethnicity. The Hungarian Catholic Church, for example, performs pastoral pastors in German, Slovak, Croatian, Polish and Slovenian languages, the Hungarian Greek Catholic Metropolis in Ruthenian, Ukrainian and Romanian, and the Hungarian Evangelical Church in German and Slovak. The Hungarian religious communities play a significant role in supporting and supporting Roma and Gypsy people through Gypsy Pastorship and Roma Mission. In 2017, a Roma Coordination Council body, the Gypsy Pastor Policy Board, was established. The government takes note of the work of church communities to help the Roma catch up, the churches and prayer houses in settlements inhabited by the Roma, which have become the scenes of everyday life in the community. The report also provides a detailed description of other government measures taken to catch up with society. The Inter-Party Committee on Social Catch-up and Gypsy Affairs, in cooperation with the Government, helps to improve the living conditions and social integration of people with long-term needs. Education is a priority among programmes to help Roma catch up in society. The National Roma Municipality is working on creating a complex institutional network to ensure successful completion from kindergarten through secondary school to higher education. The Gandhi High School, College and Primary Art School is Hungary and Europe's first Roma ethnic and educational institution. The aim of the programme is to help young children with serious socialisation gaps and parents in the majority of the children's homes in the early stages of life. In the 2015/2016 school year, 95 percent of children aged four years were in kindergarten. School programmes provide extracurricular education and community development. From 2016 onwards, the complex personality development of 8 thousand students and small children took place in more than 289 schools of EU funding from 7 billion HUF 350 million. The aim of the programme is to return young people with no secondary education to secondary studies, to support the acquisition of a diploma and qualifications. The Travel Scholarship Programme aims to promote the training of disadvantaged students, including Roma. . Travel to the secondary school,.. Travel to the graduation,.... Travel to the profession,.... to the higher education, and.. to the diploma.... these programs are the ones that complete all of this. The Women's Chance Programme supports the training of Roma women and their employment in the social and child welfare system. The programme involved 1,700 participants, of which 499 were employed, focusing on preventing early school leaving of Roma girls and reducing early school leaving. The Christian Roma College Network, which is also a unique initiative in Europe, focuses on the training of Roma intellectuals. During the 2015/2016 academic year, 297 students studied and studied in 11 specialized schools. The preservation of the Roma ethnic culture also plays a key role in social catch-up. The greatest activity and diversity of Roma nationality can be seen in the field of traditionalism and amateur art. Each year, the application for the cultural events of Rome is published, which invites 25-50 thousand people each year. It also serves the preservation of ethnicity and ethnic identity at the. Our common values - a diverse society, and the, Gypsy Wheel Roma Values. The Roma ethnic multifunctional centre and network support music learning for most Roma students. The National Roma Platform is used to extend social inclusion to county levels. The programme started mainly in the counties most populated by the Roma population, so that decisions could be taken not only at the state level but also with the involvement of regional actors. [[9.20]] The programme is institutionalised by the network of county catch-up forums in 18 counties. For the sake of housing integration, complex settlement programme and healthy living conditions, it aims to eliminate peripheral living situations with the active participation of stakeholders, local communities, local authorities, civil and religious organisations. The local equal opportunities programme serves the same purpose. Dear Parliament, In addition to what has been said so far, the government report also reports on the further tasks of nationality policy. The Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and the national authorities have taken several initiatives to amend the national minority law, which have been incorporated into the law. During the period covered by the report, it has already been stated that the training of ethnic teachers should be reviewed in order to keep up with the increased demands. As a result of the process that started at that time, there is already a National Education Teacher Scholarship Programme. In the context of ensuring the principle of the use of mother tongue, it was considered that the costs of interpreting and translation should be paid by the State instead of by the party entitled to use the language of nationality. This has also been achieved since then. It is also envisaged that conditions should be created to allow actors in the area of nationality, national and local national authorities, civil society organisations and their institutions to have access to European funds. It has also been suggested that the possibility of continuing European projects for the development of textbooks and pedagogical aids should also be ensured. The preparatory action has started, and even during the period covered by the report, nationalities have already been able to apply. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Since 1994, in addition to the municipalities of the municipalities and counties, the local governments of the municipalities and counties have had or participated in the joint work on the most important issues of community life, culture, language use, religion opinion and consensus. The national minority authorities are the central administration, the government's partners. If a local government does not operate in a settlement, the national minority government shall represent the national minority. On the basis of the information received from government agencies, the report concludes that nationality authorities operate in accordance with the legislation. In the autumn 2014 municipal elections, 2146 municipal elections were held in 1523 municipalities. At the time, around 64 percent of the voters belonging to the 13 Hungarian nationalities participated in the vote. On 1 January 2017, 2052 municipal and 60 regional minority self-governments operated in Hungary. The figures show that there was a great need to set up national authorities and to support their operation, as there was a significant increase in the number of representatives of their ethnic identity in Hungary. According to the census, nearly 6 percent of the country's population, a total of 644 524 people, belong to one of the nationalities. The increase in the acceptance of nationality identity proves that the national policy pursued by the government is useful and good, since no one in Hungary has to hide their nationality and even take it proudly and gladly. In October-November 2016, the Central Statistical Office carried out a microcensus, i.e. a small census of 10 percent of households, at some 440 thousand addresses in 2148 settlements. Two questions asked me about belonging to this nationality. The data of the census are also important because they help the government to fine-tune its national policy and, for example, determine in which settlements the election of the local government will be possible, and the establishment of joint municipal offices will also be subject to the conditions attached to the results. From 2014 the operational support of local and regional minority authorities will take into account the census data. This year there will again be municipal elections in Hungary. In line with the Basic Law, the election of the municipalities of nationalities should be held on the day of the general election of local government representatives and mayors. National minority self-government elections shall be open to citizens who are listed in the national electoral register at their place of residence. I hope that this year as many of our countrymen as possible will participate in all these elections. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the Nationalities Speakers! The detailed figures of the 2015-17 report confirm that Hungary's ethnic policy is exemplary at European level. Since 2010, support for indigenous nationalities in our country has increased by more than fourfold, to an unprecedented extent. I am pleased to hear and see that the generous nationalism policy of the government has also contributed to strengthening bilateral relations. We believe that the support of indigenous ethnicities of Christian culture living with us does not weaken the majority nation, and it is also indirectly beneficial to Hungarians across the border. Hungarians living beyond our borders, such as the Highlands, Transylvania, Partium or Vojvodina, feel the improvement of relationships on their own. We hope that as many countries as possible will follow our example. I can assure the ethnic citizens of Hungary that the government will continue to consistently support the preservation and transfer of their language and religion, their culture, the operation and development of national nursery schools, schools and cultural institutions. I would ask the Parliament to discuss and accept the report by the Government of 2015-17 on the situation of nationalities. I thank the ethnic advocates for the implementation of the programme, for the joint work and success, all those who have also been advocates of this period, and all those who are now advocates. I thank the presidents and colleagues of the national governments for their work; I also thank all the people working in ethnic institutions, educators, cultural workers, church workers and workers for their daily sacrifices; and, of course, I thank all those who help nationalities in the area of nationality, whether in the public administration or in any other area. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-20-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, Chairman of the Judicial Committee, rapporteur for the motion for a decision. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-02-20-3	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minority Representatives, Congressman of the nationalities! I welcome you with respect and affection. The 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. Law 150. § Point 2 of the Act requires the government to review every two years the situation of nationalities living in Hungary and report it to the National Assembly. In accordance with the legal requirements, the Government's report on the period between February 2015 and February 2017, as the Secretary of State said, B/2160. In October 2018, the Parliament was presented by the Judicial Committee as a committee responsible for the tasks and powers of the Committee on Justice as a committee appointed at its meeting on 20 November 2018. Ladies and Gentlemen, In view of the fact that State Secretary Miklós Soltész has already given very detailed details of the proposal for a resolution and the government's presentation in this regard, I would therefore like to inform the House of the position of the committee. [[9.30]] According to the Committee, the report informs Parliament, in accordance with the legislation, of the national policy processes of the last two years, of the events in ethnic education, culture and media, as well as of the processes in national governments. The Judicial Committee welcomes the fact that since 2014, all 13 ethnic communities have been represented in the National Assembly, and since 2018, Imre Ritter has been involved in the legislative work by a German national representative. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Judicial Committee supported the adoption of the report by 8 votes in favour, no votes against, with 1 abstention, and proposed it to the Honourable Parliament. I'm asking you to support H/3606. A proposal for a decision. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-02-20-4	Thank you very much. The speakers appointed by the committee representing nationalities are now taking part in a 15-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Mr Félix Farkas, a Roma minority advocate, please.
u2019-02-20-5	Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the floor, Ladies and gentlemen. The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary on the situation of nationalities living in Hungary B/2160. 1st report and H/3606 on its adoption The report is concerned with the proposal for a decision between February 2015 and February 2017 with regard to the proposals for a decision. At its meeting on 21 November 2018, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary put it on the agenda and discussed it at B/2160. A report submitted to the European Parliament and to the Council in the light of the fact that, in the case of a government report on the situation of nationalities, the committee shall be deemed to be a committee related to the debate in order to draw up its position. Our committee agrees with the proposal for a decision of the Judicial Committee. The report covers in detail and thoroughly all issues relating to the situation of nationalities. In these few minutes, it is almost impossible for me to summarize my thoughts on government measures for the Roma in Hungary, but I will try. The first thing that needs to be said is that in a unique way, you have also created a system of ethnic advocates. In the period covered by the report on the state of nationalities living in the territory of Hungary between February 2013 and February 2015, the institution of national minority spokespersons, if I may say so, was in child's shoes. However, at the time of the report which is now to be adopted, he is already officially involved in the work of Parliament through the advocates of 13 indigenous nationalities, and this, as the chairman of our committee, Imre Ritter, will certainly say in detail, is also reflected in the rise in corner numbers. But it also shows that in other countries the presence of national minorities in Parliament is considered a model and an example to follow. We should thank the government for that. During the period covered by the report, the main basis for answering questions concerning nationalities was the Ministry of Human Resources, including the State Secretary for Church, Nationality and Civil Society Relations. I believe that cooperation between nationalities and the government is exemplary. The three chapters of the report, the general description of the situation, the chapter on the situation of individual nationalities and the chapter on further nationalism policy-making also give a careful picture of the situation of nationalities living in Hungary. Among the provisions on the forms of representation of nationalities, it is a special pleasure for me to mention the Roma Coordination Council and the Intergovernmental Committee on Social Catch-up and Gypsy Affairs. The financing of national minority tasks has sufficient detail in the chapter title on direct central support. The report discusses the situation of ethnic public education and education, including the sub-heading on the role of national self-governments in institution-sustaining. It provides statistical data on public education institutions maintained by national and municipal self-governments, presenting the operation and funding of these institutions, which I think will be further described in detail by the chairman of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, also by the German Member Imre Ritter. The report also devotes a specific chapter to equal opportunities in the field of public education that are extremely sensitive. Among the measures aimed at improving educational opportunities for Roma children and learners, it details the institution of integration training and programmes for individual progress. The chapter on the education of nationalities and the closely related ethnic education scholarship covers the public education of nationalities, the issues of traditionalism, the culture of nationality, the life of national minorities in their native language, the media of national minorities in their mother tongue. In addition, it will be perfectly correct to define, inter alia, as far as possible, the rights of language use in accordance with the legislative intention and to assess, digitise and make even more accessible the cultural heritage. I have already said it elsewhere, but I must repeat this time again that the 13 nationalities living in Hungary receive and receive large amounts of ethnic support and support increases, moral appreciation and acceptance from the current government during the period covered by the report. At the meeting of the Committee on 21 November 2018, the presidents of the national minority self-governments were also invited to take part in the presentation and the position of the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary. The Committee has drawn up a resolution on the accounts and, like the Judicial Committee, it unanimously supports B/2160 on the situation of nationalities living in Hungary by 12 votes in favour, with no abstentions and no votes against. on the adoption of accounts No 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-02-20-6	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mr Imre Ritter, a representative of nationality, who will present the first sentences of his speech in his mother tongue and then translate them into Hungarian. Here you go.
u2019-02-20-7	Sehr geehrter Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Mr President, Dear House, Minority, nationality: there is not only a stylistic and linguistic difference between the two words, but also a very significant difference in content. The primary characteristic of us is not that we are a minority, we are few, we are different, but that we belong to one or more nationalities, and this is extremely important to us. This understanding is the basis for developing a cooperative, sensitive, fair, democratic majority policy on nationalities. In the last parliamentary period, I have started a significant part of my comments, for example in the 2013 and 2014 budget laws and the reports on them, by saying that, in quotes, I am in a lucky position, because I can express my professional opinion quite frankly, because the nationalities in Hungary had little to do with the preparation, adoption and implementation of these laws. At the same time, I have read this two-year government report with a very good feeling, as it is the first two-year ethnic material to come before Parliament, the two-year period of which has already been examined, and there is hardly any part of it that if one had read it, it would not have felt a significant positive change in relation to the previous ones. [[9.40]] Significant progress has not only been made in the extent to which national minority authorities, the institutions they maintain, the support of local minority authorities, the national minority tender frameworks, the number of national minority public education and cultural institutions taken over by the national authorities, but also in the direction, extent, scale after the previous six to eight to 15 years, after more than half a lifetime of change, which rightly shaken and gave a new vision of the future to the nationalities living in Hungary. And here I would like to stress that in these historical changes, I think it is not about the person of the parliamentary advocates or the minority representative, but the parliamentary mandate of nationality, the Committee of Hungarian nationalities, the possibility of parliamentary nationality work, the systemic change. I am quite sure that in this report we talked more about the nationalities in Hungary here in the Hungarian Parliament than in the last 20 years. As a result, Hungarian politics, the Hungarian majority society also received significantly more information, information about indigenous nationalities living in Hungary, our situation, our opportunities, our problems, our goals, our achievements, and a series of intensive, forward-looking negotiations and legislative processes that really improved the situation of Hungarian nationalities in a meaningful and qualitative way. If you can say so, by introducing the 2011 national and 2013 electoral laws, as a result of the parliamentary minority representation, we have moved from being a minority to being a national minority, and the last few years have given us every opportunity to develop a majority and even a unified opinion in Hungarian society that is favourable to us in matters of nationality, just as the amendments initiated by the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities have been unanimously adopted by the Hungarian Parliament. I would therefore like to thank the former and present governments, the former and the current Hungarian parliaments, all the factions, the ruling factions of the government, the opposition groups in support of ethnicity decisions and the independent representatives, in spite of all the existing problems and additional tasks which have been significantly increased due to increased educational and cultural autonomy. I would like to thank the experts, Minister Zoltán Balog, State Secretary Miklós Soltész, State Secretary Péter Benő Banai, Attila Fülöp, Ábel Berczik, Deputy State Secretary Zoltán Maruzsa. In hindsight, we have had very serious, sometimes very stormy, difficult negotiations. Sometimes we were a little impatient, maybe too emotional, so I apologize afterwards, but we've always been able to carry on our common affairs. And even if it is not customary, I think that once every two years it may be possible and should be mentioned, Mr Richard Tircsi, Deputy Head of Department, Dr. Renáta Dienes, because with all the means and opportunities, they have been instrumental in helping you during the period under consideration; I think this thanks will certainly come to you. I would also like to personally thank Dr. Szalayné Dr. Erzsébet Sándor, Deputy Commissioner for the Protection of the Rights of Nationalities in Hungary and all his colleagues for their professional and dedicated work, with which they contributed significantly and helped to the effectiveness of the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary. In closing, I would like to underline and highlight the words of State Secretary Miklós Soltész two years ago about the situation of nationalities living in Hungary in February 2013 during the hearing of the report between February 2015. In particular, the ethnicity policy that we have developed and developed together serves as a model, and in many places it is mentioned in neighbouring countries or in other countries as the example to be followed in many countries, and this has an overall impact on the lives of Hungarian people living in the Carpathian Basin, so it is much more complex than the 13 nationalities in Hungary. In other words, the real rights granted to Hungarian nationalities will bring the greatest advantage to Hungary and to Hungarians across the border. It is very happy for us that both the former and the current Hungarian Parliaments, the former and the current Hungarian governments, have understood this, confesses, and it controls their actions and decisions regarding indigenous ethnicities in Hungary. May God keep their good habits. As a representative and chairman of the committee, invited by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, I would like to inform you, as Vice-President, that the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary is the B/2160 presented by the Government. 1) and by the Judicial Committee H/3606. He agreed with and proposed to the Parliament for adoption. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmersamkeit!
u2019-02-20-8	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The speech will now be held by the lead speaker in a maximum timeframe of 30-30 minutes. First, I give the floor to the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, Member Tamás Herczeg. Here you go.
u2019-02-20-9	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Speakers, In compliance with its obligations under the National Rights Act, the Government prepared its report on the situation of nationalities living in Hungary on the basis of data from the period 2015-2017. The document takes account of the situation of Bulgarians, Roma, Greeks, Croatians, Poles, Germans, Romanians, Armenians, Ruthenians, Serbs, Slovenians, Slovaks and Ukrainians in Hungary.In 2010, the Government of Hungary decided to seek active, close cooperation with nationalities living in our country during domestic public life cases. Looking at the years that have passed since then, it is perhaps right to say that the situation of nationalities in our country is gradually improving. Dear Parliament, According to Hungary's Fundamental Law, nationalities in the country are state-creating factors. Any Hungarian citizen belonging to a nationality has the right to self-identify and preserve his/her identity. Nationalities living in Hungary have the right to use their mother tongue, to use their own language and community names, to cultivate their own culture and to teach in their native language. Hungary's Fundamental Law therefore protects the individual and Community rights of nationalities at constitutional level. These rights are guaranteed by the fundamental law on the rights of nationalities. It is certainly worth highlighting, as an example, some very important measures in the area of national policy over the past period. Between 1 September 1939 and 1 April 1956, the German Federal Administration Office made it possible to claim compensation for their German citizenship and for those who were obliged to work for their nationality and, in the event of their death after 27 November 2015, for their relatives. In Hungary, the issuing of an official certificate to facilitate enforcement and assistance related to the case were carried out first by the Justice Office and after 1 January 2017 by the Metropolitan Government Office as compensation authority. It is an important legislative change concerning the central support of national minority authorities in Hungary that, after 1 January 2017, the conditions and the detailed rules of the grant are contained in the Act on the Annual Central Budget, replacing the regulation at the level of the Government Decree. The Government shall ensure the right of nationalities to free access to information, information and information obtained through the support of mass media, media services and press products operated in their mother tongue. [[9.50]] As an example, the 2016 Central Budget Act already provided for spending appropriations of HUF 1 billion of 599,7 million to support this objective. One of the most important factors, in my opinion, is that nationalities maintain an institutional network in order to preserve the cultural autonomy they represent. The funding for the maintenance of these national and regional cultural, educational and public education institutions, i.e. the support of the institutions maintained by the national minority authorities, after HUF 932 million, reached HUF 1 billion in 2017, i.e. HUF 260 million in one year. Ladies and gentlemen, In the light of the years covered by the report, it can be concluded that more and more applications have been launched, and in this context, more and more budgetary resources have been provided to support the functioning of national civil society organisations engaged in various safekeeping activities, the organisation of ethnic camps in the language environment, the implementation of educational training programmes in the mother countries and the promotion of ethnic culture. The list could, of course, be continued. In the field of ethnic education and education, the publication of scholarship applications for ethnic studies continued, and in the area of ethnic tradition, the activities of ethnic theatre and performing arts, ethnicity research, religious practice in the mother tongue, as well as the promotion of museum, library and archival fields. Hungary continues to play an active role in the international field of protection of nationalities and minorities. As an example, the continued functioning of our country and the joint minority committees established by different mother countries, the implementation of cross-border programmes and the Hungarian accession to the minority protection conventions created by the European Union and other international organisations. In relation to bilateral interstate relations, representatives of the Hungarian government and our diplomats have held ongoing discussions and discussions with the state leaders of the home countries of our nationalities on matters of domestic nationalities. Dear Plenary Session, Our basic law also states that nationalities living in Hungary can create local and national self-governments. The aid to ensure the functioning of local self-governments is automatically granted to existing local and regional self-governments. In my city, Békéscsaban has five of these ethnic authorities: Slovak, Roma, Romanian, Polish and German. So the ethnicity of the peaceful county seat is diverse, and these municipalities, knowing their work, I can tell you that they have found their place, their role and their duties in the life of the city. Yesterday, I collected their accounts from before last year, and the essential points of these actually contain exactly what the speakers before me said in general, so I am not going to discuss them separately. The Government is the law on the rights of nationalities 150. Therefore, it has complied with its reporting activities as provided for in point (a) of the first subparagraph. I believe that the report has been drawn up with the content and form set out in the legislation, and that it will inform Parliament in detail about the situation of nationalities in Hungary. The results outlined in the report are reassuring, as they provide evidence that the cultural autonomy of nationalities, their traditional and valuable activities and their representation at national and regional level remain a priority area for government policy. I hope that the effective and effective implementation of the national minority policy announced in 2010 will continue in the coming years. In view of all this, the Fidesz Group accepts the report, and I ask you, my fellow Members, to do the same. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-02-20-10	Thank you very much. Congressman János Bencsik, lead speaker of Jobbik. Here.
u2019-02-20-11	Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Speaker Woman! Mr. Speaker! I am honoured that, just two days after my oath, I will be able to give my first speech here, in front of you in the form of a speaker's speech, evaluating the work that has been done over the past period in order to preserve nationalities. Some may believe that virginity is less suitable for the formulation of a political credo. However, the situation of nationalities in Hungary, like the sea in a drop, also reflects the problems of the majority society. So let's see the government certificate for 2015-2017. As far as the foundation is concerned, Jobbik has consistently advocated the guarantee and expansion of the rights of indigenous nationalities, i.e. the widest cultural autonomy, since its founding. We believe that Hungary should help to preserve the culture, language and identity of nationalities in Hungary by all reasonable means. In becoming a model state, we need to set an example for politicians in neighbouring states, who in many cases see a foreign element in foreign Hungarians, who must be chased away, or if this does not work, they must be absorbed into the majority nation. It is the joint responsibility of Hungarian parties and politicians to prove that we regard indigenous ethnic communities not as a problem and a source of danger, but as a value that makes our country more, better and richer. The cultural diversity of the Carpathian Basin guarantees the survival and growth of the people living here. This is why Jobbik considered it a great success to take at least part of our previous proposals in the debate on the majority of governments, such as the 2011 Nationalities Act. This was how István Szávay's proposal to improve the proportion of bilingual signposts and street signposts, to create multilingual minutes, to appoint civil servants who speak the language of a given nationality, and to make bilingual administration mandatory at the 20 percent threshold. We also consider it a bit of a success and result of our own incentive to create an institution for ethnic advocates and preferential representatives of nationalities, as this was already part of our election programme in 2010. This is true even if our original ideas, primarily based on diplomatic and national policy considerations, would have given all nationalities the full mandate in some form; now only German and Roma nationalities have the opportunity to do so. We are also pleased that in last year's election, Mr Ritter, spokesperson, has won a full mandate, and he is now among us as a representative of nationality and is taking part in the trial of this report. I must say, however, that we find it extremely unfortunate that, after the parliamentary elections in 2018, the representative of the Hungarian Germans became the guarantee of two thirds of the governing parties in the National Assembly. Even sadder is the case of Mr Félix Farkas, who, on Monday's day, disgraced the institution of speech, decided to attack the president of the largest opposition party with genderless lies, probably to order Fidesz instead of, say, talking about the case of Flórian Farkas, who now has to answer for a billion-and-a-half fraud, which, by the way, does not reflect too well on the spending of gypsy catch-up money, at least on his social assessment. Ladies and gentlemen, The government's national policy over the last nine years has also had its advantages. State Secretary Soltesz mentioned here a significant increase in subsidies and a task-based approach. Jobbik welcomes this, as well as institutional separation of funds, which was also the old claim of Jobbik. Along this logic, we hope that in the future there will also be a special report on the situation of Gypsy in Hungary. However, there has been a spectacular lack of delays in calls for proposals, since the payment of grants for a given year usually has to wait until the summer, so it is very difficult for national civil society organisations to plan. [[10.00]] We hope that the reorganisation will be able to remedy this problem, although we have doubts, since it is mid-February and the organisations have not even received the supporting documents at present. Dear Parliament, We also need to talk about the shortcomings in which, unfortunately, the report before us is abundant. While all Hungarian ethnicities are working to stop and reverse the processes that lead to loss of language, this report contains only one place, and migration processes that, for example, have caused young people of Hungarian German nationality to be absorbed by the multinationals supported by the government, mainly in Austria and Germany, are also missing and silenced. Among the nearly one million Hungarian citizens who have migrated, who are looking for their prosperity abroad today, we also find many nationalities. It is certainly not in their favour of their return, nor is the slave law, which you, my honourable pro-government Members, have forced through Parliament in December under scandalous circumstances, in breach of house rules. Just as the Wild Eastern pace is not too promising, in which the leaders of multinational companies are now taking down their trade union leaders, as happened recently on Esztergom. Let us be clear: they dare to do this because you vouch for a spectacular foothold of workers' rights, and instead of overtime, only decent wages should be paid. Ladies and gentlemen, This report does not mention the extent to which programmes or proposals financed for nationalities contribute to the growth of national minority communities. There is no evidence of any monitoring activity in this context, even though I think that such a preparation would be useful for everyone. Mr Ritter has also mentioned and we also welcome the process of increasing the number of places where national authorities take over public education institutions; more than they do, I think that no one can know what educational curriculum and methodology the national minority community needs. At the same time, we regret that the transfer-over is in several places, as local authorities often do not wish to pass these institutions, where they have already been transferred, and there are maintenance problems. The reason for this is that the government no longer thought of providing additional resources for additional tasks. We also cannot read a line about all of this in the report before us. Nor can we read that there is a huge shortage of skilled educators at all levels of the education system. There are settlements in the country, my fellow Members, where we can't find a qualified, German-speaking kindergarten teacher or nurse who can do this job for a net half million forints. We would be very curious about the government action plans on this, if any. My fellow Member Brenner Koloman recently drew your attention to the fact that a 30% increase in the nationality bonus in this area is not likely to solve the problem. Moreover, the problem is similar to the lack of teachers in majority schools, which is achieved by the fact that, in practice, in many cases, third-year university students are welcome, especially in the fields of language and science, and this is not only the problem of rural schools, but also in many places in the capital. In this case, it would therefore be important to have dialogue, to consult with national authorities and to extend the exchange programmes. Dear Parliament, I would also like to mention the results of the census. Mr Soltész mentioned it, and we welcome Jobbik's fact that according to the 2011 data, almost all nationalities in Hungary have increased, although we have already drawn attention to the odds that, for example, the number of Romanians in jazz has increased by 320 per cent over 10 years, although in reality the number of Hungarians from Transylvania and who are otherwise Romanian has probably increased. At that time, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári denied this, but it is clear from the data of the 2016 microcensus that István Szávay was right about our former fellow Member, and what really happened was that in many cases, on the basis of language knowledge alone, without having specifically asked about it, it was arbitraryly established nationality. The same has happened to young people studying in German schools, with acquaintances in Germany, who were not, by the way, German nationalities. That is why we, Jobbik, support the mandatory condition of this issue. By the way, at the end of last year, Parliament adopted legislation relating to the 2021 census. Many have rightly criticized the fact that anonymity will not be guaranteed if nationality is granted, at least here the law does not make it clear. On the part of Jobbik, we can only hope that anonymity will remain, because for example, the main strategy of Hungarian Germanism, expulsions and evictions were also based on the census data by name, and this memory is still alive in the older age group, and this fills this older generation with fear and anxiety. In the context of the 2021 census, however, it is proposed once again that everyone should be free to declare their ethnic origins in addition to the 13 recognised nationalities. This is the only way to get a real picture of other nationalities living in our country, such as the real number of Chinese, Russians or even Middle Eastern ethnic groups. Although if we think more about the fact that over the last few years the Fidesz government has allowed 64 thousand immigrants and bond migrants to enter the country, organised and largely secretly, we understand, of course, that these statistics are embarrassing or rather to be avoided for you. Dear fellow Members, Finally, I would also like to raise some issues which, although not included in the report before us, should be dealt with in the future. This is also the Minority SafePack Convention for the Protection of Minorities, which is primarily important for the Hungarians from abroad, but it is also worth considering that Hungary has no further work to do in this respect. We cannot go past the border settlements, where the number and proportion of Slovak, Romanian, Ukrainian and Ruthenian-speaking populations are increasing year after year. It is worth asking whether this is additional work for the Hungarian state, such as Rajka or Ártándó. It is important to examine this only because it is possible to act on the basis of the principle of reciprocity, obviously if there is a need for this on the part of the community living in those settlements. Ladies and gentlemen, As a descendant of a family of Evangelical religions with Slovak ancestors in Békés county, it is important that we help the growth and survival of the Hungarian national communities by all means at our disposal. As a representative of the national opposition, I ask you to move beyond XX. In the centuries of ethnic hatred, let us bury together the trenches left behind by two world burns, the split of one country, and the great power games that seek to divide us. CHAPTER XXI In the first century, the road leads to the extension of the law and enforcement of existing rights and making them more effective. For this reason, despite all the shortcomings that I have mentioned, we will support Jobbik for our part, and we hope that at least on this subject, if nothing else, but at least sometimes they will follow our proposals and comments. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-02-20-12	Thank you very much. Mr László Szászfalvi, lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-02-20-13	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman of the Nationalities. Ladies and gentlemen of the Nationalities Speakers! Dear Secretary of State, The report presented now presents, for a period of two years between February 2015 and February 2017, the changes in the situation of nationalities and the measures taken by the government to improve the situation of nationalities in order to ensure the widespread enforcement of their rights under the national law. [[10.10]] I would like to thank my fellow Member, Imre Ritter, here in brackets, for his discussion and for his involvement in the concept of "the minority" and "the ethnicity"; I think there has been a huge change here over the last eight years. Hungary's nationalism policy stems from the Fundamental Law, which states both in the preamble, in the National Creed and in the standard text that the ethnicities living in Hungary are part of the Hungarian political community and constitute state-making factors. CHAPTER XXIX According to Article 10, any Hungarian citizen belonging to a nationality has the right to self-identify and preserve his/her identity. Nationalities living in Hungary have the right to use their mother tongue, to use their own language and community names, to cultivate their own culture and to teach in their native language. Nationalities living in Hungary can establish local and national and county self-governments, as well as detailed rules on the rights of nationalities and the rules for the election of their local and national self-governments are laid down by a fundamental law, i.e. the Hungarian state constitutionally ensures the enforcement of both individual and community rights in Hungary. Dear House, It is also clear from the report that, with the full assurance and support of what has just been said, our nationalities have a central place in the life of our country, and it is also apparent that our government's ideas, goals and structure for the implementation of the goals are adapted to the requirements of the age and has been established in accordance with the traditions of the past. The report also presents, as appropriate, the previous or recent history of the development of the current national political situation in relation to the changes of the two years under consideration. Ladies and gentlemen, It should be pointed out that social dialogue has led to further development of the legislative framework to ensure the preservation and development of the culture and mother tongue of nationalities. In parallel with the revision of the legislative background on national minority policy, the area's funding has been strengthened and rethinked, since stable and predictable funding is a need for communities that the government wanted to respect and respect in the future. The result, as we have heard, is that since 2010, the central resources allocated to the operation of national authorities and their institutions have increased significantly. The central resources allocated to nationality policy are also provided in the cultural, research and civil fields. Dear Parliament, In recent years, he has lived the renaissance of ethnic community life in Hungary. It is unique and almost unprecedented that we have developed cultural and sometimes administrative autonomy and institutional systems for ethnic communities, while also providing predictable and effective support to multi-ethnic civil society activities by the government. I have personally experienced and experienced this thriving ethnic activity in my constituency, where both Gypsy and Croatian ethnic communities perform extremely colourful, useful and future-building work and activities. In the last four years alone, government support for these communities has doubled. They have implemented and implemented a number of identity-preserving, cultural, religious, community-building and professional programmes, resulting in the strengthening of nationality identity and social integration. Daily cooperation has been established between majority and minority communities and between different ethnic communities, which, I believe, strengthens, supports and supports everyday coexistence. In particular, I would like to highlight, as an example, the programme of the "Protection Houses" and the programme of schooling, which all help the lives of Roma ethnic communities. Dear House, It is important to point out that our national minority policy has been and continues to be an example for both our neighbours and the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. This is done with a dual purpose and motivation: on the one hand, because of the historical heritage of the Carpathian Basin and Hungary, the ethnic composition of our country has usually shown a mixed picture, so there was a need for peaceful, productive, shared vision of the future; on the other hand, for the future of the Hungarian national communities living in the territories of the countries around us which have been separated from our country, the exemplary creation and support of national minority laws were extremely important. Therefore, I think it is vital that we set a good and viable example in this area. Overall, the material presented presents our highly diverse institutionalised support system, the diverse administrative, cultural, educational, religious, community and civil institution system, which is supported, maintained and continuously developed by the state, the government, and we are confident that this nationality policy will continue and continue to grow in the coming period. I would like to thank the leaders, members of our ethnic communities, municipalities and civil society organisations for their active activities and enthusiasm. Thank you very much for your attention. The KDNP Group supports and proposes to adopt this report, and calls on all other groups to do so. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-20-14	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, head speaker of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2019-02-20-15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In general, the report describes the situation of nationalities in Hungary. The report gives a detailed overview, supported by numbers and data, from the presentation of demographic and linguistic data and trends, through the presentation and budgetary support of the legislation for the enforcement of nationality law, to the presentation of the situation of ethnic education and culture, and I think that is all I would like to say about the report. Let me briefly say some of the statements made by the pro-government politicians in their keynote speeches, in the Commission's report and in Mr Secretary of State's exposé. I would like to highlight only one area in response to the Secretary of State. He long explained what the Orbán government has done in recent years to improve the situation of Roma ethnicity in Hungary through education. You forgot to mention those figures, Mr Secretary of State, that there are more than 500 schools in Hungary today where children receive segregation education, and this specifically concerns Roma children. This five hundred educational institutions, we have seen a drastic increase in recent years, there has been a drastic increase in the number of educational institutions and schools in Hungary where children can receive segregational education. In 2016, the European Commission launched proceedings against Hungary and several lawsuits are being filed against the Hungarian government, Hungary, for segregation of education. Last year, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences prepared a report in which it concluded that segregation would not have decreased in Hungary, but was growing drastically year after year. We see that in recent years the Hungarian Academy of Sciences has issued several reports that seriously criticized the activities of the Hungarian government, and this has had its consequences, and we can see the events that have taken place in recent weeks. If we read this report and listened to your speeches, then we might think that today everything is fine in Hungary on issues relating to nationalities, but we do not talk about emigration, we do not talk about housing problems, we do not talk about the slave law adopted in scandalous circumstances last December, the 400 hours overtime, which affects all Hungarian citizens and national workers in it. [[10.20]] We are not talking about the health situation, and precisely when we need to talk about health, it is very important to mention that the new data we saw yesterday is that the number of GP districts that are permanently unfilled has increased by almost 100. They can't take care of the vacant general physician that he could be in Hungary very quickly today. And we are talking mainly about the countryside, and if we are talking about the countryside, we must again highlight the situation of the disadvantaged population. About today, we can say that we have 600 thousand Hungarian compatriots who cannot use basic health care on a daily basis. Mr. Secretary of State didn't say anything about that either. I think that today in Hungary, if we come into the Hungarian Parliament, we see that the pro-government representatives speak, everything is all right, everything is very nice, everything is very good, while we see that in Hungary one of the biggest problems is that corruption, state corruption, corruption linked to the Fidesz-KDNP government, we do not talk about emigration, we do not talk about the state of health, we do not talk about the slave law, that is, there is no talk of government representatives, and there is essentially a narrative going on between the walls of the Hungarian Parliament. I don't think there's anything more to say about that. As long as this is the custom of the Hungarian Parliament, I think it is unnecessary to argue about any law. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-02-20-16	Thank you. Mr Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the Group of the Democratic Coalition, has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-02-20-17	Mr President, Dear House, I think there are few issues in this House where there is no debate between the opposition and the government on the basis of principle. I think we all agree that the nationalities in Hungary are state-makers, that they are part of the Hungarian national community, which enriches our country, and that the rights exercised by nationalities are rights and not donations, those which are due to our fellow nationalities, which are due to them, and which are the common duty of all of us. We therefore agree on the principles, but we have a debate in a number of areas in practice, in implementation, and let me make a silent comment on the principles as well. How credible is it from the government side that it really considers nationalities to be partners, indeed, as part of the nation, which otherwise uses diversity as a curse word, which talks about Hungary being a Hungarian country? Where is the place of nationalities, honourable Members, in this House? But let us assume that there really is good intentions, let us assume that the government really wants to respect the rights of nationalities. I would like to ask you not to pretend that this is some kind of favor. Mr. Secretary of State spoke here, and the members of the government spoke here as if it were some incredible benefit from the government to provide nationalities with what is due to them. Dear House, These are rights which, under the Fundamental Law and the European Convention on Human Rights, have the right to exercise on the grounds of nationality, on behalf of our fellow nationalities. Now, of course, you can play with the numbers, and let's say, tell them how much more support is now, because what had previously been normative to nationalities, ethnic schools, is being sent to them directly, but that does not change the fact. It is right and good that, if there is enough resources to support good ethnicity tasks, it is right and good that nationality tasks, nationality institutions, are growing if the cultural life of national minorities is lively, but this is not some kind of government favor. This is something that we must ensure together for nationalities to the extent that we have the opportunity and the strength to do so. I am always fascinated, especially in such a genre, by a relatively dry report, even if the government has a sense of humor, even if it is a sad, bitter black humour, because I can hardly see it as anything other than humor when Secretary Soltés talks about the incredible efforts the government is making against segregation and segregation of Roma children. The government that is in court with everyone who objects to segregation, the government whose minister testified in court and said what a need for loving segregation was; the government which took the municipal school system in its hands on the grounds that it had taken away the schools from the local authorities on the grounds that it would now be possible to apply equal opportunities, non-discriminatory criteria in education and not to eliminate or reduce segregation, but rather to increase and extend it. There are numerical examples of this, and I would not repeat them. It was very revealing when the Secretary of State or Mr Szászfalvi, say, boasts of the Travelling Programme when he boasts about the schools, when he boasts about the chance-creating measures, with all the measures that have been initiated by the Gyurcsány Government, which you have despised and attacked, and has been voted and supported by the former majority of Parliament, which has received funds in the EU budget period that we have planned, and which you have said only negatively so far. You can brag about them, of course. What you have done most with these programmes is that, on the one hand, civilians have been forced out of them and, on the other hand, they have constantly levitated their funding and have significantly destroyed these programmes. Therefore, they have no reason to boast with these programmes, to be more precise, because these are our common achievements, only to mention that this was not your government's idea, proposal and merit, but that it had to be done against you. Do you know what your program is? The programme, if I remember correctly, is the "Road to work" programme, for which five different investigations are being conducted around the Roma municipality's house. Now, this is your program, and you should be proud of that, which is to account in Parliament for what you have spent the money you have been given to improve and catch up on the situation of the Roma. Brag about how the Roma municipal system was corrupted and destroyed, talk about this in such a report, not just about beauty and good, but also about reality! I have to say that the Roma policy of this government is a policy of overcoming, it is not about Roma people, it is not about Roma children; this policy is only about how to put into friendly pockets the resources that we have fought out of the European Union for catching up and supporting Roma people in the previous period. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The fact is that while there are undoubtedly very important results in the case of nationalities, and we can all be grateful to the national authorities for the work they are doing, the largest minority or nationality in Hungary, the Roma, that is not true. I think that it is time to face the situation of the Roma in Hungary in substance, to talk about it, to continue a substantive debate on this. It's clear that a lot of what you've been trying to do, and a lot of what we've been trying to do before, hasn't brought the results we've been expecting from him. Today, we are also hearing these amazing and outrageous cases of discrimination where, for example, people of Roma origin are not allowed to enter a nightclub. The government doesn't do anything about it. The government doesn't care. But he does not care whether, for example, your failed education policy, the reduction of the school obligation, the weakening of secondary school graduations, the destruction of the vocational training institution system has an impact on the ability of Roma in Hungary to successfully participate in the labour market. You are not interested in how the community service system, which also affects many ruins, keeps these people trapped in poverty. You don't care about any of this. [[10.30]] I propose that we return to this issue even here in Parliament. Let's discuss the experiences of the last 20 years, what can be done, because, understand, I do not intend to punch the government in this matter, and frankly, you give me a number of great reasons to do so beyond that. It is not my intention to prove how incompetent and often unfair you are in this matter. There are a number of times when I can prove this on other subjects. I'm almost saying that it's too important to look at it through anti-government glasses. I propose that we continue to have a substantive debate about this in society and, for example, involve Roma actors who believe that the Roma self-government system in this form has not fulfilled the added hopes and that another institutional system is needed to represent the Roma in Hungary. Let us involve civil society, let us involve researchers who deal with this area, and who, for example, left your anti-segregation round table when it turned out that the purpose of this was not anti-segregation, but only to boast about it sometimes in Parliament. I propose that we find a common solution in this, find the forms in which they will be heard, listen not only to the consensus, but also to the critical opinions, where, at last, the government faces the shame of the European Union's obligation to pursue infringement proceedings against Hungary because it does not respect the rights of Roma children in the field of education. Let's talk about these things, find solutions in these things. It's too big a deal to settle with such a simple government success propaganda. And let me say one more thing about the rights of nationalities and how they feel safe. Ladies and gentlemen, We know that there is one in Hungary that we also believe is of high quality, several cycles, legal regulation as a work of several governments in relation to nationalities. There is a legislation that, indeed, as time goes on, is becoming more and more full of content, and I must say that there is no reason for criticism in this area and there is no reason for criticism, there is progress in the development of national autonomy, of the corresponding cultural institutional system. I certainly appreciate that as a positive. But how safe can nationalities feel about their rights if the rights of four million workers in Hungary can be taken away with a motion from their representatives, without a substantive debate, to prevent Parliament's debate? If trade unions can be excluded from the debate on employers' rights, how safe can nationalities feel about their rights? How much do they have to expect that, if the business interest or the policy will be that, then there will be one or two Fidesz Members who will also present their disbursement in the form of a bill, and there will be a Fidesz and KDNP majority that will vote through Parliament's rules, if this is the order? If there is no rule of law in a country, then everyone's rights can be violated. If there is no legal certainty in a country, then no one's rights are safe. We demand that the slave law be abolished, the kind of legislation that could deprive any social group of its rights at any time in a week or two. This is what we demand, because this is in the interests of all Hungarians, this is in the interests of all European patriots, this is in the interests of the country and this is in the interests of nationalities as well. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2019-02-20-18	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now possible to speak for two minutes. This is the first thing that DK's representative, Imre László, wishes to live with. Here you go.
u2019-02-20-19	Mr President, Dear House, Fellow Members! Ladies and Gentlemen, About a month and a half ago, I attended a conference in Brussels, with my fellow Member from Bajkai, dealing with the integration of the Roma population and its problem. I don't want to tell you that I don't have the opportunity to be overly optimistic about the lessons of this conference, but there was a data that really hit me as a doctor. This was precisely said that the average age of the Roma population was 12 years lower than that of the non-Roma population. I know this has a very complicated background. I do not want to go into this, just in terms of health, and we should mention two factors here. How much responsibility we ourselves feel in order to seek medical attention, we know that this is quite low. We also know that the Roma population is even lower. But it has been said from the head speaker of the MSZP that it has risen to over 400, 422 unfilled GP practices, which makes the basic supply of exactly 630 thousand people uncertain. That's one thing. If we don't solve this, there will be virtually very serious problems. The other one. International research clearly shows that the different loads reduce the body's resilience. This also applies to physical loads. This is about the 400 hours, the overtime bill, which will definitely trigger this 12 years, I don't know how much more it's gonna get. Unfortunately, my two minutes are over, so thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2019-02-20-20	Speaker Ritter Imre, Congressman, please.
u2019-02-20-21	Thank you very much. I do not wish to take away Mr Secretary of State's bread by answering, but let me briefly answer three things. On the one hand, I give Mr János Bencsik the assurance of the two-thirds majority. When the National Government of Germans decided in April 2017 that it was a strategic issue for us to have a Member of Parliament in Parliament, the sharpest thing was obviously that we would have the voting rights of future representatives. In the summer of 2017, one year before the 18th election, we discussed it several times with the general assembly of the national government, that, as a general rule, the right to vote with the parliamentary representatives on matters of nationality is clearly in the interests of nationalities, and in matters of non-ethnicity, if the future and current Hungarian government makes a nationality policy on which we, nationalities in Hungary, consider that this is good for us and that we can move forward, we will vote in favour of the current government, as a general rule. We said that a year before the election, and we would have held that even if there was any result of the election, because the point after that is what nationality policy the government is doing. That's what I'd like to say. I know that Congressman is new to Parliament, and from the Jobbik we discussed this with last year, the leaders of Jobbik and their nationalities rapporteurs, Gábor Staudt and István Szávay, are no longer in Jobbik and they are not in Parliament, but I would like that to be made clear to everyone who could not have done so. So this is not my personal decision, this is the decision of the General Assembly of the National Government of the Germans of Hungary, a year and a half ago. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-02-20-22	Congressman Antal Csárdi, LMP.
u2019-02-20-23	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Let me ask you, Mr Speaker, if you understand correctly: if the government is conducting a proper and sympathetic governance along the interests of nationalities, can a slave law be voted? I don't see the connection, and I just have one such respectful question, a poetic question about how other decisions are related to national decisions, whether or not they can be dealt with in one way or another. Thank you very much.
u2019-02-20-24	Mr. Félix Wolf Spokesperson, please.
u2019-02-20-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I am very pleased that the Roma issue is very important to everyone in this debate. I should have, and I'm talking to the MSZP congressman when you're steering. At the time, the majority of the Roma did not work because they did not have jobs. [[Intercoms from opposition lines.]] During this period, honourable Member, a very large proportion of the Roma live from work. [[10.40]] Many Roma entrepreneurs leave home to work anywhere in the country. They can get in a car and go and work to support their families. It would have been that way even if you gave them the opportunity. Is diversity, diversity of nationalities, the ideology that you represent very important to the better Member? [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] That's not real to me. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Fortunately, the Roma do not think like you! László Szászfalvi: Let's listen to the other one!]] 'Cause then, in 1991, what I said to Parliament on Monday, someone from your party, [[Interview from Jobbik's ranks: 1991?]] He went and assaulted a disabled man... [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: The people who make a living?]] No, no, you make a living. [[The president's ringing the bell. János Bencsik, Jobbik: Violent criminal!]] I'm gonna report you for this. [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks. Dániel Z. Carpathian: How long have they been talking to each other?]] Let's keep the congressman modest, shall we? ! Be modest. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: He thinks you can have everything when...]] What you've done is outrageous! [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: What have we done?]] Fear has been raised not only in the Roma, but also in the Roma. [[Interjection: in everyone! The president's ringing the bell.]] In everyone, that's right. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2019-02-20-26	Now, please, this debate can, of course, be continued, just not in this time frame, because two minutes is two minutes away from taking two minutes. Thank you very much. But to anyone who wishes to speak, the debate provides space and opportunity. No one else needs a two-minute speech right now. Thus, we will continue the work with speeches from Members who have asked for a normal word. Mr László Hajdu is the first among these Members, no matter how surprising it may be for the Member. Then I'll announce that Congressman Szilágyi can come. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-02-20-27	Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Speaking Lords! Based on my experience from practice, I would like to address the report and perhaps the proposal for a decision, but in particular the report. It was not much said that in 1994, when the law on minority self-governments was established and the first minority self-governments were elected, it was 24 years ago. So we have 24 years of experience and practice in that, in the meantime, we have changed the name, we have turned the minority into a national, but we are talking about a legal institution and a living practice with virtually a great deal of experience. In my constituency in 94 there were eight so-called minority self-governments, and now there are eight minority self-governments, and I turn primarily towards the advocates because there are incredible differences between the number of national minority self-governments and their activity, and the funding that the Secretary of State mentioned in his report does not reflect this. It is also true that, with the establishment of the Klebelsberg Kunó Institution Provider, the municipalities, which have not been mentioned very much in this report, but, if I may say, the national authorities carry out their tasks 85 percent with the help of local authorities. If a minority self-government is working well somewhere, there is very good cooperation with the local government. Without a local government, there is no minority self-government, there is no exception, as in Tótszentmárton, where there is a majority of nationality in the whole municipality, and the board meeting is held in Croatian, that is the rare case. There's a few of them. But it is in fact a very important task for the municipalities, and it is also in their important interest to cooperate well. In the report, the Minister of State neglected the role of local governments a little, because the municipalities provide financial support, some municipalities provide sceneful financial support to local minorities; they provide non-cash support, so they provide cultural houses, they provide a variety of vocalizations, the events are organised by the local governments, the national government is included in the event plan, as a tradition that every year nationalities have a nationality day or a breakdown, where there are so many as in my constituency, where there are eight, there are two or three minority municipal events in one year, and there is always someone else for the gesture, and there are professional organizers. I think it is important that, as long as public education was in the hands of the municipalities, we have seen how national education is taking place. The German nationality has been at the forefront of this from the very beginning. When the Klebelsberg Kunó Institutional Manager took the schools from us, there were eight independent ethnic departments, I understand that there are now 12 separate ethnic classes. These children study at a level that makes primary school value-oriented, everyone wants to get into a school where German nationality as an extra material is taught as a two-teaching school. The final result, by the way, is the same with my better fellow Member, that these children are graduating from Germany, and if they cannot get admission, they will be able to work in the German language area immediately afterwards, and the leaver is very important among them. But this value, which they have received, is not that only German ethnicities study, but anyone with a Hungarian native language, who does not have a relative in the German language area, can learn ethnic education. However, we cannot achieve it, and, Mr State Secretary, the Roma issue has just been mentioned here, so that the same can be achieved in the education of the Roma language. This would mean a lot in interpreting Roma culture, in caring for Roma traditions, because it is the most important part if you want to cultivate your culture so that you can speak your language. And we can't solve this with the Roma language. I would also like to mention some problems that have not been mentioned here, but are real, living, everyday problems. One is called prejudice in two ways. One of them is that between the national authorities... you are now sitting in the same line, but we have wanted to build a nationality house for years. There is no nationality house in the XV. I am talking in the district because nationalities have said that if the Roma are there, there is no nationality house, we do not participate in it, give it to us separately and to the Roma separately. One of the prejudices begins with nationalities. Another prejudice is what happens in the workplaces. In my district, we do not count this, but according to estimated data from sociological surveys, there are about 5,000 Roma living in the constituency. This means that there are a significant number of unemployed people. We hear here, of course, that it is disappearing slowly, there is no unemployment, we are also bringing in labour because there is no labour force, but there is very high unemployment, especially in the case of the Roma. It has been said that vocational training affects Roma nationality in the first place, because they have been able to learn simple construction and many other manual professions, and this training is actually throwing these children away, they cannot get a profession, and unskilled jobs do not take them. But the main reason is that there is a prejudice here too. [[10.50]] A specific example, not too old: for an inn hour, an elegant girl arrived, who said that she had graduated from high school, but since then she has not been able to get a job. He graduated from high school last year and showed up at a host hour last year before Christmas. He asked me to help him get settled. She's in high school. I asked you what you could do. He said kitchen work, cleaning work, everything. Before that, I was at one of the companies where they said they were looking for a cleaning job. This is a place for ladies to go. I offered him, I gave him the phone number, everything, and he went in there. I'm glad we worked this out. It was information the day before. I gave you the manager's name. The next day, I got a call from the company manager and he said, "Laci, listen, you didn't tell me this was a gypsy." Well, gypsy won't work for us. We're talking about a high school graduate. This prejudice also makes it difficult to solve the problem, I think. I think it is very important for the national government to have the task of being more combatant in this regard. 'Cause he was a fighter in that, I heard him talking to the Jobbik yesterday, Mr. Felix the Wolf, but I've never heard him give a big speech against prejudice. You could make a huge speech. Mr. Flórian Farkas didn't show up to listen to the report, and I'm guessing he doesn't care much about that. Finally, I would also like to talk about the financing part. I mentioned that the municipalities provide financial and non-cash support, which, forinted, is much more significant at a constituencies level than what the Secretary of State said in his report, which is what nationalities receive at local level. It's much more important. I've written it out for myself, which nationality gets what, who gets the least. The Roma get the least of it. They've got 5,000, and they've got the least. There's work and there's work, and there's so-called individual treatment, and that's what they're bad about, individual treatment. Maybe the colour of our district is wrong, and it's also a prejudice that the colour of the district is wrong, and that's why they can't get any money. But if I take into account that when they were minority self-governments and received them in a normative way, so the municipality was obliged to give each minority the same amount of money as it was normatively determined from the state budget, well, it is not better now than that. If I take inflation into account, the situation has not changed in the last 24 years, the same amount of money. Nothing has changed, as much money will be given to nationalities. Finally, I would like to say that those who do this work locally at district level in the national minority authorities are very enthusiastic local patriots of the particular nationality. Among them there are prominent ones, Croatians, Germans, and Roma nationalities. But in our case, the Armenians and the Greeks are also outstanding. So fortunately, there are very good ethnic activists, elected officials. In the framework of this report, let us not forget them, but also thank them for their work. I thank you for your work, but it must be said that this minority minority self-government world is working with a great deal of care. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2019-02-20-28	Thank you very much. Congressman György Szilágyi, notary of the Parliament, Representative Jobbik. Here you go.
u2019-02-20-29	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, We are discussing a very important item on the agenda here, because, in accordance with the law on the status of nationalities, the government, as you say, reviews the situation of nationalities in Hungary every two years and reports it to the Parliament. That's what we're arguing about. In the introduction, you say that the present report intends to provide a comprehensive picture of everything that has happened in the area of domestic nationality policy over the last two years. Indeed, it is important to look at two years, to look at the different stages, to see when the government determines what goals it intends to achieve with different laws and regulations, to achieve these goals, and things are really going in the right direction, so that the nationalities who live here as Hungarians feel as much as possible in the country can preserve their identity, culture and everything else that belongs to it. It is also very important that the current government and society provide resources to ensure that these objectives are achieved as much as possible. We fully agree with these. And it is also very important that if one of the nationalities needs help, then the government and Hungarian society are constantly helping it. Here's my problem about you saying that you have a comprehensive picture. The overall picture includes the minority minority of Hungarian minorities, the Roma minority, whose programme was one of the most important and pretty big storms in the world of work. I hit the search engine to see if the word "bridge" is released into the world of work. But he didn't. You have not written a single half sentence in this regard. The overall picture was not mentioned in any half sentence about what happened with this program. If you'll allow me, I'd like to deal with this right now, and I'd like to respond to what Mr Felix Farkas just said, and then let's really do this; he went back to 1991. I would just like to mention two things about this that were untrue from your mouth. The gentleman you were talking about wasn't disabled at all. He was a gentleman who lived a criminal life. If you look into it, you'll see that this gentleman was brought from prison to the trial you mentioned, and that's where he was telling you things. But speaking of criminals and prisons, my biggest problem is that you have never once stood up in this House, and you have never once told me, and you have not asked the government to tell me that if the government wants to help the Roma who are in a really difficult situation with serious financial sacrifices, why these funds never go where they should be stolen. You have never said where a significant part of the money that is really needed to catch up with the Roma, their integration and the like disappears. You have never stood up in this House, and then we are talking about criminals asking the government to tell you why a criminal is being entrusted to catch up with the Roma. I can safely say criminal, because Flórian Farkas is a common criminal. You know that. He was in prison in the '70s. He was convicted three times by the court of Flória Farkas as a criminal, and he was in prison. And if you had mentioned the nineties, you could have mentioned it, stood up at any time and asked the government why the minister of the Roma case, who would have been convicted of infidel treatment and embezzlement in the nineties, had been pardoned by the President of the Republic in the middle of the nineties, which had been sealed for thirty years. Why didn't you ask? Or why didn't you ask me now where the Wolf Flora was who was responsible for these things during this period? Why don't you ask him why he, as a Member of Parliament, isn't in Parliament? Why don't you listen to these debates and talk to them? And why don't you tell us where the 1.6 billion, 1600 million forints that the Bridge should have been used as a programme for bringing as many people belonging to the Roma minority back to the world of work as possible, which would be very important for Hungarian society? ! Why don't you ask me these questions? ! You should not be able to make different requests about how you might put Jobbik in an awkward position, but you are sitting here as a spokesperson to represent the interests of the Roma. What I said would be in the interest of the Roma. It would be in the interests of the Roma if that HUF 1600 million had been put there, it would have been used for what it was meant to do. It would also have been in the interest of the majority society, since EMMI found these serious abuses. [[11.00]] The EMMI demanded back the 1600 million forints from this cooperative. And then how did they pay you back to the EMMI? By getting a gift from the government, the majority society, who even paid for this money, so they put it out of one pocket. So 1,600 million forints disappeared, which should have been spent on the Roma minority, was defined as a goal. Why don't you stand up and ask them to be accounted for? That's your job. This would be his job, which would require that the Roma, for example, have a better life in Hungary. Because not only this 1,600 million have disappeared in the last 30 years, but many, many 1,600 million! A lot of money's gone. All of which should have been used for what was defined by the then government, and should have been used in accordance with the purpose at that time. So here come the problems! Here come the problems when you are superficially representing the social class that you should be fighting to represent here. When you once ask me why Flórian Farkas is not here, ask me where these money went, or why the government has entrusted him with the management of these funds to such a man, you will have the right to call yourself an advocate at any time, I think. As long as you do not do so, you will just sit here in Parliament and, according to certain requests, sometimes say a sentence or two. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-02-20-30	Dear Parliament, I did not wish to interfere in Mr. Note's speech, because what I am saying is not for him or just for him. This item is about the situation of nationalities in Hungary, not one person and not one person. Therefore, I would like to ask with respect those who would like to speak later to give their views on this item on the agenda. Now it's Congressman Gergely Arató's turn. Here you go.
u2019-02-20-31	Thank you very much. Then I won't mention Mr. Spokesman. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea is laughing.]] However, since the report also concerns the situation of Roma in Hungary, allow me, Mr President, to say a few words about this. Dear House, The fact is that, of course, it is possible to say that the Roma have not worked before, but how good they are now and how many of them can work. It's just that we all know what's really going on. It is clear that a good part of the Roma in Hungary can work in public works programmes, in public works programmes that lead from nothing to nothing, which do not allow access to the market segment of the labour market, and which, moreover, make this layer vulnerable, these people from the fact that the high government is providing a local government or now an entrepreneur, and who exactly the local government is giving work from this framework to. This is not the path to liberation, emancipation, equal opportunities, but the path to the preservation of dependence, decompression and misery. I think that if we talk about the situation of Roma in the labour market, that is what we need to talk about. We have to talk about the fact that the Roma also have a process that is typical of the Hungarian society as a whole, that those who have marketable, competitive or adequate skills, or who are just sufficiently adventurous, will start from this country. This is the same for Roma as for non-Roma. We also lose the most talented young people in the case of the Roma, the replacement of the finally established Roma intellectuals, because they go to a country where they do not face the fact that Hungary belongs to the Hungarians, and they go to a country where they can otherwise live decently from decent work. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] If someone and I do not name a spokesperson, perhaps he will take the trouble to talk to the Roma who work in the competition sector, then he will hear from them how much difficulty and discrimination they face in the labour market. These are the cases that should be discussed here if we are talking about the situation of the Roma. Mr László Hajdu also gave an example. I think that putting our heads in the sand and singing it all around together, that everything is very nice, everything is very good, it doesn't make much sense, because it doesn't help the Roma in Hungary and doesn't help this country. Thank you very much.
u2019-02-20-32	Thank you, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, We have a speech in the ordinary timeframe, Mr János Bencsik, Jobbik Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-02-20-33	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, I would like to reflect on Mr Ritter and Mr Wolf's speech. Mr Ritter said that they are in favour of the ethnic policy of the current Hungarian government, and this supporting position does not come from you, but is based on the authority of German nationality in Hungary. When I said that you were a guarantee of the two-thirds majority of governments, I did not convey my own judgment, but that you and unfortunately the German community in Hungary appear to the public in this way. What's the reason for this? First of all, you are voting in favour of laws that are not, by the way, in matters of nationality. For example, he voted in favour of the introduction of administrative courts, which are practically the first step in the destruction and disintegration of independent Hungarian justice and the court, and voted in favour of the closure of the housing savings banks. Thus, after such votes, it is difficult for a person to position himself in such a way that he does not want, does not participate in internal politics, but only represents matters of nationality. But, by the way, while we are on national affairs, I would like to ask Mr Ritter, for example, in relation to censuses, on the question of eliminating the anonymity of nationalities, which was on the agenda, for example, why he abstained and why he did not press a non-button. I really want to hear your opinion on why, let's say, the German minority community in Hungary has an interest in eliminating anonymity. In response to Mr. Wolf, I would like to clarify a misunderstanding. Congressman, I didn't call you a criminal. Maybe you heard that wrong. I said that the man you were talking about, as the fidesz propaganda pressed on the faucet, wherever it would fit, that the president of Jobbik had a fight in 1991. [[He's using his hand to show the quotes.]] With a man with reduced mobility, this man with reduced mobility was a criminal, so let's just say it. He was a criminal who was in prison before and after the conflict. So let's not pretend we're talking about an innocent, helpless man. We are talking about a criminal, and my colleague Szilágyi has made that clear. I think it is important to emphasise this. As a matter of fact, you are grateful to the government, so you said that Gypsies can go to work; I do not know why you may not raise your voice against it as a representative of the Roma minority; you consider this to be a good procedure, that the majority of Gypsies in Hungary today are working for wages, that they force you to work in public work, that you often receive a humiliating salary for public work, and that this salary is not normally available in Hungary today. Why doesn't he say, for example, that the Roma should receive a decent wage for the work they have done, which they shouldn't have to do by taking an overtime, if they get a job at all, and they don't do public work, but they have a decent job, so why don't they get a decent wage for the work they've done, why they're forced to work too hard. Or what my fellow Member Szilágyi said, for example, why they do not speak out against institutionalized corruption, which, by the way, works with the help of Roma leaders, but the same person and sufferer is the Roma community, because they themselves do not have access to these funds for catching up. I think that if you take the work of your representatives seriously, instead of stigmatizing better politicians and storming out against them, you might be able to, say, address such issues. By the way, in general, you gave me a good advice as the first Member to speak. I can advise you that Nazis and collective stigmas lead you in a very bad way, hatred is a bad advisor, and if you ask the other Members not to use collective stigma, we ask you to do the same and we expect you to do the same. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-02-20-34	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman Ritter Imre has made a statement in a normal time frame. You have the floor. [[11.10]]
u2019-02-20-35	Thank you very much. I would like to say to Mr János Bencsik that this is indeed not the agenda, and I have only told you, as a fact, why I am voting like this as a German Member. The background and justification of this can be very welcome, even after this meeting, and I will explain it, because it is the only possible way for a nationality and a nationality representative to exercise their right to vote. I would be very happy to do this afterwards, and that is the answer to Mr Csárdi. Let me respond to three more things, which is an absolute professional question. This is a two-year summary, where I once again confirm that this will be confirmed later by others, that there have been historical changes in the situation and perception of nationalities in Hungary. Regardless, as I indicated, there are still very serious, tense tasks. If you look back at Parliament's contributions over the last five years, for example, we have fought for four years in the early printing, evaluation and payment of grants to be issued in September instead of an advent ban, a decision in August and a payment in the following year, to have a decision made by the end of the year, and to have it fully paid at the beginning of the year. Because of last year's restructuring, Gábor Bethlen, I thought there was going to be another delay, fortunately not so much. I very much hope that the evaluations and payments will continue in the future. One of our most pressing problems with leaving abroad, which is why we have now introduced a scholarship to the teaching course of national education on 1 September, and I can tell you that we now know for sure that at least 86 Serbian, Croatian, German, Roma, Slovak ethnic teachers will start their work in Hungary on 1 September 2021. We've never been able to tell you this before, no matter how many people took part in the training. Similarly, regarding the increase in the minority pedagogue bonus, we have always said that obviously we will not solve everything with this, but we have taken a significant step from 10 to 30 percent, and I remember very well that in the amendment of the Public Education Act, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and Gergely Arató also asked and suggested why we do not make differentiation. I hope that we can make an additional 10% increase this year, extend the scope of entitlement to include everyone who should be included and introduce a differentiation. But I must point out that this is just another very important step to achieve the ultimate goal. I also absolutely agree with the fact that the development of the minority institutional network, first and foremost of the public education institutions, is a fundamental issue, and what Mr Hajdu said is that there are also non-ethnic children involved in this. Of course, our aim is not to involve children of nationality in ethnic institutions, ethnic education and education, but these institutions are open. Of course, those who undertake national education and agree with the values are open to everyone in principle and in practice, and we do not want to change that in the future. Finally, one more professional remark, if you like what Gergely Arató said, I fully agree that the subsidies granted to nationalities are not donations, but the law. In fact, in the case of national minority public education institutions, where national authorities have taken over the rights of the institution-keeping and the rights of the trustee from local authorities or the state, and since local national authorities do not have their own income, it is obviously the duty of the State to provide the necessary financial resources for the maintenance, renewal, investment and, if necessary, expansion of these institutions. This is the fundamental duty and interest of the Hungarian state in the interests of children, and now more than 15,000 children go to a kindergarten, kindergarten, where the national minority self-government and the institution's trustee are also national minority self-governments. I also think that, if you look back on education, it was in the budget discussions of 19 and 18 that for several days, for 40-50 minutes, I told you in detail, for example, how tragic, more than 40 per cent shortage there is in national education. That's why we took out the scholarship system, the minority bonus increase, and all that stuff. And it's a long process, because those who have just started their kindergarten teacher training on 1 September will be out of college in 3 years, and the children they raised will be out of kindergarten in 7 years, then they will be out of primary school in 15 years, 19 years from high school, and 20 years from now will be going to the first child who has received a real ethnic education and education from kindergarten. So it's a long-term process, we're at the first stage of this, but we're finally there, because even two years ago, no one could tell us how much kindergarten teacher is missing at all. Now we know exactly, and we are trying to take action accordingly. But once again, I return to the fact that this is a two-year report, every single problem that pushes us, and which we continue to take only the first steps in some places, in the Public Education Act, the Budget Act and the rest, everywhere, I think we are trying to provide maximum factual exploration and factual information based on surveys, and on this we are trying to demand, speed up the steps, whether organizational, legal changes, financial and other support, that is necessary to move as quickly as possible, because we are in a lot of things at 24 hours. But with regard to the two-year government report on nationalities, I think that if it can be expressed in a sentence, who demands and asks, and who receives, even if it is rightly received, thank him. That's how I learned, and that's what I'm gonna do. This does not mean that in just a few weeks' time in the debate on the 2020 Finance Act, of course, we will not raise our problems in detail or initiate a solution to them. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-20-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members if they would like to take another opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The joint general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Miklós Soltész, State Secretary, if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2019-02-20-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to thank Mr Imre Ritter for his contribution and then for his new application and comment, which is absolutely fair and relevant. We felt that you were being provoked. I don't understand why that was necessary. We are after a two-year report and the period of that report is 2015-2017. Of course, I know that the genre of the general debate can cover a lot of things, and I will answer you accordingly. However, I would like to thank Mr Félix Farkas for his work and for his work, as he has said, as a notary and a betterman, and I thank him for the work that he has done so far, for the Roma, for the Gypsy nationality. [[János Bencsik, Jobbik: Deliver the votes!]] Do what you can in the future. Thank you, Tamás Herczeg and László Szászfalvi, for their contributions, who have all supported this two-year report, absolutely on the ground of reality. [[11.20]] And if I can get to the opposition, I'll start with Jobbik. On Jobbik's ethnic and Roma policy, I think there is no need to talk too much. The racist practice you've always had, alive, here in Parliament, through the media. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: And is there no racism in your politics? Dániel Z. Carpathian: Why didn't you stand up during the debate? Laszlo Szászfalvi intervenes.]] In practice, we have been given a taste of it again. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Their lead speaker, János Bencsik, as a fresh Member, launched another attack, first against the Roma advocate, which we reject. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Why didn't you refuse then? Why were you sitting there?]] And then against Congressman Ritter Imre. Interestingly, you have not protested for a minute about the decision that Imre Ritter spoke about, that the German minority self-government announced well before the elections the future ambition that it is now implementing in practice. At that time, you sought government, you said everywhere that you would be in government, you are the majority. We know how much you've received, and how you've managed this period in the last few months, how Jobbik is sinking down. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Not to mention election fraud. Z. Carpathian Daniel: Worry about yourselves!]] But then you didn't object, either to Jobbik or to any opposition party, that the German minority government had already decided in advance, and it would have made no difference to them that the Fidesz-KDNP government would now have been supported by the opposition parties in the government in the decisions in which, if a non-voting person had been given the opportunity to vote now, it would have made no difference to them. So interesting is your practice: absolutely inconsistent. I would add that the threatening shouting of Andrea Varga-Damm is unacceptable. Unacceptable is what the advocate [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Tell you what I threatened. Tell me what I threatened to do. What did I threaten? Don't lie to me.]] Mr President, you are taking action against the Roma advocate. All this proves is that it's the cooperation that...
u2019-02-20-38	Madam Congresswoman, the debate is closed. Now the answer will be heard. Please acknowledge this. I'm done arguing. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: He's taking advantage of it. The Secretary of State is lying! Z. Carpathian Daniel: Brave Warrior! You're the majority! János Bencsik, Jobbik: Not elegant! The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2019-02-20-39	...the cooperation between Jobbik and DK only proved that the contributions that were not made by all DK representatives, but mostly by Gergely Arató, were not different from those made by Jobbik in this area. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes. Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: He's lying! He's lying all the time! Gergely Arató: Don't insult Jobbik, Mr. Secretary of State.]] What you are doing here in Parliament clearly confirms the many, many surveys that Jobbik is the most racist party [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Excellent after Fidesz!]] And on a subject like this, they were able to prove the reality of everything. In fact, we thank you for this certificate. On the other hand, it is very sad that the very serious work of the thirteen Hungarian ethnic groups, their very serious presence in Hungary and their co-existence with the Hungarian majority, have been ridiculed to such an extent as they have behaved now. [[Z. Carpathian-Daniel: Where is the HUF 1.5 billion? Where's the one and a half billion? Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Where are the other speakers? They don't care either.]] Although only part of this is involved, Mr János Bencsik again mentioned Hungarians across the border. I'd like to ask you to mention them the least. You were the ones who seriously violated them in the election campaign. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: You buy the local janichars!]] and I would add that Jobbik, like many others, has sunk away from the European Union initiative on the protection of minorities. So don't tell me, Congressman, how much you need to support this. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Pathetic! You're a coward! Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: When he's out of power, we'll see how big his mouth is. The president's ringing the bell.]] In fact, I do not think that there is anything that needs to be highlighted in the voice of Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély MSZP. Congresswoman, I suggest you continue with your spontaneous practice on the floor that you've been making up and doing. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Is that your argument? That's your point. Is that what taxpayers pay you for? Dániel Z. Carpathian: Such a gentleman!]] because what you've added here, to this debate, you have to say it was pathetic and pathetic. [[Z. Carpathian-Daniel intervenes.]] Congressman Gergely Arató told me a lot of things. Although he wasn't even in on my report, he must have watched it on TV. [[Gergely Arató: There are such things as the Internet, Mr. Secretary of State!]] But he didn't listen, he didn't listen, and he didn't realize the extent to which national support has changed compared to your governance. [[Gergely Harvestó: I answered it!]] He did not pay attention, he did not notice, nor does he want to notice the extent to which national institutions have increased compared to your governance, nationalities who have relations with the mother country and many other things, such as the support of their civil society organisations. Just as you want to deny fully what distinguishes your Roma policy and our Roma policy from each other. One of the most important and serious is that you wanted and want to keep the Roma in poverty. [[Gergely Harvesto: I must say you're lying! You're actually lying! Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes. The president's ringing the bell. Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Use this unfortunate society!]] They were set up for relief. [[The president's ringing again.]] And I would just like to say that when you talk about racism, you accuse anyone in this government or even in this political community, I would just like to tell you that the terrible time of the Roma murders was right under your government, and the most shameful thing is that you have done almost nothing to land everything, either politically or otherwise. [[Gergely Harvesto: We've captured the killers! Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] And it's kind of sad. The fact that the programme and the school programme were launched at your time is not disputed by anyone. There is only one bug in this, honourable Member, that in 2010 the European Union money that was spent on it, by the way, quite rightly, ran out. Because you didn't make sure there was a way to continue an otherwise really good program. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: You ruined it! Dr. Varga-Damm Andra, you stole it! They stole the money! Dániel Z. Carpathian: Try to act like a man!]] Varga-Damm Andrea, have some water, please, because I'm not talking to you right now, and I'm talking to you about something that you didn't mention. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: What a coward! Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Mr President! It's always personal.]] Honourable Congressman, What we were able to do in 2010 with these two, by the way, is stress once again, with an important and good programme, is that we have completely fixed and predictable funding behind it, resulting in a much better operation, reaching much more children, helping a lot more people in their lives. [[Gergely Harvestó: They waited years for their money! You're kidding. László Szászfalvi: Hungarian source!]] They're helping him in his life, so please think about it a little bit. And for that, as an MSZP and DK ex-liberal representative, I wouldn't say a word. [[Gergely Harvesto: You certainly weren't a DK.]] What was the Roma occupation? Roma Employment in Your Time [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Why did you do the Pearl Foundation?]] There was almost nothing, in public work, 5 percent of it could go to the labour market. Now more than 20 percent of the Roma people are passing through. [[Laszlo Szászfalvi: True, true! That's right!]] This is the real catch-up, honourable Member, it is not the division of aids, we give aid, and the result of what we have seen is the result. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mr László Imre for a part of his speech, because he mostly praised and spoke positively about the work of national minority advocates, the work of national minority representatives, the work of national minority self-governments. And thank you very much for your comment on the health situation of our fellow countrymen of Roma origin. It is indeed a very important question. You know that this is not only a question in Hungary. You know that this is a specific issue throughout Central Europe, Eastern Europe, and even in Western European Roma communities. And in this regard, I believe that everything that is good for majority society is good for gypsy. If health improvements are made, if health resources are increased, at a much higher rate than under the previous social-liberal government, it will also help the lives of Roma people and their health situation. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Have you seen the numbers? Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] I would like to thank Mr László Hajdu for his contribution, indeed, in a sober and balanced manner, but rather as a genre of parliamentary reception and reporting. He said things out of practice, but let's just say the comments he made weren't entirely accurate. [[Gergely Harvesto: You also insult the kind person who is nice to you! Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Why should I be personal?]] Dear Parliament, Mr President, Thank you very much for your attention, although my report, once again, was about the 2015-17s, and the opposition did not add much to this, because it did not vote in favour of the budget with which we supported nationalities at the time. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: It's not because he was in the budget. That's why! Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] This report was, however, a very important event, a very important point in the lives of nationalities, and it would be good if, in the future, the opposition could not only yell at and criticize everything, but, for example, vote on the budget that will apply to nationalities. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: There is no special budget for nationalities!]] It would be good for Jobbik to stop threatening nationalities in his actions and in his words. In this case, for example, as they tried to provoke the Roma national minority advocate, and as they tried to provoke the national representative, Imre Ritter [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: You could be a little braver!]] It would be better if this did not happen in the future. [[11.30]] In addition, the government will continue to support the educational, cultural, religious and other aspirations of nationalities, which will serve the survival of all nationalities. Thank you very much for your work, thank you very much for your cooperation. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-02-20-40	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Vejkey, President of the Judicial Committee, to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Mr. President.
u2019-02-20-41	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Much has been said in the debate, mostly something that was not part of the debate. It is indeed about the implementation of a two-year programme. I believe that those who have actually read the government's report, those who have read the decision of the Justice Committee in this regard and those who have listened to the actual stakeholders in this debate, whether the advocates, in particular the Roma minority advocate, or the German minority representative Imre Ritter, can draw the appropriate conclusion from today's debate, and can conclude that the presentation of the government is indeed correct and that the decision of the Justice Committee is indeed correct. I therefore ask my fellow Members to vote for it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-02-20-42	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The general discussion of the bill between the International Investment Bank and the Government of Hungary on the publication of the Agreement on the seat of the International Investment Bank in Hungary until its closure. The government referral is T/4476. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Gábor Gion, Minister of State of the Ministry of Finance, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2019-02-20-43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, The aim of the bill is to ensure the recognition of the mandatory scope of the agreement on the establishment of the seat of the International Investment Bank in Hungary. Further, if I may, I would refer to the International Investment Bank as IBB. At the same time, the proposal provides for the 2015 XLI, which announces the Bank's Statute and Statutes. the amendment of the text of the Act and its entry into force. This provision amends the text of the Bank's statutes in accordance with the new seat. Honourable Members, Four years ago, when we submitted a bill on the renewal of our membership of the NBB, we said that the bank was in the middle of a radical transformation and modernisation, to which Hungary was able to join under mutually beneficial conditions. In the period since then, the strategic cycle for restarting and renewing the bank has been successfully completed. By now, the balance sheet of the financial institution has increased by one and a half times and the development loan portfolio has more than doubled. Its operation complies with the highest international standards, which are also recognised by international credit rating agencies. Since our re-accession, the total amount of funds provided by the NBB to Hungarian companies has been close to EUR 100 million. Not only did the bank's operation become fully international, but our accession also changed the shareholder structure of the bank. The combined share of Central European countries in paid-up capital is already more than 50 per cent. As the completion of the modernisation, the new Statute of the Bank came into force in 2018, which, in accordance with relevant international practice, binds the voting weight of owners in strategic decision-making bodies to equity holdings, i.e. the voting rights of the Central European countries also exceed 50%. Central European EU countries are therefore an unavoidable factor in the decision-making of the NBB. The bank's operational management also has a majority of EU citizens, its medium- and long-term strategy and its day-to-day functioning in line with the EU's focus. We believe that this process will be strengthened by transferring the seat to Budapest. Dear Parliament, Based on what has been said, we can say that all of this process is the same as the Hungarian government's undisclosed purpose, as it is necessary to develop Budapest into an international financial centre within our region. The bank's owners and the bank's intention to relocate the bank to countries which are less exposed to global economic and financial risks and which allow for better access to international financial resources was expressed years ago. From the Hungarian part, we have sought to play an active, decisive role in the strategic direction since our re-accession. The possibility of moving to Hungary was discussed in strategic negotiations with the bank's shareholders. The Hungarian initiative was supported, and after a rather intensive preparatory work, the Board of Governors of the NBB unanimously approved the relocation of the seat to Budapest in December 2008 and authorised the President of the Bank to write the headquarters agreement. The location in Budapest is expected to significantly increase the proportion of the Hungarian labour force in the institution, and at present there are 120 staff working in the bank, and this is expected to increase with the expansion of the bank's activities. In addition to the Hungarian influence on the bank, it is expected that the bank's competitiveness and international perception will also improve. This was confirmed by Moody and Fitch on an international credit rating team, who responded to the announcement of the move and highlighted the positive impact of this, which is obviously a compliment to Hungary as well. The move of the bank to an EU country is expected to reduce the funding and operating costs of the NBB. At the same time, it will also improve cooperation with other European supranational public and commercial banks and their overall assessment. As a result, the amount of loans that the bank can allocate is expected to continue to increase and their pricing can be more favourable, which can ultimately also apply in the form of favourable conditions for loans offered to Hungarian companies. By moving the bank to Hungary, an important multilateral institution will enrich the Hungarian financial portfolio, which can also contribute to the international market access of Hungarian companies. Home companies can be more easily informed about international investments and conditions of participation financed or seen by the NBB. Furthermore, the bank creates additional assets for the Hungarian State, which is now the third largest shareholder of the bank, through its efficient operation. Accordingly, the agreement brings profits for everyone, the bank benefits from a business perspective, and the shareholders, including Hungary, will benefit, and last but not least, Hungarian businesses will also benefit. Honourable Members, The seat agreement signed on 5 February 2019 shall be a balanced document taking into account the interests of all parties in a proportionate manner. Its rights and obligations, the privileges and immunities of the bank are based on the Statute of the NBB and the Vienna Convention on diplomatic relations in 1961. The contract states that Hungary will grant aid to ensure the establishment of the bank. The exact extent of this is not yet known, and negotiations on temporary and permanent seat placement are still under way. However, in determining the form of the government contribution, our aim is to increase Hungary's share in paid-up capital in exchange for the contribution, so that we have greater influence on strategic decision-making. [[11.40]] The precise level will be determined in a reasonable manner, taking into account the margin provided by the budget. Dear Parliament, With the adoption of the bill, with the entry into force of the headquarters agreement contained in it, the seat of the International Investment Bank can start operating in Hungary. One more important point: Hungary will be a member of a very limited number of clubs, since five supranational development banks are currently established in the European Union, none of which are in Central Europe. Through its headquarters in Budapest, NBB will be the first in the region to host an international financial institution. Moving to Hungary is therefore also a recognition to the Hungarian financial government, the economic policy followed in the last 8 years, including the recognition of the success of financial policy and the confirmation by the bank and the bank's owners. I therefore ask you to support and accept the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-20-44	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Zsigmond, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-02-20-45	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The International Investment Bank, which currently has 10 members, was established in 1970 and Hungary is one of the founding countries. It is a multinational development bank which aims to strengthen social and economic development, prosperity and economic cooperation between Member States. Its main activity is, as has been said, support for small and medium-sized enterprises and participation in socially and financially important infrastructure projects. So far, Moscow has been the seat of this organization, but in the autumn of 2018 the government proposed to the Member States and the Executive Board of the International Investment Bank to relocate its seat to Budapest. Currently, there are several major development banks in Europe, such as the Black Sea Trade and Development Bank or the Council of Europe Development Bank, but none in the Eastern Central European region. As the bank is in an expanding phase, it can be seen that it will choose a new seat for itself, where there is strong economic growth and where the operating and economic environment is appropriate. That is why Hungary's capital city, Budapest, was chosen. This proposal is in the interests of all the members, and it demonstrates that the proposal was adopted unanimously. On 5 January 2019 Minister for Finance Mihály Varga and President of the International Investment Bank Nikolai Kosov signed an agreement whereby the head office of the organization would move from Moscow to Budapest. With its European headquarters, the bank can become more involved in European financial life and build an effective relationship with European and international development banks, and thus play a significant role in helping businesses in Eastern Europe and Central Europe more effectively. Nikolai Kosov called the relocation of the seat a historic step. This agreement is of strategic importance for the future development of the bank and strengthens the Bank's privileged international status. Several leading international credit rating agencies have highlighted future positive effects and the expected reduction in fundraising costs. The agreement is also of strategic importance for the further development of Hungary and Budapest. The agreement to be announced will cover in detail, among other things, the status of the bank, the precise definition of the office building and the facilities, the bank's exemptions, the protection of the office building and the tax and tax exemption, and the operations to be carried out by the bank. The agreement corresponds to both the Bank's 2015 XLI. in its Statute, published by law, both the principles of the 1961 Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations. It sets the rights and obligations of the bank and Hungary in a balanced manner. With all due respect, I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the publication of the Convention. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-20-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-02-20-47	Mr President, Dear House, Although we have a seemingly strictly professional proposal ahead of us, and it seems from the lead-up that my fellow members of government, Minister of State, are treating it as a strictly financial-economic-professional proposal, allow me to explore the framework of the debate a little bit more in terms of the fact that in 2012 Russian President Vladimir Putin rekindled the institution called the former KGST bank, now known as the International Investment Bank, which we are talking about, and which in itself could be the point of contact, so that Hungary, the Hungarian Government, could determine its own position in terms of financial policy, or its economic sold-out, as there is a given EU membership, let us say, the European Development Bank and its network, and there is another network. Obviously, a rendezvous point is created; this is not necessarily a break point. I can accept the need to diversify the portfolio, or stand on more feet, where appropriate, with no problems in the world. But to treat what lies ahead as a purely professional and financial policy issue, I think it would be irresponsible and does not fully correspond to reality. In 2015, Hungary joined the Russian dominant bank, and we see that this institution is still a smaller player in the international market, so it is not yet measurable to the weight of its rivals in the EU, with quotes.There is a political message that it can go to Hungary, its seat will end up in Hungary. I would also like to say that when Mr Secretary of State justifies or my fellow Fidesz Member gives a keynote speech, it is here that very important things are drawn to attention. On the one hand, Mr State Secretary, he mentioned that this is a recognition for Hungary, the Hungarian financial market, and my fellow Member indicated that they would place such a seat in a place where economic growth is supposed to be strong. Obviously, I do not want to push this very short and technical discourse towards a macroeconomic debate, but I would like to note that if this had been the primary aspect of the sustainable nature of economic growth, its support or even its real nature, it would not necessarily have been Budapest's choice. After all, some of the macro numbers are good for this, so don't think I'm a back-up fan, because I don't, but I also see that this growth here is based on three sources: there have been pre-existing effects, whether from before 2010, there are pre-used, let's say, EU resources, with which the Orbán government has been using, and there are its own resources, which have been well or poorly used, but have been used by its own, the latter two governments and the current truncated, in less than a year. And we can see that from this additional 8-10 percent of the amount of funding, it has produced an average of 2.5-3 percent economic growth. So we can talk about imposing macro numbers because they are in certain areas, they are not in other areas, but it is quite certain that this certificate is not exemplary compared to the rate of withdrawal, this certificate is not good. Could be. You could have done a lot better, and we expect you to do that. However, the whole point is that the Orbán government would like to have access to alternative sources with this step ahead of us, as it sees that the EU's mass of resources is either shrinking or not available at the same level as before, and in some cases in the context of fidesz oligarchic operations, these resources cannot now be relied upon as they are being paid by Hungarian taxpayers to the accounts which could not be proved to the Union. And we can also see that here, in essence, they want to obtain funding for projects to which EU funds cannot or may not be available. As regards various rail investments and infrastructure investments, we have already seen such an intention when, over decades, they have tried to invest in transport, which is not profitable, with the involvement of any non-EU capital. To this day, we do not know why they wanted it, why they wanted it, and to whom it is worth it, but certainly to someone. And right now, we're talking about getting another mass of resources. I would like to stress that this is not a problem in itself, but then they must clearly articulate the political will behind it, their relationship with the Union, their relationship with the Far East capital, their relationship with Russia, where appropriate, and thus be able to become an honest game that the opposition representative, the one time, can decide to support or not to support this process. At the same time, my respectful request is not to set the package before us as a purely financial policy, strictly dry professional issue, because it is not at all. I'd like to draw your attention to one more moment. The bank concerned, whose seat is now being transferred, has, in several cases, concluded contracts in Hungary with companies which may or may not be directly linked to the government and/or are also present on the Russian market; this could obviously have been the case. [[11.50]] But what interests me most is that this expansion of resources or additional funding will be good for the companies of good friends close to the government, so this potential profit will appear on their fronts, or it will be able to enrich the entire Hungarian national economy. I have to say that this issue cannot be pushed down simply to subsequent corporate tax payments, because if we look at the budget, we see that in Hungary there are a lot of forms of consumption-type tax coming in. So, for example, the VAT burden of the Hungarian population is brutal, and, in the case of corporate income expectations, we see such a narrow band, where, as a result of the various discounts and pampering steps provided to multinationals, there is hardly any revenue, so obviously a similar connection, seat transfer, resulting financial market plus does not necessarily come down in the Hungarian budget. It is worth considering in what dimension, in what sphere these extra signs appear. How much this is needed, I have before me the Hungarian Nation, a newspaper with a very good hope. It was my favourite daily for a very, very long time; now, after merging with the Hungarian Times, its present is a little bit, I don't want to find negative markers, but it's different from its past. We have to say, here in the leading article in the economic column, I read that with higher tax classifications, the state can obtain resources from international markets on better terms. The Minister of Finance confirmed that in 2019 they continued to follow the financing plan issued at the end of last year, without planning to issue foreign exchange bonds. By the way, we are trying to keep the record low interest rate level, and keep it as long as possible, because, let's just say, for those who have suffered foreign exchange credit, it doesn't matter at all when they touch this system, but in addition to such an idyllic painting, the question arises of what is needed for the whole package before us. I understand that this is a final touch, but let's use the debate to talk about what Hungary needs to do with all of this. If they say they want to work out alternative ways to raise funds, then I say that this is a legitimate basis for debate, that every national economy needs and may need them, but that is not what was said in the justification. It was said that this is a recognition for Hungary, how lasting and stable economic growth is. I do not want to be involved in many of these points, because, let's say, I could be very involved in the changes in the labour market: I can add to hundreds of thousands, over 600 thousand, the statistically manipulated data and the number of workers behind them who are currently employed, but in reality there is no difference compared to the previous situation; I would list student workers, a good proportion of the public workers, and I would list some of the Hungarians who have migrated abroad, who are part of the Hungarian labour market statistics. There could therefore be very wide-ranging debates on this. By narrowing down this debate, however, I ask you to clarify the position of Hungary and the Hungarian government, by extending your framework a little bit, because it doesn't matter at all what message we send to the directions with which we have federal cooperation. I have always been in favour of Hungarian sovereignty and the party to doing as much investment as possible by standing on its own feet, strengthening our own economy, quoting signs. I do not really trust that Hungary can find its positions at the mercy of three or four great powers, and I have strong doubts about this. Now, as a result of the diversification of the porfolio, another leg is strengthened, namely the Russian leg. The question is, therefore, what are the intentions of the Government of Hungary in relation to these world market developments, and how seriously can it be taken to try to get the Hungarian economy back on its own? We have detected slight traces of this, but I must at least question its effectiveness. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2019-02-20-48	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A speech will be delivered by Ms Zita Gurmai, lead speaker of the MSZP Group. You have the floor.
u2019-02-20-49	Thank you very much. Mr President, Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary. I have a 15-minute time frame, but about eight minutes to find out something really stinks. Instead of Soviet tanks, Russian banks are now invading the country. Unfortunately, the State Secretary who spoke before me did not remove my suspicions, but confirmed my suspicions. It is ridiculous that Viktor Orbán constantly talks about Hungarian interests and fears national independence while opening the door of Hungary to the Russian interests: Putin's Trojan horse is being brought in. Because there is no other way to appreciate the fact that the headquarters of the International Investment Bank under Russian influence in Budapest even has an office building in addition to the tax exemption and other exemptions. This bank is not so big that it is worth giving it such discounts. This bank has a balance sheet total of HUF 380 billion, which is only 2.5 percent, i.e. two and a half percent of OTP Bank's balance sheet total. With this balance sheet total, this international bank would be only the 17th, i.e. the 17th, among the banks in Hungary. And only a fraction of this money will go to the Hungarian economy, because it is not enough that this bank is so small, it does not even seem to consider Hungary a serious partner. Hungary owns 12 percent, yet only 8 percent of the loans issued by the bank came to Hungary. Then why is this bank so important to the Hungarian government? Did we raise a share, Mr. Secretary? The answer, surprisingly, can be found on the bank's website: here a single Hungarian project is highlighted, the MET group is financed to buy Tigas. Vidi's owner, István Garancsi, benefits, but the question is that it created jobs, because they did not finance a development, but the expansion of an oligarch-related group of companies. So, it seems that the bank will fund the fidesz oligarchs that they cannot solve with EU money, and it seems that there will be an increasing need for such resources. The light scandal of the Tiborcz Elios shows that the EU has had enough of theft, so there is no money for such things. Then, if the bank finances fidesz oligarchs, they will pretend that it has nothing to do with the Hungarian government. We've seen this before. The Hungarian government, the Hungarian state, lost a lot of money on the settlement bonds, but the Fidesz offshore oligarchs became rich, so Fidesz planted twenty thousand foreigners on Hungary with settlement bonds for good money in the midst of loud migranting. Among the foreigners there were a large number of wanted and underworld figures who simply bought it so that they could live and travel freely in the European Union. You have already sold Hungary's safety once. Is that what they're up to now? Can you guarantee that due to the exemptions linked to the bank's headquarters, we don't have messy people like Assad's Syrian dictator's moneyman who, despite the Christmas break, got a residence permit in just ten days? What guarantee do you have that they don't bring people like you here now? What guarantee is there that this bank is not about puttingin's moneymen sneaking around economic sanctions against Russia? What is the guarantee that this will not violate our EU cooperation? You know the answer: nothing, absolutely nothing. And there's something to be clarified in the bill itself. According to the contract in the bill, I quote, the government provides an office building, i.e. an office building, but later it is written in the definitions that I quote that the office building, main buildings, parts of buildings, including the facilities for the approach used for the official activities of the bank, and the official residence of the President. So the office building here can be made up of several buildings, and to be able, again, I quote, the President's official residence. So the office building here is made up of several buildings, like I said. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary, how is that? We will read later that the government will provide adequate support to the President's residence and other facilities necessary for the operation of the bank. I would ask the representatives of the government to make it clear that the President's residence will also be ensured by the Hungarian Government. Do Hungarian taxpayers also have to pay for police insurance in the Presidential Residence? Is this worth it to us Hungarian taxpayers? One thing's for sure: you're giving Putin's men red carpets for a few tens of billions of credit. This is also remarkable because the leader of the European Union, which grants Hungary thousands of billion forints, is being attacked by a campaign paid with public money. [[12.00]] Is this because the European Union is trying to verify what the money for development is doing? You obviously prefer to fund the fidesz oligarchs' businesses without question. You slept with Putin for the money and sold Hungary to foreign interests by kilo. In the same way, they slept with the multinationals when they voted in the slave law to keep Hungarian workers working for 400 hours a year, so that it would only be enough to pay them in three years' time. Fidesz doesn't care about the interests of the Hungarian people, they just watch there always be someone who puts money in your pocket; if it's Russian, it's Russian, if it's Chinese, it's Chinese. The European Union is important to Fidesz only as long as it is possible to steal funds from it. And now that almost everything has been stolen, they want to steal the work force of the Hungarian people. You tell the foreign multinationals to come to us, you can do everything you can with our workers. Fidesz says that you can work the Hungarian workers for six days a week without paying them overtime in three years' time, or even then. Orbán says you can fire whoever wants to build a union, the Fidesz government won't protect anyone. Fidesz tells the Russians to bring your bank here and do whatever you want here, give him immunity from the law. The Soviet tank was just as outlawed as the Russian bank is now. Fidesz sells out and wants to sell Hungary, but we Hungarian socialists will not let that happen. People can see the real purpose of Fidesz. 'Cause what you have here is just a free-robbed area, our country, and we, together with the working people, will protect this country from the hyenas of Fidesz. We're gonna get them to abolish the slave law. We're gonna make Fidesz fail. And we will make sure that everything that has been stolen from the Hungarian people goes back to its rightful owner, the Hungarian state. Of course, we do not support the bill. Thank you so much for listening. [[Antal Csárdi applauds.]]
u2019-02-20-50	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Varju, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2019-02-20-51	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. They deserve to be read to you by letter, because then, let's just say that at least a little bit in public, that everything you have brought before us here, right, after you have signed, because the agreement has already been signed, and it is likely that it will have to be brought to justice by those involved in it, because this is the guarantee that you want to pull off of the Hungarian people in this framework, or, by the way, our rights, our opportunities have been offered here to businessmen who have come from Moscow. Now, let's look at this story about what it's about, because you mentioned that this bank was founded in 1970, and everyone should be very proud that this was established under the name of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance, KGST. By the way, Fidesz wanted to quit this bank in 2000. Although the situation has not changed a lot since then, at least as regards the fact that the Bulgarian People's Republic, the Hungarian People's Republic, the German Democratic Republic, the Mongolian People's Republic as its founders can only be mentioned to you, and this bank still has the objective of supporting the plan economy based on international socialist division of labour, according to the Legislative Decree on the establishment that is still in force today. So it's literally in the statutes of that bank we're talking about right now. Say, according to the national economy portfolio, this bank has been radically transformed in line with modern international standards over the past two years, so as far as it has succeeded, it has come with ideas for the development of the Hungarian national economy. Thank God this fits well with the Eastern opening policy you have mentioned so much. I do not know exactly how this is in relation to the fact that the Minister of Economic Affairs spoke earlier about and hoped that, in the post-Brexit state, financial institutions or even banking supervision would arrive from there, which, when settled here, could mean this to Hungary. Well, now, if there's no horse, there's a donkey, there's another, it's true, from a different direction, with different intentions or unknown intentions, but the point is that he's here. So now you must be very happy about this. However, I do not want to be just a picnic on this subject, because, in fact, we could look at this as a welcome event, and, in fact, through this one, your thinking is completely visible and transparent, because if I do take the bill back into my hands, I will add three key sentences or keywords to it, so that when I am gone, it is worth putting care, security and immunity next to these keywords, because if I want to look for this, then the founding document of this bill, or whatever you have agreed, come forward. So that's why I'm recommending it to everyone, and once again, it's about a bank, it's not about people, it's not about nationalities, it's about a financial institution that you normally condemn, and then specifically, when you have to submit a bill here, and then you come with this story. May I remind you, or you, Secretary of State, of what you are defending here; quite frankly, you do not have to answer it, as it is written here. The one important element that you mentioned is, therefore, that I should be pleased that when you write on the office building facilities, the government will provide an appropriate office building that will function as an office building of the bank. The office building in which the bank operates shall meet the needs of the bank, the details of which shall be determined by the bank in consultation with the government. That's what I'm talking about. That's what I'm talking about. You can even continue with this:. If the bank rents a suitable office from a third party, the government will reimburse the bank's costs and expenses accordingly. We're very happy about this. Now just say one more Hungarian company in which they are willing to do this, or only one... Excuse me, you will be able to find one Hungarian person in this country for sure, there is a fidesz leader here to whom they hire, and in this way care for, and care for, and attention to. But I still have time to be sure that a few more of these pleasant decisions, at least, which the bank is certainly a pleasant one to draw everyone's attention to. Which one should I mention to you? For example, it intends to contribute to the investment projects and programmes of the members of the bank and its organisations operating in the territory of its Member States. This will also be explained in more detail in which it acts as a trustee of special purpose and investment funds established by the members of the bank, the organisations of the bank's Member States and other entities. Nana, what will become of this, my dear Secretary of State, which will be the foundations for which you will become farmers here? By the way, if you add the exemptions that are listed here, you will thus secure this entire institution, which states that the bank, its property and assets, the bank archives, wherever they are located and owned by anyone, and that the bank's operations are exempt from any legal proceedings, administrative or judicial proceedings, except in cases where the bank waives its immunity. How many cases will there be, my dear Secretary of State, when the bank renounces such immunity and does not take advantage of this opportunity? [[12.10]] Allow me one or two more sentences in any case, because the government will ensure the security and tranquility of the office building. What if, once in a while, the peace of the citizens would be assured by this fidesz government, rather than living in a permanent war life, and at least in the same way as with its citizens, as with this bank? Moreover, in order to ensure that no one has any doubt, even the overhead costs are guaranteed, I do not want to go into detail here, although in this, it is undoubtedly said that at a level that represents the highest level of service in the governance environment; also in price, I suppose, including this. The bank is entitled again to what can be accessed, what can be checked; certainly it is so with all banks and in all international treaties, it may be possible that the Secretary of State will be able to respond to this after all, but the bank will be entitled to send letters and other official documents by courier and in a closed bag, which enjoy the same privileges and immunity as diplomatic couriers or luggage. Well, my dear Secretary of State, all I have to ask now is what moment it will be, when Mr Gruevski and some others, because there is also an exemption for persons here, and then in these cars and in these bags, they will always travel here in a European Member State. And in addition to the circumstances provided in this way, you will even guarantee that it is exempt from any tax, tax retention or tax collection obligation. Well, congratulations. I could continue to discuss the benefits of financial transactions, the immunity and privileges of the bank's governors themselves, the immunity and privileges of the bank's board of directors and directors. And then I could go on, even asking what the registration number of the cars can indicate and how they can and cannot be stopped accordingly, because the bank is entitled to install the appropriate registration plate on its vehicle, these official means of transport are exempt from search, expropriation, seizure or compulsory disposal. The government also accelerates and simplifies the entry into service of the Bank's official supplier's assets. So from this law, my dear Secretary of State, it follows that, in addition to the care, security and immunity, you provide this bank with very pleasant conditions, and you certainly deserve it, if you see it that way, that is for sure. Although I might add that this is not a great achievement if I return to the fact that, by the way, financial institutions who, in fact, threatened with the danger of Brexit, have transferred a billion dollars of capital, I repeat, these financial institutions have not found Budapest. But why not? Because they are facing an unreliable leadership, because no one will go to a place where, dear Secretary of State, you will find that, unlike the banks, you are giving Hungarian people, workers and employees no real opportunity, but rather create economic conditions that are favourable to the banks, and that is in favour of this bank, because it is not worth generalising. I'm not going to do this, but I'm saying that you're going to join your friends as strategic partners in this form, and instead, you're going to leave people alone, and you're going to even do that if you have to, you're going to enslave them. You think they're gonna use 400 hours overtime in this bank? Will that be necessary there? Or will there be enough workers to be well-paid, privileged workers who will work here without overtime? Dear Secretary of State, It is our patriotic duty to draw attention to everything. All you guys are doing is taking advantage of your party, your friends, and if all you're doing through this bank is serving your friends, as we've seen before, you should be ashamed of yourselves. We're not your slaves. Don't do that. If there were some decency within you, I would do so in a transparent way. Otherwise, along with this law, which we cannot support, we can safely withdraw the slave law, because they are unworthy to deal with the development of the working conditions of Hungarian workers so far, at least do not make this situation worse. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. Zita Gurmai and Antal Csárdi applaud.]]
u2019-02-20-52	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2019-02-20-53	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you for the floor. In connection with the bill, the first sentence that comes to my mind is: "Up, up, you prisoners of the earth, and in the meantime, a picture appears before me, as the marching crowd on 1 May thanked the wise man of the young socialist working party, that he brought back the KGST bank 30 years after the change of regime. We already know and know exactly how the Hungarian government is in relation to the Soviet Union, sorry, to Russia and to the countries that have good relations with the Soviet President Vladimir Putin, sorry, to the Russian President Vladimir Putin; how special attention will be paid when the Turkish or Russian President visits Hungary. In recent years, it has been said that he is practically coming home, and it has already been announced that he is honouring us again this year, Mr President. According to the LMP, this direction is not good, and it is particularly harmful, and the further deepening of this relationship will cause long-term injury to Hungary and, in extreme cases, even result in separation from the Union. The preparation of this bill started last year, which Mihály Varga reported as a success, that the Russians would finance Hungarian companies. This text of the proposal does not contain such rosy, rather dictatorial points and standards, which the Hungarian government must comply with, and they seem to be happy to do so. But let us briefly see what the story of this great agreement is. The International Investment Bank was founded in 1970, which Hungary was the founder of, but how interesting it was that due to its lack of transparency and inefficiencies our country left the organization in 2000. You will remember that in 2000 the Prime Minister of Hungary was Viktor Orbán. But let's keep going in the story. In 2014, wow, really, they called the Prime Minister Viktor Orbán... we renewed our membership, and I think that in itself was an indicative decision. It is worth seeing that this International Investment Bank, we know precisely that it is the largest shareholder of 48 percent of Russia. After that, the members of such major economic powers as Bulgaria, Hungary, or I can continue the list of major economic powers who are members of this enterprise: Cuba, Czech Republic, Mongolia, Romania, Slovakia and Vietnam. Minister of Finance Mihály Varga signed a Memorandum of Understanding in June with bank president Nikolai Kosov that the bank will open an office in Budapest, and later the Board of Governors decided to transfer their regional seat to Budapest. The Ministry of Finance has expressed its joy in its communication, and I quote: The seat of the International Investment Bank in Hungary will be further strengthened by Hungary and Budapest's international financial central role. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[12.20]] Varga said earlier that the relocation of the seat to Budapest is expected to greatly improve the bank's competitiveness and development potential. Ladies and gentlemen, Whatever you think and try to improve the situation, or make it look like you're doing something very positive and positive, you're doing nothing else with this proposal, if you accept it, but to increase our vulnerability to Russia and increase Russian presence and influence in our country. Of course, the Russian President will laugh triumphantly in his office, that he has established his financial centre at the door of Europe in Budapest and can provide points of full dictatorship for its operation. The next step will indeed be that Hungary will re-enter the Moscow-based International Economic Cooperation Bank, with the aim of further increasing the international resources that can be involved. In our view, there is no need to involve such international resources. And here's the latest piece of evidence, this bill, that, as EU funds go down, Fidesz wants to finance his buddies from Moscow loans, that the government can finance your buddies through loans from the Russian-based International Development Bank. But this has already been started, because in 2017, when the Soviet IMF gave 7 billion to a water wing processing plant... well, we still don't know what conditions. 'Cause what do we have to see? That the illegal, corrupt use of EU funds, no matter how ineffective, OLAF is. We've learned that, on the one hand, from Metro 4 and, on the other, from your friends, let's just say that they're more than critical of their reports. There's no need to be afraid of that when lending this bank. There will not be a single piece of OLAF, an international prosecutor's office, or any legislation, to back them up, among other things, thanks to this law. Allow me to add that it will allow you to do this, but we have to say that this opaque funding is an addiction for Hungary, which will clearly result in us being the saddest barracks in the European Union as long as we are members. Because your policy has started to lead this country out of the European Union. I think I can say on behalf of all my fellow opposition Members that we will prevent this with all our strength. But let us consider the points of the proposal supported by you and the Minister of Finance. The status. The government recognises that the bank has international legal personality and full personality in Hungary. The government guarantees the bank the autonomy and freedom of action it is entitled to as an international organisation. The bank is entitled to use its flag and logo. The bank's legal capacity covers contracts, acquisition and disposal of property and movable property. I think the first and most important question here is why Hungary does not want to interfere with the operation of this bank. Why lie down for dictatorships and other transparent requirements? This part is about nothing more than to establish a base here on the part of Russia, which, by the way, Hungary has nothing to do with, all in all, to serve Russian interests. And what's in it for us? Why do we have to accept that? I would like to remind you that Hungary is a member of a military federal system. This military federal system is called NATO. I don't know how you approach an ally who starts making deals with the biggest opponent, but I'll leave the wording of this to you. I think you should be able to look in the mirror, and after such a decision, you'll have to look the citizens in the eye. And here's the thing: the government provides a proper office building where the bank can operate. As my fellow lead speakers have already said, this is so that the costs of this will be borne by Hungarian citizens, the Hungarian taxpayers, an investment where virtually a significant proportion of the real costs are borne by Hungarian taxpayers. What do you get for this? Nothing, actually. Because what they get in return is the risk that this bank will be able to circumvent the economic embargo on Russia. This is why Hungarian citizens are being given money to businesses close to the government in an opaque way now that the EU is running out of funds. I think that this is not in the interests of taxpayers or Hungary. It's in the best interest of the government. Not least, the rules on financial transactions are one of the most hairy ones that could apply to a financial institution. In this section, it is specifically described that without any regulation or moratorium, IBB can do anything. We know exactly that György Matolcsy thinks that as the head of the Hungarian National Bank, he can do everything and considers this system to be normal. This is totally unacceptable for LMP. The Russian development bank in Hungary is free to carry out any financial transaction without any control. This can have many dangerous consequences. By the way, this is why we will be able to bypass the Russian embargo, which, we know very well, Hungary did not support. Just remember that Hungary is still a member of the European Union today, and this involves not only rights but also obligations. This is perhaps the most dangerous point for economic and financial speculation, with one of the government's biggest enemies being financial speculators and capitalists. If you want an office in Budapest, you should not have a free hand, if the aim is to benefit both parties, you should not accept dictatorships. What we need to talk about is Paks II. It is related to investment, because it is also likely that the move of the International Investment Bank to Budapest is also linked to the investment in Paks. One of the main positions of LMP is that Paks II. development should be based on renewable energy and energy efficiency instead. Paks II. an economic inability, the worst business of the century, and because of the progress of the technological revolution, it is no longer timely. The question is, when are we gonna get rid of him? The later, the more expensive this adventure will be for Hungarian taxpayers. The termination of the Paks II Treaty should therefore be urged, and not the move of the Russian development bank into our country. The use of modern energy technologies is already cheaper than the expected price of Paks II electricity, even though no one today knows how much it will cost to boost this power plant. Public funds for nuclear energy should therefore be used to transform our energy system, to develop private solar energy and to modernise homes for families living in poverty. The resources spent on renewables and energy efficiency will be reimbursed to consumers, as they will result in constant cost reductions and even revenue if necessary. If we are talking about a support system, such as support for the Development Bank, the LMP would create a simple and transparent support system for retail energy investments. I think that the investments that these companies would receive, as opposed to such KGST banks, will actually pay off for society. Development resources should be directed towards the future potential sectors. High-quality skills and positive natural conditions are today largely unused, the smart economy is based on these two, human capital and the sustainable use of natural resources. Strengthening the green sectors should give the backbone of the economy, because then Hungary's economic performance would be sustainable and sustainable in the future. I think it is very important to say at the end that Hungarian foreign policy should finally be consistent and predictable. [[12.30]] Our foreign policy is clearly trying to play in two directions today, and I think that you cannot sacrifice to two gods at once. We have a federal partner, we are part of a political community that we call the European Union, and I think that, and, of course, in general, there should be no misunderstanding about whoever made a deal against his allies with the biggest opponent, which in many places is called a traitor. I think that this must also be binding on us, because if we are not bound by this principle, then we can very quickly need a peripheral within the European Union. I think that what would be the greatest tragedy for this society if, in extreme cases, we were to get out of the European Union. Overall, this proposal, according to the LMP, is a dictatorship which only strengthens Russian influence and should therefore not be supported in any way. We would like to urge Paks II to accept this. termination of a contract, because it is in the clear interest of our country. In conclusion, I think that there can be no question that the slave law should be revoked. Thank you very much.
u2019-02-20-54	Dear Parliament, The representative of the Dialogue is not present, so he cannot give his speech as a keynote speaker now. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. There will now be speeches by Members, the two-minute speeches being held in the first round. I give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Sigismund, representative of Fidesz.
u2019-02-20-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would perhaps briefly describe your speech. It's a professional proposal, it's a proposal to announce an international convention. An international bank is coming here to Hungary. It is regrettable that we have heard political lounges on your part. Maybe that's why you're so unpopular in the eyes of citizens, because you're delirious, you're delirious, you're not talking about the point. They're talking about a Russian bank, an international bank with nine states. The bodies are also composed of nine states, and ownership rights are shared between nine states. This bank already has a seat in Bratislava. This bank is composed of four NATO Member States, four EU Member States, so this is an international cooperation. With regard to the exemption, many do not understand what this is about, this is an international bank with international legal personality, and this is where, as appropriate, international jurisdictions which are customary in international institutions are subject to these exemptions. So again, this is a great recognition of the Hungarian economic performance, Budapest, that an international bank is coming here. This strengthens the Hungarian people's faith in the future, and it is of paramount importance to Budapest and is of paramount importance to the Hungarian economy. Thank you very much.
u2019-02-20-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2019-02-20-57	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. My fellow Member, how well we are aware that you want to sell this to this, what you have said, I will say: Russia is the largest shareholder of the bank by 48%. He is followed by Bulgaria with a 13 per cent ratio, followed by Hungary with a little more than 12 per cent, and we know exactly who else are members of this club. But let's stop for a second. You say that like a crazy-sized company came in here. The balance sheet total of this company is 2.5 percent of OTP's balance sheet total. Twenty-five percent! So that means the OTP is 50 times bigger than this company. I think we should also bear in mind that if denied or not, this has foreign policy implications. The fact that a bank, coupled with a connection system between Viktor Orbán and Vladimir Putin, is called in such a dwarf bank, pumpkin bank, so to put it this way... this bank would be small for Hungarian domestic consumption and would not be able to be competitive there. We're not talking about the Sberbank, so you don't want to sell us that this is a professional proposal. Here they bring in a bank that has a very special license, which is suitable for covering the embargo if necessary. That's what we're talking about. Thank you.
u2019-02-20-58	Thank you. For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Congressman László Varju, Democratic Coalition. Here you go.
u2019-02-20-59	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Member, Let us add a few thoughts to the misconception, and let us begin by saying that the President of the Hungarian National Bank, which you have entrusted to you, said that it is necessary to build a bridge of friendship and cooperation that is true for this Chinese territory. You just converted this into Russian connections. 'Cause going on with this line of thought, yeah, there are situations where there are economic partners, you know, who they're dealing with, they're buying and selling. However, there are allies who sit down with each other and agree on something, and they work accordingly where friendship and cooperation agreements are concluded, which we can safely consider to be so. You are doing much more to bring to you a bank representing a Russian state in Budapest than, by the way, to the European Union, with whom we are working together for a very long time, but certainly a hundred years, I would say, in a dream of a thousand years. That's what you spit on, by the way, when you do that, with Paks II, and that's what you do when you bring in a proposal like this. That is why what you are doing is unacceptable, because I agree with my fellow Member not only in Hungary but also in the international context. Even if you don't personally think so here, but since your buddies are going to use it for this, it will be difficult to follow, but the consequence is this. They betray the Hungarian people, just like they did with the slave law. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] That's why they're gonna take that back, too. Thank you.
u2019-02-20-60	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Ms Zita Gurmai, MSZP Group.
u2019-02-20-61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to be optimistic and get answers from the Secretary of State to all my questions. I'd like to repeat the professional arguments, okay? I was talking about the balance sheet total of this bank being HUF 380 billion, and that is 2.5 percent of the OTP balance sheet total. So I would like to make sure that this money is indeed going to enter the Hungarian economy and not just a fraction of it. The other thing we talked about is the percentage of Hungary's ownership in this bank. It's also a very clear number, 12 percent. I would like to know now again that only 8 percent of the loans allocated have come to our country, that is the exact number. In addition, I would like to know that only the owner of Vidi, István Garancsi, really benefited. So this is a question, since, as I indicated on the bank's website, no other data was shown in this case. Otherwise, I have asked a few more questions, and I would like to receive guarantees, but of course I will repeat this too. With regard to the office building, it is also inaccurate what building we are talking about, whether it will be a presidential residence or not, and of course I would also like to know who will ensure the police insurance of the Presidential Residence: whether we are taxpayers or not. I would also like to know that this is really worth it to the taxpayers. So I think in any way that this is a chance for the Hungarian government, of course, to get such a bank here, but we also want the voters to understand exactly why this is good for them, not just for Putin. Thank you.
u2019-02-20-62	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The two-minute speeches are over. In a normal time frame, Mr Csárdi Antal applied for a further speech. Here you go.
u2019-02-20-63	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. I am sorry that I waited until the last moment, but I expected that Mr Secretary of State or one of the members of the Government would honor my fellow Member and answer his questions. [[12.40]] But I do not see that we can expect this answer because they do not want to respond, just so that we can no longer respond to it. We know this method. But then I would like to say one more sentence that, beyond the fact that, by the way, the answers to the questions that have been raised are very important, one thing must be said in any way, because it is very important to have a record. The Orbán government, so proud of its freedom struggles, is always very proud to say that it has driven the IMF out of here and thus protected the country's economic sovereignty. But today we no longer talk about the fight for freedom, the bank of KGST can now come here, because there is only one thing that matters: in our interest, in this sense, the economic interest of the Fidesz Moonyard should be represented by a given financial institution, or not. Because if the interests of the Fidesz Moonyard are represented by that financial institution, then our economic sovereignty can be renounced. Here are the items printed in front of me from the contract, which clearly and perfectly demonstrate that Hungary has given up its economic sovereignty with this contract, only because in an opaque financing system Fidesz companies will be able to swim more comfortably. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2019-02-20-64	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he'd like to respond. [[On Gábor Gion's mark:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-02-20-65	Dear Parliament, Allow me to respond briefly to the professional concerns, and I would like to remain at the level of the professional presentation. As it seems, this is a professional proposal. The bank, as in its name, is an International Investment Bank, a supranational financial institution, of which there are five so far in the European Union. Therefore, it cannot be compared with a commercial bank or other undertakings. [[Antal Csárdi: The size.]] What rights are granted to this bank in the Treaty, in the Headquarters Agreement, are exactly the same rights that the five other banks in the European Union receive. So there's no other favoritism. The ownership rates. I am afraid that the most recent information is not in the possession of the honourable Member, because the combined share of the five EU Member States, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Romania and Hungary is 50.16 percent, i.e. the majority share. Russian ownership is 40.03 percent. In fact, the Hungarian share is 12 percent, that is true. We are planning to increase this, by the way. [[Dr. Gurmai Zita: What's the amount?]] And then I'd like to get back to the costs. I mentioned it, but I may not have emphasised it sufficiently, so our current negotiating position with the bank is that in exchange for the reimbursement, we want a further share with the bank. So the bank wouldn't get either the headquarters or the rent for free. It's still pending how we plan to do that. As there are current placements: MOL has a general EUR 20 million loan, Hunent Zrt. has EUR 37 million and the MET group has 25 million. This is indeed only 8 percent of the bank's portfolio, but consider that we joined the bank in 2015, so this portfolio is continuously being built up. The bank is uncompetitive: I'm afraid that you're wrong again, thank God, it's not right, because it keeps the bank in the three major international rating category. So it's okay in this regard. We'll pay for the President's residence, shall we? That's not the answer. Statute based on a socialist planning economy. I think you have read the old statute here, Mr President, because the new Statute entered into force in August 2018, and this is, of course, an international financial document or an investment bank corresponding to those standards. I would add that on the Hungarian side, the majority of operational management is already an EU Member State, i.e. the EU Member States are in the majority of the operational management board, and we are obviously the owners of the bank in this respect. That's all I wanted to do, the other implants that I didn't have here or here, the argument that I'd leave for another occasion. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2019-02-20-66	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your correct answers. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 2007 Annex XVII on certain aspects of the procedure relating to agricultural, agricultural and rural development and fisheries aid and other measures. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/4481. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Sándor Farkas, Secretary of State of the Agricultural Ministry, Deputy Minister, author of the item on the agenda. Deputy Minister, you have the floor.
u2019-02-20-67	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill, which the Parliament has just started to negotiate, is the 17th of 2007 on certain issues relating to the procedure relating to agricultural, agricultural and rural development and fisheries aid and other measures. It contains an amendment to a law, that is to say, a procedural law. The legislative proposal currently under discussion is preceded by the administrative reform measure to reduce red tape launched in 2014 which resulted in the adoption by the Parliament of the new Administrative Code of Procedure, the 2016 CL on General Administrative Rules. Law. In parallel with the entry into force of the new General Code of Procedure, it was necessary to establish a special system of procedures for agricultural support only, which builds to the maximum on the decades of good practice developed in implementation, the existing processes of the institutional system, which are accredited under EU law. The proposals to amend the procedural law into a sui generis procedure entered into force on 2 January 2018, but in the period since then, the Hungarian Treasury, as a support body for agriculture and rural development, was faced with technical problems in the application of law that justified the entry into force of the amendments contained in the current bill. The primary objective of the proposed amendments is to facilitate the smooth functioning of the agricultural support relationship between the Hungarian Treasury and farmers, and to simplify and smoother implementation of certain procedural sub-tasks. The amending provisions concern in particular the following procedural areas: the content of the client register, the setting of time limits for procedural actions between the body involved in the implementation, the administrative authority and the Hungarian Treasury, the list of witnesses, grounds for exclusion, the clarification of on-the-spot checks, the publication and the errors concerning the content of appeals, the extension of the grounds for nullity of decisions, the inclusion of a reference to administrative litigation in the procedural law and the obligation to pay interest. [[12.50]] Among the proposals for amendments to the bill, the Agricultural Parcell Identification System, which we call the "POP" in the profession, is a proposal for announced change management procedures, which serve faster, smoother implementation. The substance of the amendment is that, instead of the procedure that has been initiated and concluded with a formal decision on the application, the client's notification would allow for an ex officio procedure for the change, in which case a formal decision would not be taken, but the result data would be transferred to the MEPR register. The customer can also get to know these data through the MPAR interface and will also be informed in the grant decision. If the customer does not agree with the outcome of the change management procedure, which in any case allows data containing the real location of the area concerned to be recorded in the MAP, he may lodge an appeal against the finding in the appeal proceedings brought against the decision on the aid application for that year. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of the above, it can be seen that this bill is aimed at resolving the problems that cause coherence problems which ensure the unimpeded fulfilment of the tasks of the Hungarian Treasury in relation to agricultural subsidies, and that technical amendments to the proposal will also be introduced into the legislation. I ask the Honourable Parliament to discuss the bill on the grounds stated and then adopt it afterwards. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-02-20-68	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Congressman György Czerván, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2019-02-20-69	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, 17 of 2007 on certain issues relating to the procedure before you relating to agricultural, agricultural and rural development and fisheries aid and other measures T/4481. Bill No.1, as stated by the Secretary of State, is essentially the latest update package of the procedural law, which is based on the practical experience of the last year. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments, as we have heard, serve the interests of Hungarian farmers in addition to debate. They aim to ensure that aid-related procedures are as simple and efficient as possible. It is important for producers to feel, experience, that the support system is trying to help their lives as effectively as possible, to see that bureaucracy is falling noticeably. In addition to what has been said in relation to the bill, it would be difficult to say more and more in substance, and therefore, in agreement with what has been said, I do not wish to repeat Mr State Secretary. The smooth operation of the agricultural support relationship between the Hungarian State Treasury and Hungarian producers, the simplification and smoother implementation of certain procedural sub-tasks can only be supported. In particular, I support any corrective proposals aimed at facilitating the efficiency and simpler use of the Agricultural Parcell Identification System. We may all know that, but my fellow Members in agriculture know for sure how important it is that the system which is the sole national land identification system for agricultural aid procedures, causing farmers as little problems as possible, should function smoothly. Knowing the content of the bill, we can safely say that the amendments are indeed intended to serve to provide a more efficient public service and to enforce useful and meaningful experience. I therefore ask that you support the adoption of this bill. That's what we're gonna do. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-02-20-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to MEP Zoltán Magyar, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. Here you go.
u2019-02-20-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! I may not be too surprised to say at the outset that the Jobbik faction will be able to support the bill before us, which we have just discussed, as we have supported many of its predecessors. If we look at it better, it will include in its objectives and, as we hope, achieve what we have already heard from the Secretary of State. So I guess we're not gonna have a big debate here. I would just say for half a sentence that, on the other hand, I regret that many problems or many red tape-building measures, which, by the way, are contained in this legislation, have just come before this House. If you take the trouble, Mr Secretary of State or my fellow members of the Government, and look at how many times, through written questions, I have called attention to the majority of the problems that I intend to address here, then you can see that some passus of this legislation could have come before us. Through specific cases, in particular through complaints from the farmers concerned, I have put these issues in order towards the competent minister. I would only urge you that, if there are any forward-looking ideas and proposals to facilitate bureaucracy, even on the part of opposition fellow Members to you in the future, you should be able to integrate it into the legal system at a faster pace, since in such cases you are not only pro-government but, I think, you can count on the votes of opposition Members, as I have already done, in this case too. I just said that as a small parentheses encouragement. [[Sándor Farkas: Thank you.]] And once again, I stress that we can support it. We hope that a number of similar measures will be put before this House. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-02-20-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, on behalf of the MSZP Group, withdrew her intention to speak as a speaker. Mr Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group, is not in the room. Thus, overall, we have reached the end of the speaker's speeches. We now have speeches from Members. I ask you, one of my fellow Members wishes to speak in a two-minute period, and perhaps in a normal time frame. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I'll ask Mr. Deputy Minister if you'd like to answer. [[Sándor Farkas: Yes.]] Yeah. You have the floor.
u2019-02-20-73	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for the keynote speech on the pro-government part, as well as on the opposition side, on the supportive thoughts that you have said about the law. I trust that we will live to see this noble moment when we can vote together in the vote. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-02-20-74	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Proposals for amendments may be submitted on Thursday at 16 a.m., if any. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the bill on the amendments necessary to implement the European Union's data protection reform will follow up until closure. The government referral is T/4479. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2019-02-20-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Hungary has already put particular emphasis on the protection of personal data from the change of regime. A high level of protection of personal data was also ensured in European comparison by the former Constitution, the Law on the Protection of Personal Data and the Publicity of Data and the resulting practice of the Constitutional Court. A high level of protection of the protection of personal data was not only maintained by the Fundamental Law and the Act on the Right of Information Self-determination and Freedom of Information, but also established the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information as an autonomous administrative body to monitor and facilitate the protection of personal data. When examining the regulatory proposal, we need to separate constitutional and EU legal requirements for data protection. [[13.00]] In examining the constitutional aspect, it can be said that the protection of personal data is subject to Article VI of the Fundamental Law. Article I (3) of the Fundamental Law applies to the limitation of the fundamental right referred to in Article 1 of the Fundamental Law. In the practice of the Constitutional Court, he has dealt with informational self-determination several times, both in the case of the old constitution and in the case of the basic rule of law. The first decision of the Constitutional Court in the field of the protection of personal data, the Constitutional Court's decision of 15/1991, in which the Constitutional Court stated that the general and uniform identification code which can be used without limitation was unconstitutional and defined the constitutional content of the right to the protection of personal data and the content of the most important guarantee of fundamental rights, the principle of purpose. However, the right to the protection of personal data cannot be limited in a manner compatible with the necessity-proportionality test, i.e. where it is justified by the protection of other fundamental rights or of some constitutional value, the necessary and proportionate restriction may be justified. The Constitutional Court 2/2014. However, it also stated that any legislation which provides for the processing of personal data must contain guarantees that the person concerned can follow the course of the data and enforce his rights. These guarantee institutions should also limit the way of the data in order to be verifiable. In addition to the general law establishing the framework for data protection, specific rules on specific types of data or the processing of certain public or economic sectors are necessary. Dear House, Turning to the EU legal environment, in 2012, the European Commission presented a package of proposals to reform EU legislation on the protection of personal data, resulting in the adoption in 2016 of two legislative acts by the Council and the European Parliament as co-legislators, on the one hand the General Data Protection Regulation and, on the other hand, the Directive on data processing for law enforcement purposes. As a result of the legislative process, the General Data Protection Regulation has been mandatory in the Member States of the European Union since 25 May 2018, and since May 2018, the Directive also obliges EU Member States to harmonise legislation, i.e. to transpose the rules of the Directive into national law. As you know, the implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation at horizontal level and the transposition of the Law Enforcement Directive between the walls of this House in the course of last year, the 13th of 2018. Act XXXVIII and Act XXXVIII of 2018 It was adopted by law. Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). Legally designated the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information as supervisory authority under the General Data Protection Regulation. In addition, the 2018 XXXVIII. Law 16 also provided for the transposition of the Directive on data processing for law enforcement purposes and laid down additional provisions necessary for the implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation. This Act also laid down the operating conditions and procedures of the procedure of the National Data Protection and Freedom of Information Authority in the context of the General Data Protection Regulation, as well as the full review of the Act on the Right of Information Self-determination and Freedom of Information, i.e. the Information Law, has created a clear situation for law enforcement. In view of the framework regulation of the info law at horizontal level, it is also necessary to review the data processing rules contained in each sectoral law. The purpose of the bill before us is, therefore, to adopt legislative provisions amending certain sectoral laws in order to implement the General Data Protection Regulation. The definitions and interpretation provisions defining the same or different content as those defined by the regulation in the existing sectoral laws shall not be maintained. It has also become necessary to clarify the references to the info law in each sectoral law and to amend rigid or flexible references to legal institutions that may no longer be in force. A total of 86 sectoral laws would be amended by the bill before us. In the spring of 2017, the Ministry of Justice coordinated a review of sectoral laws falling within the remit and competence of each ministry on the data protection aspects, resulting in a proposal prepared by each ministry to be summarised by the Ministry of Justice in the autumn of 2018 to be submitted to social consultation by the Ministry of Justice. Social consultation was characterised by a high degree of interest and cooperation in which the proposal was widely expressed by citizens and by law enforcement. It is also outstanding and thanks to the very active and active involvement of the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information in preparing the bill, in which the Authority has kept an eye on the progress of the proposal, and has expressed its views on the amendments prepared by the ministries. Dear Parliament, Where Article 6 of the General Data Protection Regulation already allows the processing of personal data based on consent, contract or legitimate interest, and where the Regulation allows Member States' law to derogate or to lay down additional rules for the processing of personal data, data controllers should establish their processing directly on the legal bases of the General Data Protection Regulation. In the case of such processing, the legislator may no longer impose specific conditions, but it should be stressed that the deregulation of these provisions does not mean the termination of the obligations contained therein, but merely that the obligation will arise directly from Union law, i.e. the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation. The principles of the General Data Protection Regulation, already known in Hungarian law, such as legality, purposefulness, data saving, accuracy or limited storage, fully affect the data processing relationship, and the data controllers must be able to demonstrate that these conditions have been fully met. Among the legislative amendments covered by the bill are a number of amendments which, giving priority to EU law, repeal or amend the specific data processing rules currently regulated in the Hungarian legal system. For example, in the case of data processing based on the so-called legitimate interest, Article 6 (1) (f) of the General Data Protection Regulation (General Data Protection Regulation), the bill will amend and possibly repeal the Hungarian legal rules. However, I stress once again that the repeals in the proposed legislation do not change the domestic regulatory environment, since, as the regulation becomes applicable, the rules contained in the proposal should already be applied to the priority of EU law, so the bill does nothing but clearly define the applicable and applicable law in this respect. The proposal further clarifies that, in the absence of mandatory data processing imposed by law, the rules and legal bases of the General Data Protection Regulation apply to data processing relations. In addition to this logic, in respect of the legal relationships in which the processing of data is based on a contract and in which the maintenance of mandatory data processing is no longer justified, the proposal shall make the necessary amendments. In such cases, for example, the content of contractual data processing will not only be governed by law in relation to service providers and their clients; in these civil legal relationships, the controller will be considered to be able to deal with it with the strict principles of the Regulation. Dear House, In addition to the above, however, the proposal includes a number of innovations welcomed by law enforcement. These include amendments to the Act on the Management and Protection of Health and related Personal Data. The proposal also allows the treatment of health data by this law in the event of a voluntary, explicit will and a credible contribution to the proper declaration. As I mentioned earlier, as one of Europe's strictest regulations, the Hungarian data protection legislation guaranteed the right of citizens to the protection of personal data at a very high level. The proposal, continuing this tradition in several places, strengthens the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation and strengthens the safeguards to protect the data subjects, such as the provisions of the Trade Act on the book of buyers. The amendment obliges the trader to remove the registration containing the complaint without delay and store it separately for subsequent official use in order to protect the personal data contained therein. Dear Parliament, In addition to the above, the General Data Protection Regulation also provides Member States with the possibility to adopt different or clarification rules. Through these so-called flexibility or open clauses, the European legislator sought to ensure the necessary flexibility of the Regulation, recognising that, in certain legal relationships, existing rules in the Member States could be so different that it might be justified to provide for regulatory room for manoeuvre in these situations. These include Article 88 of the General Data Protection Regulation, which specifically allows Member States to lay down more specific rules on employment in order to ensure the protection of rights and freedoms in relation to the processing of workers' personal data in relation to employment. [[13.10]] The bill also amends Act I of 2012 on the Labour Code, which is complemented by a new chapter on data processing related to work relations, using this option provided in so-called open clauses. In this place, the Labour Code will also regulate the employer's rights and obligations in relation to the processing of personal data and specific data, thus clarifying the rules of the General Data Protection Regulation. On the basis of the proposal, Mt. shall determine, in accordance with the need for increased protection of biometric data, the exceptional cases and specific conditions under which the employer may manage the biometric data of the employee. This way to Mt. to prevent unauthorised access to something or data in a restricted area where unauthorised access would result in serious or mass harm to the life, physical integrity, health or other interests protected by law, of the worker or of others. That's Mt. it also provides an exemplary list of the legal basis for the processing of biometric data in the case of an interest protected by law. However, in accordance with the principle of eligibility, in addition to complying with the general data protection rules, the employer must also demonstrate that the conditions for the handling of biometric data exist, such as the Regulation and the Mt. The provisions of this Regulation will apply together. It's also Mt. The proposal also provides for the processing of the employee's criminal personal data in the context of the amendment. The European legislator has left the regulation of this type of data to the legislator of the Member States, on which this House has decided that the strict conditions for specific data should continue to apply, while maintaining a high level of protection of these data. According to the planned rules, the employee's criminal personal data, such as the employee's moral certificate, can only be handled for the purpose of examining whether the law or the employer does not restrict or exclude employment in the job they wish to perform or in the job they perform. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, To sum up, therefore, the General Data Protection Regulation is intended to implement the EU law, which is directly in force and applicable, as the last stage in the implementation of the EU data protection reform concerning the processing of personal data. I would ask my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-02-20-76	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr Péter Ovádi, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2019-02-20-77	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In 2016, as a product of the co-legislator activity of the European Council and the European Parliament, EU Regulation 2016/679 provided for the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and the repeal of a previous Regulation on data protection. The Regulation adopted by the legislative bodies of the European Union aims to bring about full legal unification in respect of the areas of law covered by it in respect of all processing relationships. It will become directly applicable in our national law after its entry into force, in terms of its scope. It is our country's duty to ensure consistency between EU law and Hungarian law in compliance with its obligation to harmonise legislation. From May 2018, the law of the European Union obliges Hungary to bring into force the domestic legislative provisions necessary for the application and enforcement of the regulation. Our existing national legal system currently regulates the data protection provisions which are generally applicable across the whole of Hungarian law in a law, the Act on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information. This type of legal solution is traditional in our domestic law, as is the fact that individual sectoral laws are linked to these general laws. Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian legislator wanted to maintain this traditional regulatory solution in order to enforce the principle of legal system conventions and saving standards, of course within the framework of Community law. Accordingly, the Regulation will be implemented by amending the Act on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information. All this has been achieved on the one hand, the 13th of 2018 amending the info law for legal harmonisation purposes. Act XXXVIII of 2018 amending the info law in the context of the European Union's data protection reform and amending other related laws. the adoption of a law. Dear House, The purpose of the bill before us is to make amendments to the 86 sectoral laws included in it in order to ensure the coherence of the legal system. The Hungarian legislator must therefore take into account the fact that, in addition to the general rules laid down in the info law, a number of sectoral standards governing the processing of personal data apply, which apply in addition to or by way of derogation from the general rules. In this way, a review of the specific rules on data processing in respect of sectoral laws is absolutely necessary, in particular those provisions which may no longer be maintained as soon as the Regulation is applied. Such provisions include, for example, the legal definitions identical to those contained in the Regulation or the conditions for processing data based on a legal basis outside the scope of mandatory data processing laid down in the Regulation, or the rigid or flexible references to the standards of the info law and to the legal institutions which they are required to regulate. I believe that the proposal presented also contains a great deal of innovations to assist the enforcement of the law. For example, the proposal adapts the treatment of health data in this law to the level of protection provided by the General Data Protection Regulation by allowing their treatment to be managed on the basis of adequate information, voluntary, clearly expressed will and in a certain way to make a proper declaration. In any case, the innovations of the bill include the use of so-called open clauses, the essence of which is that the General Data Protection Regulation provides Member States with the possibility to apply rules that differ or clarify the regulation. The reason for this is that, in certain legal relationships, existing rules in the Member States may differ so that it is appropriate to provide for regulatory room for manoeuvre in these situations. The Hungarian legislator also wishes to make use of this option in the context of the amendment of the Code of Work, when introducing a chapter on data processing in relation to labour relations. Dear Parliament, In my view, the present proposal makes sufficient progress in deregulation and amendment of the legislative provisions which, by referring to the info law, seek to regulate legal institutions which cease, amend or which are already regulated by the Regulation as directly applicable in the subject matter, with the entry into force of the proposal on the House's table. In view of what has been said, the Fidesz Group supports the adoption of the proposal submitted. I ask all my fellow Members to do the same. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-02-20-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2019-02-20-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/4479 in front of us. It is a legislative proposal for the implementation of the European Union's data protection reform and, as such, a very serious codification work. I would like to thank the staff of the Ministry of Justice for this enormous work, the adaptation of 86 laws, in accordance with the provisions of EN 2016/679. Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council has been implemented. I also welcome the proposal, as my previous colleague Péter Ovádi said, that, in addition to adaptation in the field of health and labour law, he has introduced innovations that are adapted to life and which help to protect data in those areas. 86 legislation, which is amended by this bill, indeed regulates conditions of life in which practitioners are forced to process data, and since all legislation was created in different periods, the oldest in 1988, and perhaps the youngest in the mid-2000s, so it is natural that these principles, which were laid down in the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, could not be precisely regulated in these legislation. [[13.20]] The last year was the year 2018/XIII. Act and Act 2018/XXXVIII By law, we have adapted the requirements of this Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council in the law on the right of information self-determination, this Parliament has voted in favour of it, and indeed, now all that was needed was to make amendments in sectoral legislation that comply with the European Council Regulation. I also think it is heroic, Mr Secretary of State, that he has read and presented this dry material, but the fact that there is rarely before this House that there is a need to amend a new approach to coherence disorders and new legislative proposals at the same time, and we hope that with this amendment we will really help the practitioners. The Jobbik faction, of course, welcomes the work that has been done, welcomes the submission to this House, will vote on it, and thank you once again for the fact that this somewhat heroic work has been done so well by the staff of the Ministry of Justice, and has been made easier for us to do so. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-02-20-80	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr András Aradszki, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2019-02-20-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The T/4479 in front of us. About the continuation of last year's legislation, during which the Hungarian Parliament, by amending the info law, met the requirements for harmonisation of laws, which was initiated by the General Data Protection Regulation (General Data Protection Regulation), Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council. I believe that the first obstacle has been met by the Hungarian Parliament by deadline, and now we have a much bigger, more comprehensive task to do and accept the necessary amendments to the individual sectoral laws so that legal harmonisation in the field of data protection can be completed and followed up. I believe that the General Data Protection Regulation has significantly rewritten, re-established or consolidated the European Data Protection Frameworks and that, after its adoption in the form of a regulation, the provisions contained therein also have direct effect on the laws of the Member States, and that is why it is necessary to amend sectoral regulation in accordance with the framework laid down therein. In fact, the direction of this can be divided into three groups, three directions can be defined. On the one hand, the rules currently in force, which contain definitions, should not be contrary to the General Data Protection Regulation with direct effect, because they must be identical to those contained in the General Data Protection Regulation and their existence is unnecessary in the current Hungarian legislation. Furthermore, it was necessary to specify that there were no other rules in force in the Hungarian legislation regarding data processing based on the legal bases laid down in Article 6 of the Data Protection Regulation, and to delete any references referring to the information law in the light of the previous data protection regime, which may no longer be in force. This is precisely an amendment to 86 laws, and this was done by the judicial wallet with very hard and commendable work. I now express my appreciation for the work that has been done, and hopefully, the diligent and attentive work has succeeded in not having any coherence problems. Overall, what has been an innovation, in addition to what has been said, in the legislative proposal submitted, is primarily about health regulation and the Labour Code, but let us not forget that we have a major package of legislative amendments affecting all parts of our lives. When I think about the fact that, from bankruptcy, winding-up proceedings, the laws on electricity, natural gas and other water utility services, the law on the rights of nationalities, and even the Act on Parliament itself, it also amends it from a data protection point of view, it also shows how significant and often interrelated legislation, including identical or nearly identical regulations, was needed to be examined. I'd like to use a half sentence to regulate the labor code. At the moment, a chapter in the current Labour Code regulates the protection of personal rights within the framework of the employment relationship. This chapter will also include the rules for the use of computers received from the employer. This has raised many questions about the application of law recently, which have raised several disputes and issues of interest to the press. The bill now provides in general for the employee to use the computer device received from the employer for work unless otherwise agreed, only for the purpose of creating an employment relationship. The employer will be entitled to verify this; of course, he will only be able to check legally the data generated in connection with the work. This is also a regulatory part that can be described as innovation in legislation, and the General Data Protection Regulation has given us the opportunity to do so. Overall, on behalf of the Christian Democratic People's Party, I can join the speakers before me, the Christian Democratic People's Party supports the adoption of the proposal and calls on the other parties of the Parliament to also support the adoption of this important regulation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-02-20-82	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, leader of the Democratic Coalition. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-02-20-83	Mr President, Dear House, Unfortunately, I cannot share the enthusiasm of my pro-government colleagues and the Rainbow Coalition of Jobbik, because I must say that there are several problems with this legislation. That is indeed true, and it is therefore a matter of recognition to the colleagues of the Ministry of Justice that they have carried out a huge legislative task in order to comply with the rules on data processing laid down in sectoral laws in order to comply with the new EU legislation. Unfortunately, however, they were late on the one hand; we have also discussed this in the previous laws on data protection, which clearly surprised the Ministry of Justice by the fact that this legislation was now adopted almost three years ago. The rules on data protection were entered late and separately in the previous two rounds. It would have been very professional if, in the previous parliamentary term, the entire package had been brought before Parliament, and in this way it would have been possible to discuss and see these regulations in its unity. However, a greater problem is that, contrary to the objectives of the whole EU data protection legislation, this proposal does not restrict, but expands data processing in a number of areas and allows data processing in areas where this is not necessary, where this does not serve the public interest, but various government or private interests. Let me give you four examples. First of all, it allows education data, the data recorded in the education register, which already has very wide access to various public bodies, to be extended to the labour supply system. The kind of fear that we expressed at the time in the educational records is that they want to create a register that, in violation of personality rights, gives state organisations a very wide insight into the educational data of citizens, it is now quite obvious. [[13.30]] I'm not surprised there's no data protection commissioner's opinion in addition to the bill, by the way. I think that there will be a series of problems. This kind of regulation is not reassuring at all. I must say that, in our view, the GDPR as a whole does not comply with the rules, and we are confident that this will result sooner or later in the end of this case with concrete harm and courts, not only necessarily in Hungary. The second problem is the rules on private security companies, the protection of persons and property. Here, in essence, this provision removes the guarantees relating to the recording of images and sound in the current legislation. We know you like these private security companies, they use them in the bill. Mr. Secretary of State is looking at you in disbelief. I would like to draw your attention to the comparison between the new and the current 30. § of the law. It is quite clear how many guarantees are coming out of the existing legislation. Also this type of point is 100. The proposal amending the Labour Code. It gives employers a wide right to verify and record the various personal data of employees and, as they do in the slave law, where a formal contribution is required, they will do the same for workers who do not agree to the recording of their personal data in the labour code. Clearly, there is no symmetrical situation here between the employer and the employee. When you allow employers to control employees widely, you make them as slaves and vulnerable as overtime rules. This is your message to workers and workers. You tell them you're on the side of the owners, you're on the employer's side, and that the employee, the employee, if you like, the worker in this country has no rights while you're on the government. Finally, the Members of Parliament will receive a gift, thank you very much. The Parliamentary Guard is also authorised to record a voice and image as an organization intended to intimidate Members of Parliament. But don't worry about that. I'm happy to let you record all my actions. I'm not afraid of you. But it is shameful that you are trying to intimidate Members of Parliament, and it is also shameful that you are partners in this. Thank you very much.
u2019-02-20-84	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches if there is a candidate. [[No signal.]] [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. For further speaking within a normal time frame? (No indication. ) There's also no sign of anyone. Dear Parliament, As no one has applied for further speeches, the general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State, who, as rapporteur, wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-02-20-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank my fellow Members for their support and for their recognition of the work that professionals have done in our ministry or in sectoral ministries in drawing up this bill. At the same time, I would also like to thank the NAIH for its activities here. Although my fellow Member, Mr Arató, objected to the lack of an opinion, they were involved in the drafting of this legislation. [[Gergely Harvestó: They participated. What does it mean?]] So, of course, their comments were incorporated as well. [[Gergely Arató: We do not see the comments!]] That kind of... I think that the comments were incorporated into the draft legislation during the discussions, and they were obviously not challenged afterwards, because their own proposals were reflected in it. I hope that this will continue in the future. As regards the various points raised by Mr Arató, as to what kind of guarantees were lost, perhaps he did not pay attention, I also pointed out in the expozee that the guarantees provided for in the regulation had, of course, been removed from the legislation, as they constitute the primary applicable legislation in this area. As far as the concerns of workers are concerned, this has been the case; even thinking of a job as a cashier, where it is obvious that an employer should know the history of a person who does such a job, that he has not had a problem with it in a similar job. But let us remember that Parliament has recently dealt with, for example, the exclusion of abuse by those who deal with vulnerable people, children or caregivers entrusted to it, so that precisely who has committed such a crime cannot be employed in such an area, the kind that appears to be... Yes, what was again mentioned in the introduction, there are cases where these rights may be limited, precisely in order to avoid violations due to the repetition of criminal offences. You can also see that data processing and storage guarantees appear in all regulations. It can also be seen that data subjects can follow the path of these data and know that they can object at any time if they feel that these frameworks are exceeded. Perhaps it would be better for a lawyer from DK to study it before the objections and perhaps to establish a kind of professional consensus on such professional proposals. Thank you for your attention, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks. Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]]
u2019-02-20-86	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The amendment... Congressman, if you don't mind... thank you very much for your understanding. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the bill on trust foundations will follow up until closure. Government referral T/4513. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2019-02-20-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, One of the main objectives of the new bill on trust foundations before you is to increase Hungary's economic, legal and intellectual competitiveness. Today, I wish to present to you the directions and reasons of the bill on trust funds. Law V of 2013 on the Civil Code renewed the rules on foundations and ensured the establishment of so-called family foundations. In this way, it was possible, in a narrow circle, for both the founder and the connector and their relatives to be the beneficiaries of the Foundation. The Ptk. However, it maintained the principle that a foundation cannot be established for the pursuit of an economic activity. However, there was a need to create a foundation for professional asset management, whether natural persons or legal persons. Foreign regulatory models show that the foundation can be qualified as a legal entity for a longer term, even through generations, to manage private assets. During the preparation of the regulation, the rapporteur concluded that, given the number and speciality of the detailed rules, the Ptk was not worthwhile. to break down and include within the framework of its regulatory system for foundations the different provisions on trust funds. It has therefore decided to regulate this subject separately by law. This was all the more justified because the proposed regulation also differentiates between different types of trust funds, which would have unnecessarily burdened the system of our civil code. However, the specific legislation does not change the fact that trust foundations are foundations, and therefore, without the different rules of this special law, they are also included in the Ptk. The provisions of the Foundation shall apply and, as foundations, shall clearly be governed by the sectoral rules applicable to the foundations. Dear House, The creation of a separate law on trust foundations, in line with the government's competitiveness efforts over the last cycle, is part of a series of legal measures aimed at encouraging foreign investment in Hungary and raising capital abroad. The Trust Foundation can be a suitable means of attracting foreign capital to Hungary, thereby contributing to increasing the country's competitiveness. In the domestic context, the need to set up more capital-powered trust funds has also become apparent. Ensuring the organisational framework for such foundational operations and, not least, a stronger representation of the management of foundational assets in the Foundation's legislation are important elements that the legislator has now had to take action. In view of what has been said so far, this step was justified not only by domestic needs but also by foreign examples. The bill on trust foundations is aimed at meeting this need recognised by the legislator. [[13.40]] The bill allows the establishment of a specific form of foundation which manages assets with the assets assigned to it by the founder and with the resulting income in order to carry out the purposes and tasks set out in the articles of association. This new type of property management foundation is also capable of achieving public interest objectives and preserving family assets for several generations. The bill therefore differentiates between different types of trust funds. According to what has been said, the trust fund may be in the public interest, but it also aims to treat the property in the form of a foundation with private interests. In particular, the bill sets out the public interest objectives that may serve as the basis for the public interest rating of the trust fund. These objectives include the financing or support of educational, higher education, health, charitable, social, family, children's and youth, cultural or sporting activities, or the maintenance and operation of institutions performing such activities. Higher education also offers excellent opportunities for its application. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, It is also important to point out that the trust fund is a capital-powered institution, therefore, regardless of whether it is of public interest or not, it has become necessary to establish the minimum amount of assets to be allocated to the Foundation, which is called the minimum amount of capital. Based on international experience, it is clear that the establishment of a trust fund is only profitable over a specific capital size. Accordingly, the bill determines the amount of the foundational property order at least HUF 600 million. On the one hand, the minimum capital is in line with the interests of the founder, as it guarantees that the assets assigned to the foundation cannot be consumed by operating and administrative costs and, on the other hand, protects the creditors of the foundation because it provides them with a guarantee that adequate assets are available to cover their claims. The draft law requires the Trust Foundation to draw up an investment policy in which the basic rules for the management and use of the Foundation's assets must be laid down. The bill leaves room for the founder's decision, offers a variety of options. For example, it allows the founder to entrust the exercise of his founding rights to the managing body of the Foundation, the board of trustees, to appoint the Board itself to exercise its rights in this regard, or subsequently to delegate these rights and obligations to the Foundation itself, so that these rights can also be exercised by the Board. In the event of such a provision, the founder essentially waives any influence on the operation of the Trust Foundation by its founding decisions, thereby giving rise to greater autonomy of the Foundation. However, there is no obstacle for the founder to retain his founder's rights for himself and to exercise them in full. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the bill contains a special provision for the trust fund's organisation in view of its activities and its significant capital strength. For example, the compulsory number of members of the board of directors of the Foundation shall be established in at least five natural persons. The bill also requires the establishment of a supervisory board or the appointment of a permanent auditor. The latter shall, inter alia, assess the assets not made available in cash for the benefit of the Foundation. In the event that, by virtue of the founding provision, the founding rights are exercised by the Board, the bill shall ensure that the functioning of the Foundation's articles of association and the provisions of the bill can be monitored by an external body or person outside the Foundation's organisation, namely the Foundation's auditor appointed by the founder. The Foundation property controller shall be the external auditor of the management of the trust fund's assets, which may monitor the functioning of the Board of Governors and the Supervisory Board of Foundations which exercise their founding rights, and shall be entitled to request this staff to exercise their rights and to fulfil their obligations. I consider that, in the end, the property controller is entitled to the right to initiate the legality supervision procedure to be highlighted among the rights which the Foundation property inspector may exercise in his audit activities. In the cases provided for in the articles of association, the Foundation property inspector shall also be entitled, on the basis of the authorization of the articles of association to do so, to challenge any decision of the Board or the Supervisory Board which violates the statutes or the rules of investment in the courts. I would also like to draw attention to the guarantee rule of the bill aimed at safeguarding the foundation's property. In order to safeguard the property, the founder may specify in the articles of association the extent to which the property of the foundation cannot be reduced. If the Foundation's assets do fall to this level, payments by the Foundation shall be reduced or even terminated proportionately until the Foundation's assets exceed this minimum level. Finally, I have to mention that the bill intends to regulate two additional cases in addition to the reasons for the termination of the trust fund as defined in the Ptk. On the one hand, the bill would not prevent the founder exercising his founding rights from asking the court to terminate the non-public trust fund. On the other hand, according to the bill, the trust fund whose assets are below the minimum capital for three full years will be terminated. A trust fund in such a situation cannot achieve its objective or the granting of benefits to beneficiaries because it cannot fulfil its obligation to preserve assets. Based on what has been said, it can be concluded that the rules on trust funds aim to increase Hungary's economic, legal and intellectual competitiveness, thus encouraging foreign investments. I ask this House, with its vote in favour, to contribute to the adoption of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-02-20-88	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr István Bajkai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-02-20-89	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, We all know the saying, Latin proverb: finem vita specta, i.e. look at the end of your life and think that you will never be again. In fact, the draft legislation on foundations, if traced back in the long term, has such a philosophical depth and a philosophical basis. The purpose of the bill before us, as Mr Secretary of State has said, is to recommend and regulate the foundation as a legal person governed by the Civil Code, in addition to the existing legislation currently in force, as a trust institution for both investors and those wishing to establish such a foundation. The bill allows for the establishment of a special form of foundation which, using the property assigned to it by the founder and the income derived from it, carries out asset management in order to carry out the purposes and tasks specified in the articles of association. The trust fund shall not carry out any economic activity other than asset management in a manner other than that of the companies. Although the new civil code foundation regulation allowed for the creation of private foundations, it did not fundamentally change the traditional system of civil law within the traditional framework of the foundational legal institution which returned at the end of the 1970s. In recent years, however, the need to set up more capital-powered trust funds has been raised, to ensure the organisational framework for such foundational activities, which are also attractive to investors, and not least to make the management of foundational assets more prominent in the Foundation's legislation, with regard to which the legislator has now had to act. Moreover, this step is justified not only by domestic needs but also by foreign examples. It is important to note that the trust fund is also a foundation. The bill seeks to create a specific type of foundation by means of more differentiated regulation that goes beyond the general provisions governing foundations. On issues not covered by the bill, the provisions of the Civil Code and other sectoral legislation, such as the Civil Code, also apply and govern the Foundation accordingly. [[13.50]] The Trust Foundation is a sub-type of the Foundation governed by the Civil Code, for which the foundation purpose is not so much as the foundation's activity is the determining element, the most distinctive. For this reason, it is of particular importance in this context that the Trust Foundation is set up specifically to carry out asset management activities in order to achieve the objectives set out in the articles of association and to grant the beneficiaries or beneficiaries specified therein, and to ensure the achievement of its objectives through the return of that activity. The bill also differentiates between different types of trust funds. The bill aims not only to facilitate the creation of capital-powered family foundations, but also of foundations that maintain and operate institutions. The bill also provides an opportunity for what Mr Secretary of State has also said to establish the trust fund for a public interest purpose. In this context, the bill specifically identifies public interest objectives such as the financing or support of educational, higher education, health, charitable, social, family, children's and youth, cultural or sporting activities, or the maintenance and operation of institutions performing such activities. In accordance with their objectives and operational principles, trust funds are capital-powered institutions and therefore, regardless of whether they are of public interest or not, other relevant foreign capital minimums not yet known in the domestic fund regulations, but which exist primarily in European states, to be assigned to the Foundation's benefit, have become necessary. Accordingly, the bill defined the amount of foundational property order at least HUF 600 million; this was also defined as a minimum of capital. The regulation before us leaves room for the founder's decision, giving several opportunities. For example, it allows its founders to entrust the exercise of their founding rights to the Foundation's managing body, the Board, to appoint the Board itself to exercise its rights in this regard, or to delegate these rights and obligations to the Foundation. The founder may, therefore, waive any influence on the operation of the Trust Foundation by its founding decisions, thereby giving rise to greater autonomy of the Foundation. However, there is no reason why the founder should retain his founder's rights for himself and fully exercise them himself. As regards the structure of the Trust Foundation, basically the rules of the Civil Code may be applied. At the same time, the bill contains a number of specific provisions in view of the activities and significant capital power of the Trust Foundation. For example, it establishes the mandatory number of members of the Board of Governors in at least five natural persons, excluding the possibility of setting up a board of directors with a lower number of members or members of legal entities. The bill also requires the establishment of a supervisory board or the appointment of a permanent auditor. In the event that the founding rights are exercised by the Board, the bill shall ensure that the functioning of the Foundation in accordance with its articles of association and the provisions of the bill is controlled by an external body or person outside the Foundation's organisation, namely the Foundation's auditor. According to the bill, therefore, the fund manager is the external auditor of the asset management of the trust fund. The right to initiate the legality supervision procedure should be highlighted among the rights which the Foundation Property Inspector may exercise in his audit activities. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, In the case of a trust, the founder shall assign serious assets to specific purposes and organisational functions. The bill was based on the assumption that the founder's decision on these matters could be changed by the board of trustees exercising the founder's rights only if he was authorized by the founder. Therefore, in the event that the Board has not been authorised to amend the articles of association, it is only possible for the Board to amend it in the limited scope that the circumstances that have changed since its establishment, including the legal environment, justify, without which, therefore, the achievement of the Foundation's objectives or the management of the Foundation's assets to that end would be affected. At the same time, matters for which the statutes cannot be amended by the Board may be identified in the articles of association. In such cases, the articles of association may not be amended by the Board of Governors, and the amendment may be made by the Board only if this is necessary due to legislative changes. If the amendment of the articles of association concerns the objectives of the Trust Foundation, such amendment shall be possible for the founder only, free of restriction, and shall be permitted only if the Trust Foundation is not in the public interest, or if it is not in the public interest or not, the Board does not exercise its founding rights. Therefore, in the event that the trust fund exercises its founding rights in the public interest or regardless of public interest, there is no sufficient reason that the objectives of the trust fund's articles of association may subsequently be amended, either by the founder's or by the trustee's board exercising its rights, without prejudice to the restrictions laid down in the Civil Code. The bill for the termination of the trust fund on the grounds of termination laid down in the Civil Code is set out in Article 403 of the Civil Code. In addition to the two cases regulated in paragraph 1 of Section 1. On the one hand, the bill does not wish to prevent the founder exercising his or her rights from asking the court to terminate the non-public trust fund, thus derogating from the provision of the civil code, which does not know such grounds of termination or termination. On the other hand, the bill provides that the trust fund, as it has already been, will cease to exist even if its assets do not reach the minimum capital for three full years. A trust fund in such a situation cannot achieve its objective or the granting of benefits to beneficiaries, since it cannot fulfil its obligation to preserve assets, even taking into account its lowest level. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, The bill before us, taking into account international examples and practices, is indeed a substitute and provides an appropriate regulatory environment to open the way for professional and professional asset management within the framework of a foundation, with effective safeguards. Dear fellow Members, In view of all this, I ask that you support this bill. Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-20-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. First, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-02-20-91	Mr President, Dear House, It is misleading to look around the House to examine the presence, because we are not in a late hour, when very serious proposals are being sprung by the government, suggesting that opposition momentum and vehemence may subside. At this time around 2:00, however, the number is not much stronger on the side of the pro-government representatives than on a very serious, very prominent topic. [[In the notary seat György Szilágyi will be replaced by Bence Tordai.]] I would like to thank you for your introduction. I've been briefed on a lot of things. It is not only cynicism that says this to me, because I see that although nothing has been said about the real purpose of the proposal, I think, I see two great goals behind it, but it has indeed guided me to at least try to explain what I think is very difficult. And with regard to these two steps, with regard to two objectives, I see that, on the one hand, a purpose of saving assets may be concentrated along the lines of the establishment of trust funds, more precisely along the lines of the amendment that lies before us, because the author rightly noted that the Civil Code does give some scope for managing family foundations. It could have been touched in a different direction, but it wasn't. But it seems to me that if the wealth that has been saved under strange circumstances and in the order of tens of billions over the last few years can eventually end up with such a family-name, characterized foundations, and then be taken out of dividends, eventually loses the character of public money in a declared manner. [[14.00]] So we can get there along the lines of the transactions that, where appropriate, are being investigated by an Anti-Fraud Office, which have violated the regulations and laws on public procurement, and which have thus accumulated, let's say, in the hands of an oligarch, through an oligarch, through a foundation, except as dividends, and, if you like, laundered, may essentially be exempted from any accusations or suspicions of public money. But perhaps this can now be interpreted as a sideline in addition to the provisions relating to the MTA and the plowing intention on which my fellow Member is right, and I will hold my head the same way when I first face these completely onionous ideas. My fellow Members on the government side say that action had to be taken. Indeed, I can see that they had to act quickly, because in a few days, a bill on which there is light, unpreparedness, and, in fact, a number of things is being expected. On the one hand, opposition representatives are expected to assist with new chapters in the establishment of the regulation budget, as we see that if they want to take money from the MTA, the Academy of Sciences, what they should do: either amend the budget law here in the House, this is not typical of you, what they do is that they form a sufficient reserve ratio, they cover expenditure from it, and they are not really talking to Parliament, let alone the opposition at this time; or, in the case of universities, it may be enough to have a government decree. So now, on a relatively narrow base, but their field of action is visible, it can be seen in action. But if you don't touch a ministry chapter, you don't change the budget, and you set up trust funds, what happens? It is enough to make a decision on its part, not even in the Hungarian Gazette, not to confront opposition, not to pretend that there is a democratic and legitimate parliament. The trustee makes a decision quite simply, the bail-out happens, and they don't even have to deal with transparency, because in essence, hardly anyone will know about it; I think about it not only because of the Hungarian Gazette, but because they can do it under the radar. If you can give me international examples of this, then I think there may be a legitimate basis for debate here. But if you can set an international example of asking a Academy of Sciences to put your entire equipment system somewhere, in exchange for measurable rights, your vulnerability, your dependence on the government will become amazing, and even the researchers there will lose their status as civil servants, it's absolutely amazing! If you can give me such an international example, even if you refer to it, then I say that this justification can at least form a basis for debate, so I have questions and question marks. I also have questions about the operation of the MTA. So if anyone has had a lot of disputes with the Academy, then it is me, because if we look at, say, the issue of research into the history of Hungarian origins, then I will be a great opponent of the Academy's activities over the last decades, but that is not what this story is about. So if something doesn't work right, if something doesn't work the way we want it to work, then it's not the right way to plow it in, to stop it, to reorganize it, to outsource it, to take away your assets, to take away your privileges, to bleed your people out. It's an ancient Bolshevik method, please. [[György Szilágyi: That's right!]] (The chair is occupied by Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament. Attila Móring József is replaced by Dr. István Simicskó in the notary seat.) The thing is, I can't identify with that, even if the victim is someone I might disagree with on certain subjects. If someone wanted to take away their right to freedom of expression from my fellow Member from Bajkai, I would stand by you and fight for your opinion, which I disagree with. It's the same here, please. So when such an amazing withdrawal of rights occurs, it would happen in this way, and this whole story is drowning in a sea of cynical justifications, and I am not thinking of you, my fellow Member, but, let us say, that the MTA would not receive a significant package of shares, but that it would have to bring in most of the foundational assets. When the M.T.A. representative asked you what answer did you get? He was told that the foundation was open, that he could join a venture capitalist or anyone. But, please, if I were supposed to accept your justification, you couldn't draw this fortune out of there, you couldn't make a profit, then what in God's name would any venture capitalist join in there? Why would someone take his investment or his money there? There is only one case: if this property is falsified, its profits can be outsourced, or if it can be saved by some insidious means. There's no other reason for someone to show up there as an investor. To sum up, this construction does not create a new source of research, it does not bring anything new on the economic or market front, it raises a strong suspicion of wealth saving, and if we add it to the European news that EU funds can arrive at a hundred billion-dollar scale for research and development, innovation, specifically for this area, then it may also be understood why the government wants to put its hands on this whole sphere, why it wishes to plow in a scene that it would not have anything to do with, because it could not touch the freedom of researchers. Taking the status of a civil servant is a clear indication that the government has set off on this forbidden path. Once again, I am also trying to protect those with whom I am debating a lot of issues, with whom I disagree on a lot of things, but this ancient Bolshevik method is not the way to improve and modernise market processes, cultural processes. CHAPTER XXI In the century, what they're about to do is unacceptable. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-02-20-92	Thank you very much. Hello. We will continue our work, and Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm will continue to give the lead speech to Jobbik. Here you go.
u2019-02-20-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, allow me, Mr Secretary, to predict that my words will not be addressed to you. Especially because I am convinced that this bill was not drawn up in the Ministry of Justice, and I also believe that no official of the Ministry of Justice has anything to do with this law even at an idea level. I am also pleased that there are only four Members left in the benches from Fidesz, and they will certainly be convinced by my words that I will not speak to them. Still, you have to tell me what's behind this bill. We all know, we have lived, who we are here, and I think we can say by our age that we have experienced the conditions of the post-regime robbery privatisation, and we are well aware that at that time, and then in the following years, until 2000 what a wasteful way the state's assets were squandered that had been created during the previous period. We know exactly how many of these squandered public assets were well-placed with very serious assets, and then, as far as I know, my fellow Members with Fidesz and KDNP don't like it, over the last nine years, there has been a thousand billion forints of wealth saved, and the assets drained from public funds and EU funds have landed somewhere in the embodiment of some kind of wealth. Two years ago, I myself told my community that the moment would come, especially after the Civil Code was passed, that the possibility of creating foundations to hide family fortunes would appear. It's here. I didn't know why the spring session started, and then when I saw this bill on February 12th, I knew it was because their backup deals were still going on. Everyone in this House who is a Member has so much experience in life that they know exactly why this bill had to be submitted. We are well aware that this is about legalizing stolen property. I have been asked a number of questions by voters and colleagues. A wealth of such magnitude has been accumulated around the Prime Minister and his circles, which is extremely difficult to manage, extremely difficult to hide and extremely difficult to protect from speculators, we all know. They asked me on several occasions what would happen when one of them dies, for the rules of succession may even create a situation where the real owner of the estate loses his fortune. Then I was asked that the wealth hidden abroad was not seen there by anyone. I replied: but you can see that the authorities there can see exactly, which is why we are fully exposed to all the countries where these assets have landed, where these assets are managed; now, this is a national security risk. Then some people asked me what would happen if there was a failure. Usually, after seeing the fall of dictators from different countries in North Africa, all of them's foreign assets have suddenly been blocked; someone wants to avoid this too. The best instrument is the institution that can be seen from this legislation. 'Cause what are the benefits of that? [[14.10]] Just as celibacy was introduced in the Catholic Church in order to prevent the fragmentation of church property, so this legislation is designed to prevent the fragmentation of stolen and accumulated property. But it also says that they're finally trying to get rid of a couple of stooges, because they might be uncomfortable because they have a lot of assets under different names. And indeed, it can also result in the fact that if you invest property in this foundation abroad, you can no longer take it, because it belongs to a Hungarian foundation, not to the people who loot it. I know my words sound very harsh, but I hope that I will live to see these assets. But, in fact, I am calm to a certain degree, because we will see that when the assets in these foundations appear, at least we will see where the stolen property is, where it is embodied, what wealth and where it is accumulated. It's a double-edged weapon. It's also true that the black sheep of the families don't benefit, because these foundations are used to getting miners, and the founders of the foundations, if they die, don't inherit, just find out who fell out of the picnic and who comes into the next trust picnic. In the long run, I have to say, if I were the only family member in this circle, I wouldn't be at peace, because even though we're dealing with enormous wealth and the great-grandsons are going to live well, but I still think that this could be basically a moment's interest, which is today, but in the long run, they may not be doing so well. As a lawyer, it would, of course, be expected of me to carry out a legal analysis of this proposal, but it does not matter, in any legal sense, what is included in this legislative proposal. Moreover, if we compare this motion to set up a family trust fund, we can look at how these are regulated in the international space. The flexibility that we see in the justification of the legislation is amazing, the free hand that is allowed to trustees compared to what is regulated, for example, in Germany or the United States. In fact, when I think about it, all I had to do was write down the first and second sections, and the third section is that everyone who is involved in it doesn't matter what they are doing, because that's what the bill is about; but, of course, the one who made it up probably needed this flexibility. When the Civil Code came into force, we knew its contents, and this certain trust, trust management was introduced, then my first thought was to see now that it would be good for someone, because it would have made sense, and we just had to realize that the Hungarian man was mistrustful. Who would give that kind of money to a total outsider for treatment? Well, not much. That is why it was necessary to present this rule and to establish this institution. I will now finish this speech, since I do not have much time left, but I will press the button in the normal time frame, and I will continue to think about it. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-02-20-94	Thank you very much. The lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party is Mr András Aradski. Here you go.
u2019-02-20-95	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The T/4513 on Trust Foundations in front of us. Legislative proposal No. 1 implements a deficit replacement proposal, since it has proposed for the first time since the 1990 regime change a system of institutions to ensure that the survival of the accumulated assets and the management of all kinds of assets are covered by private, private trust foundations, as well as by establishing a more flexible asset management system for public-interest foundations. Why is this essential? It can be seen that since 1990, when you look at it, it is 2019, so after 29 years there is a generational change in the Hungarian economy. This generation change does not always go smoothly, it is not always possible for farmers to provide offspring, successors, to ensure that the accumulated wealth, the wealth acquired by work and farming, is in good hands, and thus, by getting into good hands, to continue to ensure continuous farming, that it remains able to ensure that the workers and their families are able to work properly and make a decent living. From this point of view, I think that it is necessary to allow for the legal regulation or establishment of this special form of foundation in order to ensure the smooth implementation of this generational change. I must disperse the fear that has been said by several opposition Members who have spoken before me that this is a means of saving wealth. The trust fund, i.e. the trust fund, will not be the owner of the property in question, which it will hand over to the foundation for the management of the founding property. The owner of the specifically managed foundations is the heir, the owner who is listed in the business register, the real estate register and the owner of the bank account. So I think the fear that this is an asset recovery cannot be talked about, because in this case there is no change of ownership, only that generation change is used or used, that if there is an heir to this property who cannot or does not want to deal with the continuation, further operational management, management, i.e. the management, he entrusts it to a trust fund for which he, as the owner of the asset, is able to intervene to the extent necessary if he sees the trustee in doing his job wrong. This proposal on trust foundations should also provide at least HUF 600 million worth of assets for asset management purposes by establishing exactly the minimum assets, showing that the so-called medium-sized or slightly larger family enterprises and business organisations have the opportunity to ensure the continuity of the operation of the holding through trust foundations. This will certainly also have a positive impact on economic growth, because business transactions in relation to wealth can provide investors with greater confidence and credibility in the case of a remaining well-managed wealth, because life does not stop with one of the assets being transferred to the trust fund, its operation, its exploitation goes according to the usual procedure, and it is in any case a good tool to do so by establishing the trust fund. There are many similar institutions in the so-called developed Western legal systems. Austrian, German, Swiss, Liechtenstein and Dutch foundation regulations have been examined, actually drawing on the proposal when, by the way, the Ptk. include the trust fund within the framework of a foundation structure based on its rules. I think it is an important decision for the future of the Hungarian economy that this kind of asset management opportunity is created. I also have to say that the trustee is interested in not reducing the assets entrusted to his management, because if the value of this is less than HUF 600 million, the trust fund in itself is so to say no longer entitled to manage the smaller assets. This has been regulated in the presentation and the applicability of this seems to be working successfully. [[14.20]] I must add that this is positive in this respect because the trustee himself is interested in not reducing the assets, and I am interested in increasing the wealth. Obviously, the Foundation's operating income will be guaranteed, which is why it is interested. There was also a direct example, to my knowledge, of the ownership of the company in respect of a company of significant value granted to a trust; it appeared that this significant company would go to bankruptcy or liquidation proceedings, and that the trustee did everything in his power not to do so. Even by redeploying assets, it ensured the continued operation of this significant company in order not to reduce the value of the assets managed or to reduce the value of the assets managed, and not to cease its activities. This is also important in that respect, because it also gives a kind of creditor protection image to the operation of trust foundations. Consequently, the further competitiveness of the economy will also be supported by the operation of trust foundations. Once again, I stress that the bill before us does not justify the fears that have just been said here, that this is a means of saving wealth, and on the contrary, it serves to keep wealth, to make wealth management clearer, and to ensure that in the future, the wealth accumulated can survive the difficulties arising from different generations changes, to continue to serve the Hungarian economy and to increase the Hungarian national product. I believe that this objective and the instruments assigned to it can be agreed, and that we can therefore support the bill before us. I may be able to make a motion worthy of amendment or consideration that, in the event of the liquidation or bankruptcy of the asset managed, those involved in the management of assets, i.e. the members of the board or the auditor of assets, should not be able to participate in the sale of the liquidated property during liquidation, because this really gives me a feeling of conflict of interest, at least, which is worth considering. I still believe that, from this point of view, the legislation can provide an age-changing, new direction for the stability of the Hungarian economy, it can provide assurance, and, more rightly, and further legislative amendments are, of course, necessary, which are affected by registration and other rules of conflict of interest, but I think that the judicial portfolio will prepare this and present what it needs to Parliament, which, if it is in the sphere of government, will bring it to the government. I think, once again confirming the previous ones, that, in agreement with the proposal, this is a very important piece of legislation, it serves a good purpose and gives security to the future of the Hungarian economy. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-20-96	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, the lead speaker of the MSZP is next. Here you go.
u2019-02-20-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to begin with what has been said at the meeting of the immunity committee this week. [[Dr. András Aradszki:]] where it was said that Members of Parliament, László Varju, I, Bernadett Szél and Ákos Hadházy at the MTVA headquarters, initiated the initiative to investigate the violation of our immunity. On this point, Mr Harghitai lectured us on what immunity applies to Members. One of the things you have drawn our attention to is that exactly what is being said here in plenary, if we do not become Members, we will not be held accountable by Members, whatever they say in the Chamber. Then I can tell you, since you can't hold me responsible, you're common criminals. This law proves they're criminals. Congressman, give us some examples of what kind of generational change and what wealth, which group of companies you're talking about. Give us some examples of where the inheritance was threatened and the accumulation of wealth was threatened, who would be the heir and how the company would continue to operate! Because I could tell you about how, say, in Hajdú-Bihar County, well-functioning companies were destroyed, when the bag people, the Fidesz-KDNP bag people showed up, blackmailed the companies, so that if they didn't give the company to X.Y. Fidesz entrepreneur immediately, how would they destroy it? Exactly at the end of last year, we can talk about three of these companies. You have to go to Hajdú-Bihar County, everyone knows the stories. If the manager accidentally said he was resisting the man in the bag, then they freed the finance guard, the APEH, everyone went, and the end was that they could get it even cheaper because they bled the company out. But it's been going on for years, I could give you a few examples... [[For signal:]] You're shaking your head, Mr. Secretary. I think we can give examples like this from every county. By the way, one of the best examples of this asset relief is the National Bank of György Matolcsy, who has delivered over HUF 270 billion to his foundations in recent years. If only two words or one sentence could be used to interpret this law, then we can say that this is also said by my better fellow Member: legalising the money theft of fidesz politicians by money laundering. That's what this is all about! [[For pro-government intervention:]] Well, you created the law, and I'm about to read it, Congressman, how! Let them say that there was a shortage of funds, Mr Bajkai, who said that there was a need for wealth management and that action had to be taken very quickly. Says the Member who, let's say, should have paid the EU 13 billion forints now due to the Elios case, but rather we decided that the taxpayers, the Hungarian taxpayers, were just about to pay for this theft. By the way, Congressman Bajkai assisted through his company, through his law firm, and his company damaged Hungarian families by billions of forints. You'd think they wouldn't be able to bring more and more laws to Parliament that would legalize the massive money theft that they've done over the years, but they still seem to be able to come up with ideas, come up with new ideas and legitimize the thefts of recent years. Such a foundation provides an opportunity to obtain various State aids. Tao subsidies should be highlighted as an example. This legal arrangement provides for the possibility to use A kft. provide sport organisations B with Tao money for sport support through Tao rules. After that, the kft. establish a trust fund to support sport activities. Sports organisation B is then the A-QT. A trust fund shall own the tao grants through the trust management institution. Above the foundation is A kft. may exercise full rights, the Tao grant recovered from Sports Manager B due to a trust agreement may be used for stock exchange operations by treating the property for the benefit of the sports organisation. True, the sports organization has to pay a fee for this. What makes the situation even more outrageous is that the minimum capital of 600 million HUF at the time of the foundation is provided to the foundation by trust management. That's when the kft. may do so by giving in the contract on trust management a condition for the repayment of the property which occurs in the weeks following the entry. In this case, you may take back the kft on the day following the entry. he put money into the foundation, and then he has three years to raise the foundation's assets to HUF 600 million. This can be done without any problems based on the previously described design. [[14.30]] This law gives rise to a number of forms of tax evasion, tax optimization, such as inheritance, gifting, avoiding any burdens. Furthermore, in view of the nature of the foundation, the possibility of offering 1 percent of the tax is also open, which may exist even in the case of payment from the foundation to the member of the board. Thus, the founder may return one part of his income from the Foundation to the Foundation. Tao money can be put into trust management by sports organisations to foundations that have been set up to support sport activities. In this case, these foundations are obliged to manage tao money in the interest of sports organisations, but they are free to manage it, benefit from it, and generate profits. We always say that the tao money that sports organisations get, the public money, the taxpayers' money, no matter how much they say they've been trying to prove for years that it's not public money, it's not what the state should pay as a tax forint. Thus, in practice, this construction gives us the opportunity to bring the Tao money back to economic life. It is important to point out that there is no ban on the creation of foundations by companies providing the largest Tao support, so that virtually Tao money is returned to themselves. For example, it's a kft. it can replay its own Tao support with the support of a sports organisation to its own foundation, which can control the foundation in its entirety. As shown in the previous paragraph, the trust fund can carry out practically business-like economic activities, mainly through the possibility of trust management. The latter contractual arrangement expands the economic potential of the foundation to such a level that we could even say that a foundation is primarily engaged in economic activity. The economic activity of the Foundation is problematic in several respects. On the one hand, it is not subject to guarantee rules for companies. Its liability is governed by the main rule of the legal person, which is unable to adequately manage the increased economic activity of the trust fund, so that the interests of creditors may be greatly damaged. Furthermore, the proposal itself recognises in its reasoning that the Foundation does not have an external body, on the basis of the main rules, to verify the use of the Foundation's assets from a practical point of view, or to initiate proceedings for the legality of asset management if the Board exercises its founding rights. To this end, the proposal establishes a position as a property controller, but given that this person is decided by the Foundation itself, the bias of the property controller can undoubtedly be achieved if the Board so requests. And this makes it worse for creditors, the wealth can easily travel abroad, to offshore companies, disappear. Basically, this is where the money laundering happens. The proposal contains interesting provisions even in the event of the termination of the Foundation. On the basis of these rules, the foundation will cease if its assets fall below HUF 600 million, and this condition continues for three years. This proposal regulates it as a case of impossibility. This three-year deadline is extremely long, giving the foundation flexibility to continue its economic activity, as it can reduce its assets to below 600 million for years due to an investment or capital market maneuver. Impossibleness sometimes raises questions, as the Ptk. In the event of an impossibility under its rules, the Foundation shall have the possibility to define its purpose differently from that of the past and to amend its instrument of incorporation. This option also appears to be given in the case of the trust fund. It seems to me that these three years have gone crazy with you, and now here with the trust fund and the overtime bill, when you said that the remuneration for the 400 hours overtime would be enough for you to get to the employee sometime in three years. It was said that pro-government politicians and secretary of state also asked the opposition that this was a substitute proposal, it was just in time for the plenary session of Parliament, and they asked for support from the opposition. I think that, not only do we not have to make amendments to this bill, but we simply have to remove it, Mr Members, Mr State Secretary, such a law cannot be brought before the Hungarian Parliament. You shouldn't have brought him in here. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Here it is!]]
u2019-02-20-98	Thank you very much. Mr László Varju, lead speaker for the Democratic Coalition Group, please.
u2019-02-20-99	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you very much for the opportunity, although it is not too happy that we have to talk about such a subject here, and I would like to confirm by expressing my opinion what is really going on here. But I would also like to give the story a different light, because I do not want to repeat what my fellow Members have already mentioned here, but let us look at further arguments, not with the intention that this might particularly affect you, but I am glad that we are being followed in the public domain, and that more and more people are faced with the situation of who the Fidesz Government is really representing, whose interests it is serving and what legislation it is putting forward here. They think that at the beginning of the cycle, it can be swallowed or pressed down people's throats. While, in many respects, I do not dispute that there are assets that you will find substantial demand for the operation of such a thing. So there's going to be some of these charities, we don't know how much yet, but we're sure there will be. But first, let me begin by saying that I agree that this is a missing story, that I should join the last thought of my fellow Member here. That is absolutely correct, this, which has been presented here, is a special piece of legislation, otherwise there is no such solution, which you have put forward here. Mr. Secretary of State is shaking his head that there is no such thing, but I think that the solution, going a little ahead, is that a founder will not remain alienated from the foundation, but otherwise he will remain a part of it and he will be able to operate there, I think that this is certainly unprecedented, at least in Hungary, and in this sense, I think I am right. What has been submitted is to say again how much capital will be created, under what personal conditions, under what foundation, I would not like to repeat this, because I think it is unnecessary. One thing I would definitely like to join here is that we do not yet know what the tax conditions of this foundation will be like, because, in addition to the advantages we have learned so far, even in taxation, a paragraph will appear in tax laws about what benefits the trust fund has, what opportunities it has. So this trick is still, I think, back. But in any case, it is very clear that you are avoiding a word, and none of you dared to say it on their lips, neither the Members, nor the Fidesz, nor the Prime Speakers of the KDNP, nor the Secretary of State, that it is all about family fortunes. The word "family" is avoided as a cat's hot porridge, and this should not be said, because it would be too easy to identify what is actually taken from the German territory as a practice in the international context. There is only a small difference that they are created there not through state aid, but by the operation of real, existing private assets, where they are specifically concerned that yes, there should be the possibility to transfer and protect family private assets over generations. [[14.40]] Then let's look at who might be affected by this, who we are talking about, because the share capital or initial capital of 600 million forints is just a start, what kind of opportunity we are talking about, to whom this law can help. Let's start with the data of the Hungarian Central Statistical Office, and let's look at it from the top ten thousand, or let's say that the top 10 percent is already available in Hungary with an income of HUF 5-6 million per year. The economic elite is around HUF 15-16 million. That means we're not talking about them yet, because they have nothing to do with this foundation. Then comes the basically 1000-1500 people who can save 300 million forints a year. Now we're about to start naming it, because it's not gonna be that hard. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Ferenc Gyurcsány!]] based on the operation of you for the last 8-9 years, who are involved in this, who are still being helped. The argument is, I would also like to point out that the generation change is now taking place with these entrepreneurs. With all due respect, your argument is not true. The generation change has been going on for ten years. Here they are now sensitive for other reasons to take this into account. It's a very simple item, even to consider your thoughts. In 1990, a 35-40-year-old, a new manager actually got the opportunity to start his business and went into the retirement age of 20 years when someone had to hand over the company, so ten years ago. So this process was already started, so this argument is not true. Here, suddenly, it is important how to legalize the wealth that has appeared in Hungary over the last ten years, and now the savings of HUF 5000 billion are those we are talking about, by the way. This wealth must be resolved in some way so that we do not have to move from Hungary to enjoy it even a little, so that they can stay in Hungary after all. So it follows that, while you, in connection with yesterday's work on the Corvinus Foundation, may I say, engage in a kind of debauchery, while you want to deal with the trust fund under the grass, simply say that both Ripper and Garanchi and Simicska, and everyone in this story in your mind, may have a family solution for these few people, a thousand people. Therefore, before I go into the details of the law, I would like to make it clear that this law is, of course, not supported. This proposal is not honest enough to be able to do so. In a sense, I could even say that I can treat it as a confession to the failure of the Orbán system, because this is the last phase of legalizing assets or assets acquired in the last ten years, and they think that after the replacement of a NER system, you will not have to deal with them in any particular way, they will become invincible. But I think you're too optimistic. Let us, however, see what makes this clear in this law. On the one hand, the regulation to raise this outside the civil code and to create a separate law on this, in itself, I think it is a novelty. But the solution that I have already mentioned to the Secretary of State is rather worrying, as I have just mentioned, that it allows for an unlimited merger in the case of the foundation under Article 5. §, according to which founding rights can be exercised by the board of trustees. In this case, the Board may elect the members of the Supervisory Board. There's no such thing! He's gonna check on himself, I'm gonna be checked by the person I've appointed. My dear gentlemen, how do you imagine this story? ! It's really the combination of kissers, and in that sense, it's relatively easy to play the story that it really remains in the power of you and the founders, beyond inheritance. When I mentioned in detail who could be affected by this, and I said that even 10 percent of Hungarian citizens did not, I also wanted to stress that 90 percent was certainly not, but only this 1500 of the 10 people, not all the others. But who's all the rest? All those other people who have been given a slave law instead of a fund-raiser. They are asked to do so because they do not ask, they have passed legislation and demand that they work day and night. I'm telling you this, by the way, as a ten-year man working in a mine, on behalf of people who, as workers, are putting their physical strength on the line every day. These people will have nothing to do with these foundations. On the other hand, it's the law you've made here, and it's what you'll have for that. It doesn't matter if someone's working on a line of tapes from Suzuki or any other car factory today, it doesn't matter whether they're working in fields, which is why it's our patriotic duty to speak out for them. And if you're only making laws for 1000-1500 people, then you're committing the same crime as when you've made this 400-hour overtime possible for companies. We are not slaves, but free European Hungarians. And you represent the total opposite of that. There's three of the entire Fidesz fraction, and you're gonna take the fall for this. I hope that all the comments that are made will reach the public, although there is no television broadcast, this House cannot afford to do so, unlike all the guards. President László Kövér is unable to resolve the fact that at least those people who spend HUF 90 billion in public television can face what legislation you have tabled today. Well, Mr Secretary of State, honourable House, this bill will be withdrawn with the slave law, then they will do the best for Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2019-02-20-100	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, lead speaker of the LMP. Here you go.
u2019-02-20-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It is a shame that the Hungarian government brings such a bill to the Parliament's table. If we look at the bill, it is not the details of the bill that are interesting, but the purpose of the bill. If we look at it, it is clear that this bill has a dual purpose; one of its aims is to put the rich in an even more favourable position, the wealthy, and the other is to manage certain institutions performing public tasks, and, where you know, to put your hands on their assets. With this bill, the government clearly proves that it is a party of the rich. The Hungarian government does not care at all about the interests of the Hungarian people, it does not care at all that Hungarian society is breaking up, it does not care at all that many people live around the poverty threshold, and there is practically a problem with their daily eating. In this respect, it is worth looking at how society is breaking up and what the government has not done for the benefit of ordinary people and for better living conditions. [[14.50]] I would like to remind you that the government lied, for example, when it said that people sided with banks. He lied because he did not solve, for example, the problem of foreign exchange lenders, and he simply looks at thousands of people and families being evicted with callousness. But the government also lied when it talked about supporting small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary against multinational companies. It gives multinational companies almost everything. Remember that you made the multi-key profit tax one-key and took out 170 billion forints from the budget at the time. But we also see that when he made personal income tax one-key, he contributed to the further fragmentation of Hungarian society. At the time when the government introduced the single-key personal income tax, it practically did that it put 500 billion forints in the pockets of high-income earners and took more than 130 billion forints out of the pockets of the lower incomers. So they all show that the government really only cares about the moonyard and the already rich people. But when we look at the government's family policy, we also see that it favours more affluent families with higher incomes. It is also a fact that a large number of social groups are left on the side of the road by the government, while it says that it will bring in a bill that will make up for a shortage, they have asked for it and must therefore be fulfilled. But you don't have to do it when it comes to 28 500 HUF minimum pension in Hungary, that you can't start anything from it. Something needs to be done. Or when they're in need of a home care fee, the government doesn't hear them. And now this law, the bill before us, what is it really about? On the one hand, we see that foundational wealth management is one of the popular tax avoidance tricks of the rich elsewhere in the world. It's a fact. So if we look at it, it's sure to help these groups make the rich even richer. They offer many benefits to those who can take advantage of it. According to this proposal, 600 million forints or equivalent property must be placed in Hungary. And we also see that taxation will be more favourable in this regard. How do you bring in such a bill when you don't see in it what kind of taxation you're going to get? I'm asking. It would be very good if, at the end of the day, I think, Mr Secretary of State would not take part in the debate to answer what kind of taxation will be attached to this, when they intend to bring it in, when we will see it. That doesn't tell us. They do not say a single word about how much, how much more favourable this form of foundation puts the assets in Hungary. When we talk about this tax, there is also a budgetary aspect. Will this form of foundation, which will bring in wealth, which will bring additional wealth and additional benefits to some people at a reduced rate, cut the budget by what? But there are also critics of the international tax system, and they believe that, in addition to tax havens, this institution is perhaps the most important contribution to the extreme growth of financial inequalities in the world. And let me give you the example that a few years ago there were 128 people in the world whose wealth was so large that it was equivalent to the wealth of 3.5 billion people in the world. Now it's only a few tens. And precisely because of such regulations, because governments are simply insensitive to the problems of poor people and people, they always look at how to put the rich in an even better position, and so do you. You don't care at all about how people live on a weekday, how people freeze in the winter because they don't have a firefighter. That's why I say it's a shame to bring such a law before the National Assembly. To sum up, you are in fact creating a form of foundation that people who have been rich most of the time can take their money into a foundation to make more money and more money. But, of course, there is another way to put it, it has been said today that, in fact, yes, they can take their money to a foundation, so they can escape their assets in some way. According to the LMP, this is not the path to be followed. Governments should take people's side instead of multinational companies and the rich, and this should be done in Hungary. There are a lot of poor, needy people to help, not the rich, like you do. And then I would like to say a few words about another side of the bill. Yes, there is another dark side to this bill, and this is about you embedding another fidesz series of destructions and thefts, and the focus this time is higher education and science. We already know that the government does not think much about the multitude of educated people in Hungary, and the aim in recent years has been to serve the Hungarian assembly lines of multinational companies. The main aspect was not to increase added value in Hungary, and knowledge was not the priority. You have gradually reduced the number of higher education participants in the last nine years, we have seen this in terms of the place of residence, majors and arms have been attacked, bled out, eliminated, and we have also witnessed the eradication of university autonomy. This is practically how the government's higher education policy can be described. In this we know that the persecution of CEU was another level. Well, they're packing now because they're gonna leave the country. The latest attack is the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, where we see that international fame, recognition, performance so far doesn't matter, you see first and foremost that there is wealth, there is money, there is buildings, and you want to put your hands on it. It is not understandable why they cannot respect the autonomy of an established institution that has been built over many decades. We fear that, although you promise to agree and agree with the Hungarian Academy of Sciences that this will end, that you will enforce your will, because, for example, we also see that the Trócsányi Attorneys' Office has now conducted the negotiations on behalf of the government; just as when they sided with the banks against foreign exchange credentials, it will happen now that they will not be on the side of Hungarian science and not the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. What we see is that you see an enemy in scientists, in science, and you're working to make them impossible. I would like to ask you whether you have considered, in the case of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, that there is a research network, that there has been this levitation for a long time now, that what will happen to you, that you will lose the operating conditions, that people who work there are the actors of science who have projects, how they will experience it. Do they consider what they think of their present, their future? They see everywhere that you think one thing, you're fired from one moment to the next. They don't say anything that pleases you, they'll change their situation. We are asking you to stop desecrating this science, and overall, I think you would do the right thing if this outrageous bill were to be withdrawn. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-02-20-102	Thank you very much. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Dear Parliament, It would be possible to make two-minute speeches, but no one has applied for them. Thus, the speeches of Members seeking a normal word are followed; first, Member György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, notary of the Parliament. Here you go. [[15.00]]
u2019-02-20-103	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Over the past eight years, we've gotten used to the fact that you're very strong in communication, always saying something, trying to say something nice, and your actions don't cover your words, so you're making a false statement. However, it occurred to me that just two days ago, when the opposition refused to assist in your propaganda day and left the room, your spokesperson, Mr Fisherman, stood up and said that anyone who was not in the room at work would return his salary. If I look around here now, then Mr. Secretary of State in the Velvet chair represents the government, so Fidesz is represented by only one person in the benches, István Bajkai, the others are not here. I suppose Mr. Fisherman will also call on them to return their wages. By the way, this may even be symbolic, that István Bajkai is the only Fidesz representative who is here, because he is Viktor Orbán's lawyer, and this bill, which is now before us, clearly serves the interests of Viktor Orbán and the interests of his family. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Is this the item on the agenda?]] So it is clear that your lawyer is present in such a situation and here in Parliament represents the interests of the Orbán family. Since 2010, we have witnessed a precise, pin-point economic machine in the country, and I could say that we could even pay tribute to this brilliant implementation, if this economic plan that you have implemented was not about the country's destruction, the absorption of the various economic sectors, and that is not what you would do. Unfortunately, this is the purpose of your great economic plan: to ensure Fidesz's hunger for power through the rule of the Hungarian economy. So I think it's safe to call this economic free robbery economic banditism. This is the economic banditism that you are carrying out, as the family members, mates and stromanes belonging to Fidesz, Viktor Orbán now dominate the major Hungarian economic sectors. We can talk about agriculture, trade, tourism, energy, construction, everything, all of you, your buddies and your stooges. That is why, since there has been a free robbery in this country for eight years now, an immense accumulation of wealth has developed around Viktor Orbán, his friends and their families, and we have come to this law, because something must now be done with this immeasurable wealth, because it is increasingly difficult to move these assets, it is increasingly difficult to manage these assets, and it is increasingly difficult to make it disappear if there is a brave investigative journalist or anyone else who would follow these things. A sound, stable, predictable and modern regulatory environment is needed for the predictable functioning of economic life, for the transparency of economic operators' activities and for the protection of private property. As a result of long preventive work, Parliament adopted the new Civil Code, Act V of 2013. This law is intended to regulate and guarantee the fundamental property rights and obligations of individual legal and natural persons. In this law, foundations are clearly separated from companies which are specifically engaged in economic and business activities, from companies. The historical, logical and dogmatic reasons for this are discussed in detail both by the justification of the law and by the law. If we assume that the former legislators have done a good job of doing so and that the foundations and companies have been properly separated in the Civil Code, then the question arises why a new law should create legal frameworks for the establishment of a foundation that is also capable of carrying out economic activities. The framework for professional asset management is also currently provided in the existing civil code. This is the purpose of the legal institution for trust management. What is the need for parallel regulation to perform the same function? There's no need for that. But we'll find out later that there is, because within the current framework, they couldn't carry out the activities they're going to do. Knowing the practice of the past years, this atypical legislative solution is not based on the intention of serving the public interest, meeting real social regulatory needs, but rather on the personal need of NER knights to hide their wealth from curious eyes. The real purpose of the bill before us is to hide the illegible wealth that has been grated. In addition to concealing the identity of the real owners of these assets, the Trust Foundations' system creates an opaque, complicated net where public money loses its public money character. You guys really like that, don't you? The founder or family member of the owner may also be the personal beneficiary of the foundation, and from now on because they will accept it, we have no legal doubt about it. So you're going to refer to the fact that you're acting completely legitimately in these matters. Consider an example of the situation with the entry into force of the bill. For example, it may be that Lőrinc Mészáros or one of his companies, or several of his companies together, or even, let's say, István Tiborcz joins in, let's say, Elios Zrt. With 13 000 million forints that do not need to be repaid to the EU now, or perhaps if István Bajkai is already sitting here, he may join his own SBGK law firm, with the 4.8 billion forints that the EU will not have to repay, because the Hungarian taxpayers will pay for it. We remember that you were supposed to check public procurement through the law firm, and then you found irregularities here, and you didn't want that back from the EU. So there will be plenty of money here, because if you just take these two next to the Mészáros fortune, then we are going to say that out of 18 000 million forints of the 600 million that you will have to put into foundation for a foundation, you can put it in with a calm heart, and then, let's say, you will jointly set up a foundation, say, for the better existence of the Orbán family, the foundation, the purpose of which, as set out in its founding document, is to provide assets for the beneficiary family. And it's almost legal. At that moment, the poorest Prime Minister, who barely has any savings, will legally, legally, have immeasurable wealth, because all the stooges, all the friends, all the buddies and everyone will surrender the shark to this foundation, and it will be legal at that moment. Thus, the property is not owned by the beneficiaries in name, but its income and benefits increase them in full legal and regular terms. The Trust Foundation may also set up companies. Thus, in the future, Viktor Orbán will no longer have to turn to his son-in-law in order to start the subsidised public lighting tenders, and the company will do so, which the trust fund will specifically, let us say, set up for this purpose. There will be no formal ownership relationship between the beneficiaries and the foundations and the companies of the foundation. If you think about whether the trust funds or the companies they set up can carry out activities anywhere in the world, so you can undertake, invest, buy real estate or property, it becomes clear that the optimal asset recovery and asset disposal tool will be created through these trust foundations. In the future, neither private aircraft nor luxury yachts should be registered in another's name. They will be legally owned by the Trust Foundation, which, in accordance with its declared objectives, maintains and operates them for the beneficiary persons, i.e., if appropriate, the Foundation for a better existence of the Orbán family. So the Orbán family will be better off, let's say, that private plane or that yacht, which is now legally owned by the foundation, and no one can say a word, it's completely legal. The real reason for the bill is, therefore, that Fidesz has run out of stromanes, that there are no reliable neighbors, former college roommates, familiar gas mechanics, and that every NER member has only one, so the number of reliable persons is limited. This tense problem is solved by the bill before us, which, unfortunately, would legitimize the system of institutionalised strómandomutyik in practice, and which is intended to launder the stolen money that you stole from Hungarian taxpayers at the expense of the NER system, along with the NER horsemen, and the Hungarian people, and try to enjoy this stolen money calmly and legally in the period when you will no longer be in power. [[15.10]] I can only promise you, believe me, that the people who are coming after you will do everything in their power to get you accounted for, and that you will not be able to make these money disappear and enjoy the rest of your lives in peace. Thank you for listening.
u2019-02-20-104	Thank you very much. The next speaker was Mr Szabó Szabolcs, an independent Member. Here you go.
u2019-02-20-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The case of these trust funds has already been discussed yesterday in connection with the restructuring of Corvinus University. I have already pointed out that it might have been appropriate to negotiate this at the same time, because it is possible to interpret the conversion of Corvinus very well, while I understand that there is an extra point here, that this proposal will also allow family trust foundations to be created, so let's discuss it here! Some things need to be clarified at the beginning. On the one hand, it is a very interesting thing to refer to what the author refers to as why this is necessary. We have also heard from the author: the reason is that there are countless Hungarian businesses whose owners or owners have reached a time when the issue of succession must be taken care of in some way. In itself, that would be an acceptable reason. Let's just think that, if I remember correctly, the company law was adopted in 1988, and social enterprises started to be established in Hungary. The middle-aged people who created this were obviously in the last 10 years of age to think about it. So this could be an argument in itself, only if a little person knows this area, whether just as interested as I do, then he knows precisely that over the past decade in such financial consulting companies it has become almost a separate industry, with a slight exaggeration, to try to suggest something to these owners, how to solve the problem, that if he is afraid that the heirs, if there are several heirs, are disintegrating property, and in some cases it can cause a break in the company's development, which is an example, and something like that. So it's not legal for this to happen in succession, but it could happen. We know such a negative example. But I'm telling you, in a way, it's not a new problem. This has been there for many years. That's what some consulting companies specialize in. In addition, you have redesigned or created the new Ptk. by adding elements that are suitable for this: this trust management, which is also mentioned in the statement's explanatory statement; plus, if I remember correctly, it was refined once in 2017 so that it was even easier to manage trust assets. If I understand what you are saying to me, experts with experience in such matters, relatively few have used this in Hungary so far, because they were a little afraid of trusting that certain trustee. I don't think we're gonna be any closer if we put this in a foundation, because curators have to be appointed there, and it's kind of a trust relationship. But I'll come back to that later. Where's the trust fund's idea coming from? We have also heard this from the rapporteur's side. This is mainly common in German, and there are not a small number of such trust foundations. I've looked into the experiences, what they write, what they say about the operational practices of trust funds in these countries. There are relatively many criticisms to read. There are two main directions to criticism. On the one hand, the foundations that operate there are said to be a bit complex in the regulatory system, and the decision-making mechanism is therefore slower, much slower than in the case of a normal social enterprise, so it may not always be a good solution. So I'm sure it won't be a miracle if these assets are transferred to a foundation. On the other hand, it is a relatively common criticism, and it is not an invention of eccentric people, which Erzsébet Schmuck has already brought up in the foregoing, namely that it is a bit euphemism to say that it is used as a tax optimization tool, let us say that they like to use such foundations in tax avoidance tricks. A lot of people and I'm telling you, I'm not talking about one or two people being treated for the presence of these foundations as offshore companies. And it is clearly said that, when we get there, and we have actually reached, to a large extent, that offshore companies within the European Union have been reduced, this should probably be the next thing we need to do. Because indeed, the inequalities within society that Congresswoman Schmuck referred to can only increase such solutions. It's a common criticism of such trust funds. There is one very important factor yet. We really don't know what kind of tax-regulation environment the trust fund will have in the future, because it's not going to come up now. Probably in the summer, and then when the budget bill comes in, and in connection with it, they're gonna file an amendment to the tax laws, that's where we're gonna find out if they're planning something or not. Then we could interpret this proposal in an economic sense. I would be pleased if the rapporteur would say something about such an additional tax relief for these foundations or not. I'm not asking you to plan now or what, will you or won't you? 'Cause we'll be able to trace it back to you later to tell you the truth or not. I think it would be important to clarify this now, because I say that it is basically used as a tax optimization tool in Western Europe, and it is used largely for it. And then there is another very important point to be highlighted, which has already been mentioned by several people: the exercise of founding rights is yet another interesting question. It gives the opportunity to submit or to give if it is voted, although I have no doubt that the pro-government majority will vote in favour of this, so that the owner will waive the exercise of the founding rights, and then the board will exercise the founding rights. This is a very interesting solution from a point of view that, although the founder does not have much power, he is almost exhausted in the appointment of the members of the board, it is not even as simple to withdraw it, but the appointment will actually remain, and if he hands it over to the board, then a narrow circle will be created, who will actually take care of everything himself. On the outside, of course, this asset controller, which we've talked about here and it's in the material, can check it, but in fact, his authority will be absolutely nothing in the decision-making process. Of course, if it's irregular or illegal, you can say that, and it has legal consequences. But in fact, in terms of the direction of the decisions, there will be absolutely no influence on the outside. In the case of Corvinus, this rule will be used immediately, which will not be established under the heading of the Family Trust Foundation, but at the Trust Fund in the public interest. But obviously, they will also create this in the family, because it will create a narrow decision-making power that will in no way be possible to intervene later on from the outside. You can't even put Plusman in there. And there is obviously a legitimate fear in man that, indeed, these interestingly-built, collected family fortunes will be placed in such a protected shell, and it will be very difficult to touch it after a change of government, let's be honest. [[15.20]] So, in front of my eyes, when I saw the bill, there was a picture of the family trust fund of the Ripper, and I'm pretty sure that the Ripper will be among the first to be created, so don't give me the God, the Tiborcz family foundation. Another element of this proposal is this certain trust fund of public interest, on which we discussed the establishment of the Corvinus Foundation yesterday in the general debate. But to bring in a new topic, the government itself communicates that it intends to reorganize the MTA and its research network to such a trust fund. Although Mr Palkovic spoke of something else a week and a half ago, let us put this in parentheses, and I am not sure that he will say so in a week and a half. That's what you're saying right now, and the professors had Batthyány Circle send you this message. But we'll see. But since you just said that, I think I have a right to say that there is a very big problem with this whole conversion system. In the beginning, I would like to pay tribute to my colleagues in the research institutes of the Academy, to those who work in my field, and to those who do not stand up enthusiastically, honestly, professionally, research and scientist for the freedom of science and research, for the freedom of an almost 200-year-old Academy. And I find it outrageous that Minister Palkovic simply and simply brands them as serialists, only because they stand up as scientists for the freedom of science. In Hungarian scientific public life, this style has not been characteristic since the system change, but since the 1960s. By the way, after such an attitude and such a statement in a civilized, normal country, the minister is politely asked to resign, who, for medical reasons, resigns at a time when he does not, is fired. Thus it is not customary to speak to scientists, especially as they are colleagues, because Mr Palkovic is also a scientist with a scientific degree. In particular, there was no meaningful argument from the government as to why, for example, the institution network of the Academy of Sciences should be reorganized under the supervision of such a public-interest trust fund. There was no professional argument, what was said was all bullshit. It's not a professional argument that I want to marry her, share a good day, and I'll do it because I can. That's not a professional argument. And if you don't believe me, ask József Pálinkás, who is not only the former president of the MTA, but also your former Minister of Education or former head of the NKFIH, who has made it quite clear that this is all from the style and tone of Mr Palkovics's speech to the extent of the insanity that the solution is to move him to such a foundation, how bad it is. He'll make it clear. You dare tell him he's a serialist, and then I'll see what happens. By the way, I see that they're running against the wall in the case of MTA, but believe me, the wall will be stronger in the end. Because science cannot be directed to party orders. That's not how science and research work. There was a time when some people thought that, but it didn't work. In a way, science isn't car repair, it's a completely different category. On the other hand, in connection with the destruction of the assets of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, asked the members of the Government to give an international example where such an example is to be achieved. That's a fair question, by the way. My fellow members of the Government will obviously not stand up and tell me, but I will tell you that Russia is a good international example. It's called the Federal Agency of Scientific Organizations, established in 2013 by Comrade Putin, appointed the Deputy Minister of Finance at that time, a man named Mikhail Kutyukov, who had destroyed the assets of the Russian Academy, which was about $2 billion at that time. By the way, he's been a good man ever since he wasn't the Minister of Research and Higher Education of the Russian Federation. So even the ministerial position is very similar to what Mr Palkovics is holding. So there's an international example, one thing I know for sure, that's the Russian example. Congratulations on the success of the putini example, not for the first time in Hungary. Overall, I can say that I cannot, of course, support the presentation in this form. I have tabled an amendment. At least we're going to highlight this family trust fund thing, and we're going to talk about who it can be applied to and under what circumstances, but I wouldn't really support this kind of tax avoidance trick on my part. It should be treated just like offshore companies, I'll say it again. They must be repressed and not disseminated in Europe. Thank you very much.
u2019-02-20-106	Thank you very much. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, is the next speaker. Here.
u2019-02-20-107	Mr President, Dear House, Our fellow government representatives have asked us to avoid, or at least hold back, the term "refunding" in connection with this bill. At the same time, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, according to your regulations, the new trust fund can set a purpose in its articles of association, and I would stress that it is providing financial benefits to the beneficiaries indicated there. So it's not our onion fever dream, it's in your proposal here in black and white. You also concluded that at HUF 600 million the minimum amount of capital that you set up as a trust fund can be created, presumably a form of foundation that manages oligarch assets, the same way that MTA, the Academy of Sciences, intends to take away its assets. At the same time, it was not stated what they had in mind in relation to the fulfilment of the benefit. Do you want to pay someone an annual return on assets above HUF 600 million? Because their justification is that it is necessary to have a minimum capital of 600 million, because under such an amount of wealth it would hardly be possible to make an adequate return on the benefit of the beneficiaries. Then the fulfilment of the benefit, which can be stated in the articles of association, what does it refer to? You want to outsource the property? Is that the return you want to give to strangers, third parties? As long as they do not put order in their own conceptual magazine, allow the single opposition representative to at least express doubts. We have mentioned that if the oligarch's wealth, which is supposed to result from the skiing of public funds on public roads, is placed in such a foundation, it is assumed that it will be paid dividends after a period of time, then it will indeed lose its public money character. So what we see is that these assets will be much more difficult to return to the public in a fair review or procedure. We therefore need further answers to address this suspicion, since this suspicion has not been resolved, especially when we see in the context of the MTA that the government actually wants the MTA to voluntarily hand over its headquarters, all the relevant assets, to a new foundation whose organisational framework is now being debated by Parliament. This 9th year is the usual pace for the signing of blank cheques to be incredibly counterproductive, by the way, especially for the government. I think they will find less and less people in the market or in cultural life who can be considered professional partners, because we give them the respect of inviting them to the same table, drinking coffee, communicating, talking, trying to find the bottlenecks where we see the world the same way, or at least part of it. Not only is communication excluded, but there is virtually a net dictatorship before these stakeholders, which is completely unacceptable to a normal Democrat. But once again, this is counterproductive for the current government, because after a few years, they will simply not find partners. Believe me, the volatile, elusive support that is behind you now as a result of an over-fat communication campaign disappears so quickly that you wouldn't even think about it, and then there will be the Hungarian reality, there will remain the problems to be solved, and there will be the amazing lack of us here in Parliament to set national minimums, all parties together. Let us say that in order to restore the Hungarian demographic balance, we are not concerned that the national minimums have been formulated, but they are practically trying to work with dictatorships in a perfectly backward and completely counterproductive way. [[15.30]] Therefore, I would like you to focus on existing problems, to find answers and to communicate, to find national minimums instead of segregating cart camps. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-02-20-108	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2019-02-20-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to go back to the law on trust funds where I left off. It was very obvious in the speech by our fellow Member, András Aradszki, that we are Christian democrats, because he said with infinite goodwill that, please, it would be nice to include that if these foundations were to be liquidated, a certain circle of persons should not buy from the property. I very much liked this infinite speech of good faith and goodwill, because you can imagine that these foundations will never be liquidated in life, because they will integrate so much wealth into these foundations, they will manage so much wealth that there will always be a source of money that if someone has any debt, they can pay it off. They said in the speech, and several of my fellow Members responded that it was a generational change. No, please, it's not a generation change here, it's just a capital change here. It was replaced by the bottom-up, nice, systematic building of companies based on hyenas' corporate activities. And these hyenas, with the activities of the company's contractor, have combined the amount and quality of wealth that must be put into a system for the reasons stated in my previous speech. The fact that there is some sort of demand here is a very narrow demand, and as I said in my first speech, I am sure that you, who are here, some of our fellow Members with Fidesz and KDNP, are not involved. They are forced to represent something that I stress in a legal sense, in the sense of the rule of law, in civil law, leaves nothing wrong with it. Don't get me wrong, there are many countries with such institutions. This House is not a problem, it is a problem with its timeliness, and there is a problem with the staff that you have said you have claimed. You can probably hear them sitting in a car listening to radios, saying that Brussels wants a mandatory resettlement quota 4-5 times an hour in pro-government and public service radios. When I came to the House, the last voice of the radio was also advertising this advertisement, which ended with the fact that the advertisement was ordered by the Government of Hungary. You keep Hungarian people in fear through every ether source. Unfortunately, the secretary of state sitting here is also part of the Government of Hungary. Now they imagine that you are still bombing poor, miserable, poor people through the waves of radio and television with this lie in Brussels, trying to eliminate their emotions completely, just to be dominated by fear! ? And what they won't tell you in the next newscast is that, by the way, right now in the Parliament of Hungary, I would like to pass a property law, and I would like to pass a foundation law that will make it even more convenient for the rich to manage their wealth! Now, you're not gonna like to announce this as the next newscast, and I'm just gonna let you know. And in residential forums, when they were candidates, the simple, 40-50 thousand forints, retired people came and told them that you had to be elected because you were the only ones who could protect them from the migrants. The mayors at the end, the bitches, they went to poor, unfortunate, 80-year-old women who lived the Second World War, lived the evacuation of the Rákosi system, lived the attic sweeps, lived the 56th, lived the nationalization, these people say the mayor, Aunt Juli, how many rooms do you have? . Say, "Well, honey, you know my house, three." Yes, Aunt Juli, three? Well, if he doesn't put the Ix on April 8th next to Fidesz, then two of his rooms will be for the migrants. 'Cause a lot of poor, poor, old people gave their votes to that. And when your bitches told people there, and through the radio waves, through the television broadcasts, these fear-fearing ads were constantly pushed into people's ears, interestingly, it wasn't for you to vote for me anyway, dear, simple citizen, because when I'm a governing party again after 8 April, I'm going to bring you a slave law, then I'm going to create a government court, and the most important problem for me is that the rich can save their wealth for the next generation, and that there will be no inheritance problems and fragmentation problems. Consider the material and existential structure of Hungarian society. Well, he steps out on the border of Budapest, and in 20 kilometers, he sees such poverty that one's heart is broken. And these people did not vote to help the rich here with the help of the Members, and they can optimize their taxes even better, but to work with every nerve to increase the standard of living of the population of Hungary. Well, at the moment, these assets have not been able to increase, and it seems that they are even more concentrated with this institution in such a way that nothing is broken down by chance, and even the state budget is not very much visiting these wealth. So, what we're talking about here is, who's got what needs now? Well, think about it. By the way, let me tell you: In 2018, the hundred richest Hungarians gained 23 percent of their wealth over a year. Is this a welfare state? Is this a social market economy? Is that what you promised people in '90? Let's see how much people's average wage has risen, because there's a good chance it's not 23 percent. And the poor man who is forced to open an account, even the pensioner, because the postman doesn't want to take out his pension, has to pay even to the bank, and he pays for his money in the bank, so the simple society doesn't get any interest on his small pennies, but the top hundred have a 23 percent increase in the wealth! Amazing! And then this House, this Parliament, is meant to have even more favourable conditions for these? ! Now, don't be angry. Who cares? ! I don't give a damn how rich people don't cut their fortunes. By the way, I'm telling you, this economy is not dynamic in any way, because it has not yet been possible to obtain extra profit from the stolen property, incompetence. Let me tell you one more thing. They brought in foreign examples of where they were. Yes, there were, there are, but it should not be forgotten that in those countries, through the development of capitalism, those huge wealth, family fortunes were created so that there was a small sac shop at first, there was a small shop at first, there was a small workshop at first, and then after many decades or centuries of hard work created wealth into these foundations. I'm telling you, the Rothschild family took 140 years of work to make the first foundation like this. The Krupp family founded its first foundation in Germany after 350 years of wealth accumulation. Or the Tata family became the first foundation in India after 120 years, 120 years of wealth. [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] 120 years for the Rockefeller family. The shortest time in the history of rich families in Western Europe was for the Walton family to set up the first foundation: it took 30 years. So, I would just like to say that, for the sake of those who have this legislation, it has served the assets of the last eight years of budget looting and draining EU funds, and it is in no way possible to compare how these foundations or these foundations have been created in Western Europe or in more developed parts of the world. [[György Szilágyi: That's right!]] [[15.40]] There, hardworking people worked for decades, centuries, put one penny on another, and it wasn't like he was going to send the bag people, the hyenas, to the companies that were created by our countrymen with hard work, and they were taking them away with threats or because they didn't get public procurement, so when they're worth pennies, Lőrinc Mészáros buys them up, who doesn't even know what kind of company he's buying. So the problem in Hungary is that economic life is morally at such a terrible level that in this country only this proposal cannot be dealt with legally. Legally, there's nothing wrong with it, there's nothing wrong with it, but bringing it here in this country is simply incredibly false. Let me just say this because my fellow Member, András Aradszki, said that the foundation will not own that property: my fellow Member, this is not excluded by the legislation. Yeah, maybe it's not his, he's just managing it, but it's safe to have it, he's handing it over to his trust fund. At the moment that the share capital will be part of the entire wealth we're talking about, the foundation will own the property. He doesn't rule it out, nothing rules it out. But it was so funny when I read this 600 million, because I'm sure you can see that we need at least a five-member board, at least a three-member supervisory board and auditor. That's nine people. For a minimum of one million forints a person in Hungary will certainly do such work, because the secret that he must keep when he sees what wealth is involved is rewarded with a minimum of one million net per month. I calculated the amount of HUF 220 million in a year, only the fees and contributions of the management. Those who have 600 million forints are two Buda villas, so it's not worth doing that. So what a deceitful thing it is: it defines the minimum capital for such a 600 million, which is the sky for a simple person, a whole village doesn't make 600 million a lifetime, but if we look at the income levels of those working in these activities, I apologize for it, but for whom management alone will cost at least 200 million a year, it certainly won't create such a trust fund for its 600 million-dollar assets. This is about the billions of dollars of wealth, the wealth that Hungarians will never see in life. Let me tell you something else. In January 2016, three years ago, there were 238 permanently unfilled GP practices; in January 2019, 422. I would like to suggest to you that families who are going to create these foundations not to save their assets, but to hide this good word really, is hiding the good word, so that they can donate to the Hungarian state budget so that we can lure our doctors home from abroad so that we can complete all these empty GP practices, because I think it is a little more of a problem for a government if in two years we have managed to increase the number of unfilled GP practices by 200, rather than that we are dealing with the wealth of the rich in this House. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-02-20-110	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I'll ask the author, Mr. Secretary of State, if you'd like to reflect. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2019-02-20-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, thank you for the contributions of my fellow Members who spoke on the subject; half of Szabolcs Szabó's contribution, although he contested the proposal, but I think he was bound to it objectively. I would not go into the parts concerning the MTA, since this, I see, is being conducted separately with Minister, I would not want to cross other waters. What concerns the essence and the comments have been made: indeed, we are not talking about saving property, we are talking about ordering a fortune under the foundation. Perhaps everyone could follow that there is indeed a public interest and a family branch of this type of foundational wealth management. On public interest, I think we don't have much to argue about, after the support of public goals, I think it's in all our interests. The part of the thing where they talked about the disappearance of state assets here and so on: we all know that state property is still subject to the State property law, so that the same parliamentary control is carried out in the provision of state wealth, which has been the case so far. I have also explained in the expoze that other legislation is, of course, also applicable to tax laws and other laws. The foundation itself only carries out trust activities, so the companies below it produce, so to speak, wealth, profits, this applies to it in the same way, regardless of the extent of this. Although I do not want to mention my fellow Member Erzsébet Schmuck's list of tax systems, we are well aware that, for the first time in 2010, the 9 per cent tax was paid for small and medium-sized enterprises, and that the tax system has delivered 800,000 new jobs to 15 per cent, and we also know that most of the employees need not pay this part through family taxation, as even the two children have significant tax benefits, which also includes contributions. So the fact that only the rich would benefit from this kind of tax system, I would reject it myself. As regards the curatorial powers of the foundations, it has been said at the estate inspector that he does not have actual licenses. We know that this is appointed by the founder, and later, let's say, if the founder is deceased and is not able to do so, then indeed the board has a role in it, but here, too, court control will continue to be carried out in the future, so the kind of self-portrait of the foundation that it would not be under any external control, this does not exist. We also know that the presence of the auditor is mandatory, which means a professional, specific supervision. The property inspector also has professional regulations on who can be property inspectors, which also ensures the kind of legality that is required for these foundations. In summary, international examples were also discussed. Indeed, the most common German language area. Thank you very much for Andrea Varga-Damm's sentence where she said that the proposal is legal, so this is a framework, and the foundation of foundations will actually fill this up. I know you also said, Congresswoman, that you don't think it's timely, so I'll add the other part of the sentence so that I don't quote inaccurately. But in itself, I think that there seems to be no objection to the codificatorial work, otherwise there was no debate within the profession about the wording of this. I would not comment on unfortunate terms and give no answer; in Bangóné's comment, which, let's say, qualified pro-government representatives, was said here how scientists speak to each other, I think Members should take this into account at times when they speak to each other; or mayors should be treated as bitches. So it would be good if we could really return to this field without the laws and the specific laws, the old manners, the etiquette, what is appropriate, what is not possible. I'm sorry I got to that part of you. Thank you very much. [[György Szilágyi: The Prime Minister used this word for the first time in this House. Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks. György Szilágyi: The Prime Minister said this word for the first time in this House.]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[György Szilágyi: To be included in the minutes: Prime Minister Viktor Orbán...]]
u2019-02-20-112	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Not the mayors.]] It is worth listening to the opportunity to present the amendments on Thursday at 4 p.m., Honourable Parliament. We are now at the end of the discussion of our agendas today, honourable Members, and so the speeches after the agenda will follow. Mr Ander Balázs, representative of Jobbik, will be the first among them to make his speech: The government has failed! It's an address. Congressman Ander, please.
u2019-02-20-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, That's right, this government failed in vocational training. Amazing, amazing data is coming in. Even though Jobbik has been ringing the alarm for years about the high rate of early school leavers, this has reached an 11-year negative record in Hungary, and they can give examples from the government side by saying that there are European countries where they can boast with even worse indicators, so to speak, but if we look at our direct competitors, the V4 states, then the situation is that we find better indicators everywhere, even in Slovakia, the rate of early school dropouts is half as high as in Hungary. This is something that should no longer be addressed, because it is a shame and a shame that we are here in the middle of Europe in 2019, just as it is a shame and a shame and an inexplicable though we see enough attempts, let us say, on behalf of Secretary Retvári, to explain the inexplicable how 25 percent of young people can emerge from education by virtually functional illiterate. [[15.50]] These are the things that we should do so that this country can move away from the state of damnation that connects the domestic economy to the bottom of global value chains and hundreds of thousands of employees. It is quite clear that low education results in low added value and this will be coupled with a low salary, which will not lead to a European perspective and recovery, even if the government visions it, I do not know in what delirium Hungary will become the fifth most livable country in Europe by 2030. This is not the case either, we see that it is not so, that whole regions, districts, rural regions are breaking down and disappearing in the social collapse that is truly unfolding in the eyes of those who dare to see and appreciate these grieving processes. The government has also acknowledged that there is a huge problem, as the new VET strategy for the Ministry of Innovation has clearly admitted that there is a problem, there is a huge problem. This strategic sector, which has been thrown between ministries in recent years, has been treated as a stepchild and has been sent to where we can see it is today. However, it is a strategic area, because if we do not think of anything else, let us say, only the increasingly urgent and pressing task of Roma integration, then we should also say that this issue should be addressed more responsibly by the current government. In the small areas affected by the Children's Chance Programme, the proportion of early school leavers is 28 percent. Hold on, everybody. Among Gypsy youths, this ratio is more than 50 percent. That is why I take the liberty of saying that certain areas and districts disappear as sinking Atlantis in the social collapse that is indeed here in front of us, and that it can be predicted if there is no meaningful progress. In such a way as the government has led it so far, in the form that, let us say, teachers and trainers working in the vocational training sector, the nation's day laborers are treated more as current servants of the government, there will be no unfolding. It would also be good to bear in mind the fact that, let us say, prison rehabilitation is a valuable thing, but it would be wiser for the current government to focus resources on where they should be in early childhood, since the army of economists proves that the development started at the earliest possible time is a multi-refundable investment for a forward-looking state and government. Jobbik will come up with this subject many more times, because there is a huge sense of social responsibility, which is here, we see it, we are very sorry that the government does not perceive it, we are very sorry that they have not taken any meaningful steps to do so. We, on the other hand, will rub the government's nose in bitter facts every day, every time we do that. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-02-20-114	Thank you very much. Mr. Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, will be followed:, For how long? It's an address. Here you go.
u2019-02-20-115	Mr President, Dear House, It is no coincidence that while my friend Ander Balázs is talking about the sinking Atlantis, I am talking about a demographic winter, as it is a welcome step forward that the Hungarian family support system is approaching its centre, the fall of the Hungarian tree, but unfortunately, the number of living births is constantly decreasing, as the fertility index has agreed, and has also started to deteriorate a bit. Looking at the countries in the region, we can see that birth numbers have stopped in each country called the former socialist. In Hungary, the Bokros package and other austerity packages have made this process even worse, and it can also be seen that since the method change, the average age of parenting has typically been extended by five years until the 2011 measurement, since there is a complete set of data available so far. We can also see that a general deferment process has started, so the children who wanted to have children began to come into the world more and more later. Fortunately, as of 2011, this delay process has slowed down in a measurable and meaningful way, but looking at the publication of the Demographic Portrait in 2018, we see that the family support system is good measures, whether or not supported by me or not, that unfortunately demographic indicators have not improved in substance or that there is a clear increase in childlessness, as the proportion of children who have first children has fallen from 92% to 84 percent at the turn of the millennium, and it follows that the percentage of childless people has risen from 8 per cent to 16 per cent. However, there is also a drop in the number of two children, since from 78 percent to 67 percent of those who have a second child after the first. These alarming numbers have not become a disaster so far, because the number of large families, their behaviour and their way of life have broadly stabilised, and they carry it, in quotes, on their backs, with this whole process fulfilling an amazing commitment. It is also necessary to see and see from this series that there is a clear increase in the proportion of people who stop after a child, so those who would have taken on additional children and children, but unfortunately, due to some external influence, they are not going to do so. Once again, fortunately, the intentions of the large families remained stable. At the same time, it is worth considering that if we withdraw those who are abroad from their birth numbers, although they have registered residence in Hungary, they may even be born here, we will get even worse numbers. Although demographic measurements typically correct data in two ways, live births of mothers living abroad are not taken into account, while births of mothers residing abroad, born in Hungary, are not taken into account. This equation, so as we get to the official statistics, is always positive, so we get slightly higher birth numbers, better data than they do in reality. The profession is based on births in the territory of Hungary. We also have to say that if we look at the Carpathian Basin outlook, that according to statistics, for example, in Transylvania, a total of 9071 Hungarian children were born in 2015. To compare this dramatic, shocking data with the fact that, of course, we want autonomy, of course, to ensure the fullest degree of self-determination for our Transylvanian brothers, it is necessary to have one more condition: to have the population 50-60-80 years from now, to whom we grant the rights, because their rights are typically in history to those who can back it up by force, existence, courage. Therefore, we will have a great deal of work to do, and we also need to see that this cannot be done in Hungary without national minimums. In addition to the well-intentioned measures, Viktor Orbán and Fidesz announced foamed ones, while at the same time restricting the housing segment exclusively to CSOK, only to own real estate, while for Hungarian young people, young Hungarians with emigration would have a public-based rental program that is missing not only from the seven points, but also from the thinking of Fidesz-KDNP at systemic level. The lack of a rental program will cost the lives of Hungarian children in such a way that they will not be born to children who want to be born, and they will be sent to Hungarian families in such a way that many of those who wish to thrive here will migrate. Therefore, we will also move every existing stone in the near future so that as many Hungarian young people as possible can find its calculation in Hungary, as this is the only way for Hungary to remain the Hungarians, so that a united, strong nation state can remain. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] which, by the way, was well over a thousand years ago. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-02-20-116	Thank you very much. Representative Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik follows with a title entitled "The Hungarian Bees, Beekeepers and the Insect World." Here you go. [[16.00]]
u2019-02-20-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! I intend to make a cry for help after this agenda, as the results of such devastating data and research are coming to light, I can now say that on a weekly basis from all over the world and from our narrower country, Europe and Hungary, which are certainly worth a few words between the walls of this House. In fact, the beekeepers in our country were shocked by two serious waves of bee mortality last year, but not just by domestic bees and not just beekeepers, since the European and domestic insect worlds generally decreased by 40 percent, if you look at the number of individuals in two decades. One third of the species are at risk, and that is to say, if we look at the eight times more rapid destruction of the insect world than mammals. Their total weight is reduced by 2.5 percent per year as regards biomass, so the numbers are alarming. Scientists then rightly say that it is probably in our lives and that the sixth great wave of extinction that has taken place on the planet Earth is still taking place. When it comes to bees and insects, it is worth bringing the human aspects here, that it is, however, beyond the prospect of preserving the diversity of our country and the world. The first answer, the pollination situation, is coming right up. Even if in a number of cultural plants the breeding direction is to rely as little on bees when pollinating as possible, we still consume a significant part of the food that is based on the work carried out by bees. But insects, for example, play an unimaginable role in nutrient circulation, just as in controlling pests. If nothing else, we think that in many cases these insects play a predator role. If you look at bees, obviously, among the human effects that you should highlight most, it is the effect of the various pesticides. Numerous researches and studies support the use of technologies and chemicals that are fatal to insects in the production of our own food. Various herbicides, insecticides and antiseptics have been proven in recent years that it is worth noting their use, even though there are also bee-friendly products and technologies. Special attention is needed here, since it does not matter whether the particular insect is poisoned by the substance, or it only later results in its action. Unfortunately, research has come to a very often tricky conclusion when it has only been investigated that, let's say, bees die from the use of that drug, and they no longer watched that in the long term, the drug results in, say, the death of bacteria in their intestinal flora that would be essential for their long-term survival and the maintenance of their immune system. So there is still a great deal of ground-breaking research needed here, so that we can narrow down as much as possible the circle that represents such fatal agents, and that we can limit their use as much as possible in time and space. Indeed, there is a need for assistance not only for insects and domestic bees, but also for beekeepers, and in this context I have addressed countless written and oral questions to the government in recent years, unfortunately there have not been many positive responses so far. However, Hungarian beekeepers don't want much, I just want to continue doing the work that could have made Hungarian honey, Hungarian acacia, for example, a hungaricum, and which was able to make the product known to half the world and, of course, to some extent, to our country. In terms of buying prices, it is worth saying that six out of the last eight years can be said that it is good for beekeepers to come to zero, but in many cases they were forced to close the year with losses. For example, they also asked the government for help in obtaining C+E's license, which is essential for their work. There was no satisfactory response to the multitude of honey counterfeiting scandals. When the Nebih examined a hundred honeys, he claimed that there was no problem with either, while Hungarian beekeepers joined forces, selected 19 honeys at random, sent out to international laboratories, and found fault in each of them. These are disproportionate and slippages that make us and beekeepers assume that the government will deliberately cover certain serious honey forgery or economic groups interested in the arrival of poor honey in Hungary. So we'd like to see some real progress in these, otherwise there's going to be a real problem. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-02-20-118	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. I would like to inform you that the Parliament will resume its meeting next week at 11 a.m. Meeting day's closed. Hello. Goodbye, everyone.
