u2019-11-25-0	[[Most of the people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 14th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and Bence Tordai will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to our guests and everyone who's watching our work. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In the twilight of the Second World War, Hungary's population experienced multiple traumas under the grip of two total and inhuman dictatorships. In these days, just 75 years ago, in the part of the country still under German occupation, the deadly danger of Nazi and Aryan hatred was on the part of the Jewish population, but during the same period the occupying Soviet troops also began to take away the captive Hungarian soldiers and the Hungarian, including the German-speaking, civilian population. The purpose of this was to fulfill the pre-arranged number of prisoners, ethnic cleansing, the total intimidation of the Hungarian population. Some were taken to replace the workers lost in the war for years of forced labour, or, as they were then called, a málenkij robot, a small job. However, some have been deprived of their most fundamental human and civil rights on the basis of fabricated charges, with the assistance of the Hungarian authorities, and have been sent to the prisons of the Gulag for decades. The number of prisoners taken exceeded 700,000, but it was estimated that it could have reached 900,000. They were worked in nearly a thousand camps, mines, construction sites, and kolhoz, from the Arctic Circle to the Black Sea. The number of people who were executed, those who died of hunger and disease, is estimated to be about 200,000. Many of them are still among the anonymous victims of communism. Collecting camps, málenkij robot, gulag, gupvi: words, acronyms and expressions that are synonymous with the crushing of human dignity, humiliation and torture for both the victims and their descendants. All these survivors have left an indelible impression, just as their family members have been in years of anxiety, fear, or grief. This tragedy has become not only the tragedy of the victims, but also the tragedy of the entire Hungarian nation, an unspeakable trauma that has been surrounded for decades by whispers of silence or small family whispers. Survivors returning from captivity in the built Communist dictatorship could not be compensated, neither peace of mind, for decades or even until their death, for further humiliation and intimidation. Only after the years of the change of regime has there been an opportunity to speak openly and honestly about all this. Our neighbor was a great communist, threatened to take me back if I dared to speak. Shut my mouth! I've always heard Robot, robot! Davaj, Davaj! I screamed at him at night. My husband got used to it, and then he reached across the bed, and he just said, "You're home." He remembered a victim who had been taken away as a girl because he was considered of German descent. Even though time heals, I've dreamed of taking you for years. It hurts especially that he was forbidden to talk about it for years. This is a very spiritual burden for me even to this day. In the '90s, another survivor told me. Dear Parliament, Remembering and honestly facing the traumas of our past are a priority for us present people. In order to replace forgetfulness, fears and silence with discernment and worthy commemoration, on 21 May 2012, the Parliament declared 25 November to be the Memorial Day of Hungarian political prisoners and forced workers who were taken to the Soviet Union. It is our responsibility that memory never ends. Our task is to preserve the future of our generation together, not forgetting the tragedies of our past, from any form of power arbitrage and terror that cripples human lives. I ask you to remember the victims with one minute's silence and grace. [[The people present pay tribute to the victims with a silent standing.]] Thank you. [[11.10]] Dear Parliament, We will continue our work with speeches before the agenda. Following today's speeches before the agenda, the questions will take place from 12:15 a.m. to 13:45 a.m. and then from approximately 13:45 a.m. to 14:45 a.m. to the hour of immediate questions and answers. Finally, we will conclude the session of the Parliament with speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, Mr Miklós Seszták, KDNP Group, applied for a pre-meeting address with the title of cross-border economic development. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-11-25-1	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In 2010 and 2014, national policy became systemic, the amount spent for this purpose is constantly increasing, and besides traditional national policy, the promotion of prosperity in the homeland also appeared. The Government of Hungary aims to strengthen its partnership with neighbouring countries, to deepen it on the basis of mutual benefits, and to define jointly eligible and feasible economic development programmes. Economic development in cross-border regions is good for the Hungarians living there, good for those belonging to the majority nation, and good for Hungary, whose economy can grow in both quantitative and geographical terms. Each HUF invested results in another HUF of economic growth in the affected area, while ensuring an increase in the GDP of the home country. In this spirit, economic development programmes for the survival of foreign parts of the nation were launched in 2016 in the Carpathian Basin, whose main objective is to promote the survival and local prosperity of foreign Hungarians, and its main condition is the creation of long-term foundations for economic development and job creation. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to provide you with some specific information. In 2016 and 2018, more than ten thousand applicants received funding from Vojvodina, which exceeded HUF 35 billion. With this, we created an investment worth nearly HUF 70 billion. These investments have created nearly 1,500 jobs, and as a result of the village house purchase tenders, 601 families have an opportunity to buy a house. In 2016 and 2018 in Transcarpathia, in agriculture, tourism, business development, land administration and land lease support, 23 907 of the applications received received a positive evaluation, with a total grant of HUF 13.5 billion. A total of HUF 18.2 billion of this support was developed in Transcarpathia. In Transylvania, in 2017-2018, more than a thousand proposals were decided positively in the categories of agricultural, land administration and business development aimed at supporting large investments combined with integration, worth more than HUF 27 billion. In 2017, 315 applicants received more than HUF 928 million in support under the Muravid Economic Development Programme. In 2017, 2018 in the Drávagong (Croatian) category of agricultural and business development applications, more than 300 applicants received funding worth HUF 900 million. The Highland Economic Development Programme was launched in the autumn of 2017, with a positive decision of HUF 5.4 billion in 2017 and 2018 in 1528 cases. The total value of the improvements made with this support was HUF 9.2 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, The above data demonstrate that in recent years the government has mobilised substantial funds to improve living conditions in cross-border communities and to promote prosperity in the homeland. Among the government's long-term plans, it remains crucial to support new investments and innovative developments in the Carpathian Basin. Through economic development programmes, it will be possible for the power of the mother country to be felt beyond the borders and to support national communities across borders effectively. The issue of our countrymen living across the border is a matter of national strategy, and the responsibility for them is not only voluntary, but also a duty enshrined in the Fundamental Law. I call on my fellow Members to continue to support the launch and implementation of cross-border economic development programmes. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-11-25-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Tamás Menczer, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-11-25-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you, and I am pleased that today in Parliament we can be the first to talk about Hungarians from abroad before the agenda. This is very important and very timely. I would like to stress first that Hungary today has a government that focuses on the interests of Hungary and which considers the interests of Hungary to be the most important and which is a government that is Hungarian-friendly. Of course, this is also true for Hungarians from abroad. It is important to emphasise this, Mr House and honourable Member, because, unfortunately, we have seen in recent times that, by the way, the Hungarian opposition, the opposition outside Parliament, and the opposition outside Parliament are anti-Hungarian. [[Uproar, interruptions from the opposition side, including Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Oh! Oh, come on.]] Relax, honourable opposition representatives. Why do I say that? [[Constant intervention from the opposition side.]] Because it has been more than two weeks now, Honourable House, that the politicians of Momentum campaigned against the Hungarian candidate in Romania and Slovakia. This is true, it is a matter of fact, even if opposition politicians do not want to remember this. So the Hungarian candidate has been campaigned against by the MEPs, your allies, and in the past two weeks no opposition party has stood up, and he has not said that it is separate from the Momentum, nor has any opposition party said that in the future it will never cooperate with such anti-Hungarian forces as Momentum. [[Constant intervention from the opposition side.]] As long as you, honourable opposition politicians, do not do so, we must consider you an anti-Hungarian politician. I'm not happy about this, but this is the situation. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai:]] I would also like to draw attention to the fact that those working across the border against Hungarians are working against Hungarians from here too. I'd also like to put that to your attention. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, You spoke exhaustively about the data of the cross-border economic development programme. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] Overall, I would like to say a few words: between 2016 and 19 we were able to register 44 882 winning applications, with 121.9 billion HUF support for these applications. Overall, the value of investments is more than HUF 228 billion, i.e. more than HUF 228 billion with HUF 121 billion support. At present, 13 415 applications, worth more than 35 billion HUF, are under review. I completely agree with you, it's a win-win, even a win-win-win situation, if you can put it that way. This is good for the Hungarians abroad, they say this many times, so their economic reinforcement is extremely important, of course it is in line with our intentions, so we are happy about this, and it is good for the neighbouring country, because there are jobs there, and these employers and businesses pay taxes there. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, After you have told me much about the details, allow me to draw attention to a few things about nationality policy without the need for completeness. [[11.20]] The Hungarian government also regards the Hungarian community across the border and, by the way, the national communities that live here as resources. So we see these communities as a resource that connects two countries, not separates them, and we try to do everything we can to make the leaders of neighbouring countries think the same way. Overall, the situation of Hungarians from abroad is much better than it was five years ago, but there is no doubt that there are many tasks ahead of us. With regard to Serbia, I can say that taking into account the EU's neighbours, the way they treat minorities, national communities is exemplary. Here I would like to draw attention to two facts. After the last parliamentary election, the Hungarian party was not justified in numbers in the coalition, but it took place, and after the provincial parliamentary election in Vojvodina there were not enough votes to become Hungarian president, but this was done with the support of the governing party. As far as Ukraine is concerned, the situation is known to you. All I would like to point out here is that the new President is a new hope, and we continue to think so, but the situation has not improved. We hope that a meeting at the highest level will be held as soon as possible, and this could improve the situation. With regard to Slovakia, I would point out that there is excellent cooperation on practical matters and that political cooperation is also excellent. This also has positive benefits for the minority situation in relation to the posting of bilingual tables, in relation to the budget of small schools, but there is still work to be done. And in the case of Romania, hopefully, if political stability comes and there is political stability, then we can also move forward on minority issues. Thank you again for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-25-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Ms Zita Gurmai, MSZP Group, spoke with the title "Belarus and after the meeting." You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2019-11-25-5	Thank you very much. Mr President, Fellow Members! I need you to take a deep breath while you can. Some shocking facts: a month ago, the National Centre for Public Health warned the 17 settlements of the country that there was a problem and announced that children, elderly people and people with respiratory diseases should avoid intensive physical activity in the open. These 17 settlements are Putnok, Budapest, Dorog, Dunaújváros, Eger, Esztergom, Miskolc, Kazincbarcika, Kecskemét, Nyíregyháza, Sajószentpéter, Salgótarján, Szolnok, Tatabánya, Tököl, Vác and Várpalota. Almost a third of the country, but the majority of the population were drowning in those days. Any government action outside the reports? No. And it's a matter of responsibility. They say that because the problem is global, the greatest responsibility lies with those countries that can best reduce pollution, i.e. those with the most advanced economies and the most productive countries. What can Hungary do for this reason? Many people ask, because according to its population number, according to both the 92nd and the GDP generated, it is only the 57th country in the world. Well, I think a lot, just because of the responsibility. Air pollution is not a natural phenomenon here, it is not a volcanic activity, and it is not because the number of foggy hours in Hungary would be extremely high. No! The drasticly high level of air pollution is caused by man here, and we are all responsible for that. However, the responsibility of politics is always greater than that of citizens. So the government's responsibility is greater than that of politicians in general, and in Hungary in particular. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, Fidesz not only poisons the political climate in Hungary but also the air. Let's look at the numbers of the Environmental Performance Index: Behind Ghana, Gabon is just ahead of Hungary's 146th world air quality ranking. You know what I mean? In terms of air pollution in Europe, we are the last in the region, from Albania to Belarus, everyone is ahead of us. It is therefore shocking that the government, which has burned hundreds of billions of people to spread various propaganda and lies, has hidden a consultation on climate protection and blames the European Union for its omissions. And there's absolutely no excuse for that. The fact that nearly 13,000 people die in Hungary every year, and all because of air pollution, is also stopping the breath. This means that we lose 35 of our countrymen a day because of poor air quality. With this result, we are ranked 17th in the World Health Organization rankings. And to be quite specific about the responsibility: the NER is covering for, for example, the stróman Mészáros owned it for the Matra Thermal Power Plant. In the case of environmental pollution in the plant, disaster protection conceals the results of the measurements. Facts are stubborn things. More and more people in the city and in the power plant have gone to the doctor for drowning and air complaints. I feel like we're running out of air. All this fits into the general political credo of the government, is not aware of the system of social responsibility, i.e. it is characterized by the fact that NER is not interested in social responsibility. So all that is missing from the system of national cooperation is cooperation. Mr President, Fellow Members! Cooperation is about lack of coordination, the looting of the rights of Hungarian workers, the lying to those who live on wages and salaries, and misconception. That's why teachers protest on Saturday the 30th at 2 p.m. And here I take this opportunity to invite our voters, our supporters, all those who listen to our voice to support not only the teachers but also the fight of all workers and trade unions who live on wages and salaries. So I'll see you on the 30th at 2:00 P.M.A. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-25-6	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Tamás Schanda responds to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-11-25-7	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Several topics were mentioned in his speech before the agenda. Allow me to try to line up on these. The fact is that the Hungarian government's determined objective and this is also actively linked to air quality is that in the medium term, most of the Hungarian electricity generation comes from two sources, namely renewable energy production, mainly solar power, solar parks and nuclear energy. These are not mutually exclusive technologies, but complementary technologies; they can only strengthen one another and only be considered as a secure energy supply together. Both can be considered as clean energy sources. This is why the Hungarian opposition is wrong when it attacks nuclear energy, Paks II. it attacks investment, as this is necessary to ensure that we can continue to provide clean, affordable and accessible energy safely to all. If these developments are implemented, our solar and nuclear development will be achieved, by 2030 90% of Hungarian electricity production will be carbon-free. In addition, I do not think that I will tell you anything new about a series of negotiations on how to create an overall climate-neutral economy in the European Union by 2050. In particular, the Hungarian position is clear and clear that this can be achieved, but only through radical and deep economic transformation programmes, to which the European Union must also contribute by bearing significant financial burdens. The fact is, however, there is still a need for a number of improvements, and these improvements are taking place. There is a need to improve the energy efficiency of residential buildings and households, to install renewable energy systems. This is what the government's launch and excellent operation of the home heat program is all about. In the framework of this programme, nearly 310 thousand households have been subject to energy modernisation, resulting in a reduction in CO2 emissions in Hungary by 130 thousand tonnes. The government also aims to increase the size of forest areas from 21% to 27%. To this end, almost 50 million trees are planted in public forests under the tree planting programme. Allow me to talk about the form of information on which you referred to by the congresswoman. Indeed, a questionnaire was published on the government portal, which is not a national consultation, but a form of information required by the European Commission, Brussels. [[Gergely Harvesto: That's not true! That's a specific lie!]] If the government wants to hold any kind of national consultation on climate issues, it will, of course, do so in the usual manner. The government is working against you, and it stands firm for the protection of the created world, and we are doing everything we can to make improvements and projects that contribute to the protection of the created world and the climate. [[11.30]] The fact is that we do not need unrealistic plans here, but practical steps. That is why we look forward to what practical measures will be taken after the capital has announced the climate crisis. If there are any of these that we find applicable, then of course we will be happy to take it over. However, we see that no such measure has been taken at this time, and that no decision has been taken in the capital that would support the words that sound nicely in practice. What we see is that you are using the questions that affect the fate of our future only to divert attention from your own inertia, while trying to exploit and expropriate important issues such as climate protection for the sake of self-aware political goals. This is unacceptable. This should be a matter that is above the parties and in which we can work together and work together to preserve Hungary's role. Hungary is doing well in this area. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-25-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, A pre-meeting speech has been submitted by Ms Ágnes Vadai, Democratic Coalition: the list of pedophiles is re-submitted by DK with the title of the proposal for a resolution previously rejected by Fidesz. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2019-11-25-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, 2015. He was legally sentenced to a suspended sentence of one and a half years and for five years he banned from the teaching profession the 36-year-old priest-teacher who tried to approach two students in a Piarist school in Nagykanizsa for sexual purposes.2016. At the beginning of September, a children's home boy threw himself in front of the train in Bichke. The next day, a friend of his went to the police and filed a sexual harassment report following his RTL Club Out of House, according to which the director of the Kossuth Zsuzsa Children's Home in Bicske has sexually harassed the vulnerable boys in the children's home for decades. 2017. The Capital Court, who sexually harassed their own minor children, has legally sentenced those parents in Szentmiklós to 13 years of detention. 2018. At times it was every month, every two days, and then every day it was depraved. He tied me up several times and locked me in the room. I had dreams, desires, plans, and then they dragged me out into the dark reality. A grown-up today said this about his stepfather last year, who has been sexually assaulting him for years. Yet, the Diocese of Székesfehérvár concerned the person as a teacher of the faith. The man then suspected that in one of his classes he was trying to force the 9 - and - 7 - year - old girl who was his disciples to commit lewdness. Parents, grandparents, foster parents, elementary school teachers, high school teachers, creed teachers, priests, coaches in recent years have been able to read about all kinds of misdemeanors of sex crimes committed against minors, abusing the child's trust and vulnerable situation, with child's respect. 'Cause who would think that a kind priest or teacher or even the coach could commit more than once such a serious crime, almost equal to the killing of human life? Even on 31 May 2016, the Judicial Committee discussed the proposal for a resolution, which I also quoted, which asked the Government to legislate on the publication of the register of sex offenders. We were led by two goals, to ensure that such wretches could never come near children again, and to reduce the number of such crimes using the deterrent power of the greater public. Unfortunately, the then pro-government representatives wiped out our proposal. But such a law would not be unique in the world. The so-called Megan law exists in several states of the United States of America. Megan Kanka, who lived next door, was 7 years old when she was raped and then strangled with hers. The man has been convicted of sexual assault on a minor before. Parents had no idea the man next door was an aberrant. Dear House, I have heard from you many times that such a law would be contrary to the Fundamental Law. There have been data protection concerns, and even some Members have argued that the Hungarian address register is not accurate, so they voted against our proposal. Interestingly, when it comes to pedophiles, you guys can be real human rights fighters. I would like to ask: if your child, nephew, niece or acquaintance were the victim, would I still be browsing the Fundamental Law or consulting human rights organisations? I suppose not. Therefore, I do not understand, tell me what is preventing us from jointly finding a legal way to make the list of the perpetrators of crimes committed to harm children, together with data, public. I'll be honest with you. In this case, I am not interested in protecting the data of the Fundamental Law or of the perpetrators. All I care about is that anyone who has committed such a serious crime that cripples the human body and soul should wear this stamp for the rest of his life at least by getting to know his name and place of residence. So that you can't be a schoolteacher or a teacher or a coach again. Because if you rape a child, God can't forgive you, why should we? That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are re-submitting our proposal for a decision in order to protect the children. If all Hungarian children really are important to you, then put aside party politics and support our parliamentary decision proposal that the list of sex offenders should be made public, accessible to anyone on the Internet. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-11-25-10	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-11-25-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, There is always a discreet charm to say this when a representative of an eight-year ruling coalition wreckage party, the former prime minister of the president, who hasn't acted in this area, and unfortunately there were paedophiles in this area, these crimes are repeated, there are always so many deviants in society that this can happen, who have seen what this government has done in recent years, for example, we have said that these crimes are not over when they go public, they can be prosecuted at any time, they will not escape. What was comforting in the list of Members was that these people were condemned legally. These people are being punished. These people are registered. We've stated in the Labour Code that they're banned from employment. So if they want to work in the public sector or in any place where they would be entrusted with the supervision of children, they must prove to everyone, including those who have not suffered such punishment, that they have not been prosecuted for such crimes. This was not the case in previous regulations. This provides prevention for those who are present in education and in this area in 18 years, these people cannot go back into the system. You mentioned, Congresswoman, that there are different rights at odds. Indeed. There is a range of public data in the public interest that can be regulated by the law. If possible and possible, we will, of course, constantly tighten them on these priority issues. And there is another right, as a fundamental right, which you mentioned, the scope of the protection of the personal data of the data subject. These two rights are in conflict. How we can resolve this and how to tighten it up so that there is even more public information; the primary objective I have listed, whether the abolition of statute of limitations or the fact that these people are unable to work in an area where they are in contact with minors, or I could say that the scope of penalties is broadened so that they can be banned from the approach of the institution concerned, can be subject to protective supervision, virtually not be approached by persons against whom endangerment would occur, this is all the result of the legislation of the last few years. There is no doubt that the government has taken significant steps forward in this area. In practice, prevention, imprisonment, disbarment of occupation, the abolition of limitation periods, the longer exemption period are all intended to ensure the protection of minors. At the same time, there is the proportionality issue, which must be borne by all legislation. Of course, the government is constantly examining how to move forward in these areas, even at the risk of being victims of an adverse constitutional or Strasbourg or even Luxembourg procedure, because it is indeed possible to do so in this case, as the Member said. I hope you'll show this much courage again when it comes to national interests [[Dr. Agnes Vadai, we're talking about pedophiles.]] and other things. [[11.40]] The list you mentioned when you mentioned what kind of instructors, what kind of people you were talking about was very nice. I missed one thing, though. This may not be about pedophiles, but you could have easily listed the stage directors, the emblematic figures of the Balliberal side. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: We were talking about pedophiles.]] who you're covering for, who's practically hiding all the data. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Shame on you, Secretary of State.]] they refer to all kinds of regulations. Lot. Erzsébet Németh [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Shame on you! We're talking about pedophiles!]] a candidate for Deputy Mayor of DK in the capital [[The president's ringing the bell.]] practically issued a statement in which, far from protecting women's dignity, [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: How do you do that? Shame on you. When children are raped!]] It covers predators who have been practically destroying young lives in public life for decades in theatre life. [[Péter Ungár: What does that have to do with anything?]] Now, of course, the age of 18 can be seen as an age after which you can do anything with a woman. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We're talking about five-year-old children and babies!]] But we don't see that as such either. I would like you to form an assemblywoman on these matters as well. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: There must also be action in those, but that is not the question! The president's ringing again.]] behind government legislation and in the same way stand for women's rights... [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: It's outrageous!]]
u2019-11-25-12	Congresswoman, this is not a dialogue.
u2019-11-25-13	...and judge those who [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: It's outrageous!]] among your friends, your perpetrators belong in this circle. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Amazing! Sit down. Shame on you.]] If they don't do that, then it's just polish. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Shame! He's taking the side of the pedophiles!]] And they want to cover up these scandals [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: You're on the side of the pedophiles, aren't you? Congratulations.]] that plague public life today. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Disgusting! I can tell it's disgusting. We're talking about pedophiles!]] Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-25-14	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congresswoman, try to hold back a little bit. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That speech was disgusting! It's children!]] Try to hold back. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: It's children!]] Dear Parliament, Let's hope Congresswoman calms down. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: I am calm, Mr. President. Talk to the parents whose children were raped. Shame!]] Congresswoman Márta Demeter applied for a pre-meeting speech. Are you willing to take the interests of the Hungarian people into account? It's an address. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-11-25-15	Thank you very much. Mr President, Relieved by the shock caused by Secretary of State Völner's response, I will now talk about economic issues before the agenda. We are facing a difficult test because it is forecast that the Western European economies will have colder and darker times announced in the Prime Minister's radio interview on 17 November. He also said that, of course, the Central European countries cannot completely separate themselves from these developments, for example, 85 percent of their exports to the western part of the EU. Yes, expert opinions and forecasts point in the direction that we are on the verge of a crisis. The question is, of course, whether this is going to be a milder, cyclical crisis, or whether we should expect a deep, prolonged structural crisis. The question of our country is that, at last, the government is willing to take the interests of the Hungarian people into consideration and to decide on the way and means of crisis management. The government is an unconditional supplier of corporate interests. Therefore, nothing is expensive to you, let us remember that even the EU climate plan has been vetoed, just to serve automotive companies, while putting their own designated oligarchs in other sectors, not regretting either the Hungarian taxpayers' money or the resources that the EU budget should devote to developing the country's common goals. For your part, it is a fully conscious policy that Hungarian people's wages are kept low. The automotive industry now accounts for 20 percent of GDP, thus serving the Hungarian economy, keeping people in poverty, and a possible crisis can very easily and permanently undermine the Hungarian economy and bankrupt the country. This is your responsibility. In the first months of this year, the government allocated nearly HUF 27 billion in job creation support to most foreign corporations. Based on the number of jobs, the Hungarian state costs an average of HUF 19 million for a new, individual government decision. [[Tamás Menczer: In all cases it will pay off! We told you that a thousand times! Jesus Christ!]] It's the word of bad economic choices. We need an immediate economic turnaround. The economic policy which only regards multi-enterprises and Hungarian large-capital players as the actors to be supported by the Hungarian economy cannot continue. [[Tamás Menczer: Go to BMW Slovakia!]] A new equilibrium is needed in the economy, which requires the development of a targeted support system for Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which, of course, requires sufficient resources. We have been saying this for years, and it is regrettable that the government has only now felt it important, on the brink of a possible crisis, to put together a strategy for small and medium-sized enterprises. Of course, it is better later than never, although with concrete proposals for solutions and the resources allocated to them, they remained indebted. At least the SME strategy recognises the problems correctly, but how they will strengthen businesses if you act against them. The most skilled workforce, hundreds of thousands of young people who have migrated abroad, are trying to replace cheap and untrained Ukrainian and Indian labour, and state resources were given to multinationals even at the beginning of this year instead of domestic small and medium-sized enterprises. It is important to know that these domestic businesses employ significantly more people than foreign multinationals. For this reason, and in order to achieve the economic crisis resistance and the protection of jobs, these small businesses should be supported by the state, helped to operate innovatively, develop their own Hungarian products and market them, exported abroad, and not only be a multi-party vulnerable supplier for so much money that they cannot sustain themselves. These small companies are also vital for the development of domestic regions, as their productive operation provides the opportunity for young people to thrive locally, not to leave their homes, not to migrate abroad, but to start a family where they were born. They cannot put the burden of a future crisis on Hungarian people. For large foreign companies, clear rules need to be laid down: tax in Hungary and expand their social engagement with substantial investments, vocational training and substantial infrastructure improvements to help people's mobility. This requires, of course, the rule of law and independent institutions, in which your government is not very good. We're on the side of the people, and we're doing everything we can to keep people's skin from being put on the line. In order for foreign capital to operate in Hungary within the framework of the rules of the interests of Hungarians, the development of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises should be facilitated. That's what we stand for. And what do you do about it? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-25-16	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, Deputy Minister, wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Deputy Minister.
u2019-11-25-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and When we talk about the Hungarian economy, we must certainly look back. Let's do the flashback all the way [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Until 1930! Just like you guys used to.]] Until 2010, because in 2010 the current government took over the country by having the Hungarian economy in crisis. Since 2010, especially considering the turn of 2013, the Hungarian economy has taken a healthy and balanced growth path. Since 2010, GDP has increased by 31,3%. Data from recent years: GDP, economic growth increased by 4.3 percent in 2017 and 5.1 percent in 2018, and the same pace continued in 2019, that is, this year, as the country was able to achieve great performance in the EU comparison as well. The economy grew by 5 percent in the third quarter, an increase of nearly four times compared to 1.3 percent in the EU. The Hungarian economy did better in all areas, for example, the volume of construction production was 17.8 percent, and industrial production was 11.1 percent higher than the data of a year ago. The turnover of commercial businesses has also increased by 5.8 percent in the first nine months, indicating that consumption has also been able to increase significantly, which is in line with the trend of recent years. As far as earnings are concerned, net earnings increased by 10.8 percent in the first eight months of the year, and in the light of real earnings, they exceeded 7 per cent, and that figure is 7.1 per cent. [[11.50]] This year, the national economy has also achieved a very outstanding result in terms of investment, as the value of investments increased by 19 percent in the second quarter, representing HUF 2400 billion to the national economy, and 62 large investments have already started in the country by the end of October. But what is really the reason for this is that, contrary to your claim, the Hungarian economy, Hungary's performance is good and outstanding in the European Union, obviously this is a complex process and the combined existence of several things has caused this outstanding result. It also needed government measures, tax and wage agreements, the Programme for Competitive Hungary, support for home creation, public investment. Employment and public consumption achieved by the above mentioned wage catch-up are also very favourable. But the same is true of the newly built export capacities, as they also show an increase, and of course, this required the efficient use of EU funds. The factors listed above are reflected in the positive performance. Due to developments over the past period, the production of the industry with increased capacity increased by 6.3 percent despite the low external demand and infirm German industrial output during the first nine months of the year. Overall, therefore, the good performance of the economy is based on three pillars, ensuring that we can continue to produce outstanding growth data in line with the European Union. On the one hand, the exploitation of labour reserves supports further employment growth in order to achieve the targets set in 2010 and the second factor is investment in increasing production capacities, I have mentioned above, there are 62 such large investments, and the third is technological improvements to improve efficiency, which, of course, requires these cohesion forces and the government's foresight to continuously develop economic protection action plans during the crisis and to present to Parliament that Parliament can accept it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-25-18	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Sándor Burány applied for a pre-meeting speech with the title of the Dialogue Group on Current Affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-11-25-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear House, We could get used to something happening around the house of the Hungarian National Bank. After a while, as a result of the scandals, the public had already turned to the agenda over former cases, as it had immediately absorbed billions of public funds into foundations, so that these foundations could have a good job opportunity for family members of the heads of the National Bank, a girlfriend of the President of the National Bank, and her mother. However, this may have repercussions; if I were you, I would tell Sándor Németh, because it is known that the most important professional activity of György Matolcsy's girlfriend is that he was a yoga instructor or at least a yoga instructor. I can't imagine if and if Sándor Németh is right, how many demons could have been released as a result of yoga at the central bank. We really don't want to wake up one day to see these demons moving into György Matolcsy's head, and we actually hear them when the president of the Central Bank talks about professional matters. So if Sándor Németh is right, then pay attention to this part. One thing I ask of you and the Hungarian National Bank: if there are any exorcisms, such rituals, it should not be awarded to anyone in public procurement, because in this case it is feared that Lőrinc Mészáros will win this public procurement, because we know that Lőrinc Mészáros knows that he understands everything, more precisely: he understands everything. But in the near days, the Hungarian National Bank has reached its level. It has launched its growth bond programme in the second wave, and, unlike the first such bond scheme, it has now explicitly announced it to large business operators. Well, these big entrepreneurs weren't even resets, and it's interesting to find among the winners a number of NER riders, an oligarch near Fidesz. Thus, one of the beneficiaries of this bond scheme was the Appeninn, in which István Tiborcz and Lőrinc Mészáros are the owners; Opus Global, linked to László Szíj, is the Duna Aszphalt; the 4iG linked to Gellert Jászai; the Market Builder linked to István Garancsi, connected to Mária Schmidt; some companies were mentioned. These companies are the biggest beneficiaries of this preferential bond scheme. Technically, this means that they receive preferential loans from the Hungarian National Bank for the growth and operation of their businesses. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank has booked most of the bonds issued so far, worth some HUF 80 billion, worth HUF 50 billion. So what's really going on is to put these fattened companies in an even more favourable position under such preferential credit schemes, so that their owners can look around the country, that there is still a castle that they haven't bought, there is still a part of the Lake Balaton that hasn't been bought, there is a part of the Hungarian shore of Lake Fertő that hasn't been bought yet. Basically, what happens is that most of the country is bought with public money, with Hungary's money. And even though you know about Lőrinc Mészáros, he may be smarter than Zuckerberg himself, the truth is, you really don't have to be smart about that. Because this bonding program is worth it to the idiot, it's obviously worth it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-11-25-20	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2019-11-25-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm trying to respond, at least to those parts that are somewhat serious. I'd like to tell you that Sándor Németh doesn't have a government position, so it's not my place to respond. However, I do not know why it is necessary to insult representatives of certain professions; it is not the first time on the left side. What if someone's a yoga instructor? They're in yoga, someone's teaching it, someone else's teaching it. What they do in a series is that certain crafts, certain tradesmen, experts are insulted here. I understand cynicism. I'm just asking you not to bring it here. As far as the National Bank is concerned, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have the opportunity to address a question to the National Bank. Other fellow Members take advantage of this opportunity. In this case, the government is not responsible, it is an independent institution, in accordance with the legal requirements. Besides, the economy is growing by 5 percent, inflation is low, over 800,000 new jobs have been created. If the National Bank didn't do its job effectively, they wouldn't be possible. As far as your ideas are concerned, what you would do with this country, we know little about it, but what you do in Budapest and in certain municipalities is the guiding principle. We can draw conclusions from their actions, not from their speeches of this type. You have now referred to a number of people, but let us start by starting or continuing to smuggle back the people of the past, for example, the new head of the Board of Directors of the BKV became a man close to Gábor Kuncze, who assisted the privatisation process as Chief of ÁPV. So if you are so sensitive to national wealth, then raise your word; otherwise, you were a witness to the Tochik trial. The board of trustees in the capital may have had the seat of a man who was previously trusted by László Puch and his company partner. Why don't you raise your word? Compared to this, János Atkári, who holds serious positions during the troubled period, will be able to light the VIII. district contracts. Again, they leave the cabbage to the goat. [[12.00]] And in these cases, the mayor of the PM says that the parties make the decision, he wasn't really there, he wasn't responsible, and it doesn't affect what kind of contracts the district mayors conclude anyway. Well, how could it not? It affects not only him, but all of us, and everything else in Budapest, especially when it comes back to those who once brought the capital into bankruptcy. If I look at your specific suggestions, it's not a rosy picture. According to press reports, the construction tax increase in the capital is on the agenda. Why didn't you bring this here, Your Honour? This is not surprising on the part of the tax maniac left, because we know that your party would reduce family tax relief, increase corporate tax, while they were thinking about property taxes earlier. The first drops of this damaging policy have now appeared in Budapest. Allow me, Congressman, you have mentioned several cases, and I would also like to take this opportunity to respond to one more case. It doesn't belong directly here, but it belongs to your party. A few days ago, your fellow Congressman presented an interesting thought run. He suggested that the upcoming Trianon anniversary should be remembered together with the surrounding countries. It is now difficult to decide whether we are faced with celebrity naivety, or whether we are once again kicked with two legs in foreign Hungarians, because there have been many examples of the latter on the part of opposition parties. We're not against reconciliation, by the way, but what you're suggesting is evidence of insensitiveness. It's just like when Momentum is XXI. Refers to the century and campaigns with Romanian parties at the expense of Hungarian parties abroad. The reality of the idea is explained by the fact that the former Romanian President talked about Romania starting at the Tisza even a few days ago. Hungarians in several countries are fighting for their basic language rights, hundreds of years after Trianon. How do you think it could be remembered together under these circumstances? How can we celebrate together? So, we suggest that the next time you suggest such a stupidity, you should also ask the Hungarian communities abroad first. There will be serious reports, and it is not too late for them to be heard along with their foreign sponsors. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-25-22	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mrs Judit Czunyiné Bertalan, Fidesz Group, spoke with the title "Actual Affairs." You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2019-11-25-23	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Although my fellow Member Vadai has already left the meeting room, I think that in this matter, in which he made his speech, they are playing again a little bit on the instrument they like. On the subject referred to, there was a case in the last week or something similar to the subject, which they did not respond to. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Christmas responded!]] It also shows that they are making a circus or just a fuss about some victims, the actual actions, the legislation, the tightening up of the Fidesz-KDNP government since 2010. The news came out last week that the Katona József Theatre terminated an immediate contract with one of its directors. The communication was narrow, and all that was said was that, in view of the extreme seriousness of the case, the communication was, in several cases, about his fellow officer who had been acting in a way that crossed moral boundaries. On Wednesday, however, the news exploded that the person concerned was Péter Gothár, a former politician in the colours of the SZDSZ. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: How do we know it wasn't a Fidesz voter?]] In a statement, he himself admitted that he was the one who approached a coworker in a morally unacceptable way. However, the question of the testimony may arise as to how many people may be involved: while the Teatry talks about several affected workers, it is awarded the Kossuth and National Artist Award Gothar reports only one incident. I'm telling you, there's only one case more than is allowed. It is surprising that the Teatre tries to protect the accused director with the obligation of secrecy, despite the fact that it was the Katona József Theatre, which, when the campaign exploded, called itself the leader in the fight against sexual harassment, drew up a charter and even prepared a lecture on the subject. Now we are saddened to see that when the real scandal breaks out, the theatre deals only with how to save the well - known director instead of protecting the victims. However, it is a superficial measure on the part of the theatre to remove a Gothar arrangement from its programme until the end of the season, and what is more, from various press releases, we have learned that Gothar's actions have been covered up for at least a year. Ladies and gentlemen, At the very least, he is trying to conceal and cover up the case by the balliberal cultural elite, who, in the case of crimes affecting sensitive areas like this, try to make their voices as loud as possible. It's worrying that Gy. Erzsébet Németh, a prominent politician of DK, who is currently Deputy Mayor of Culture, stated that the case is closed on his part, as the theatre has not filed a criminal complaint. I would like to ask my fellow women who are in the room that, in their opinion, it is all over. Let Anett Bősz, Ágnes Kunhalmi, Ágnes Vadai, or even my fellow Member, Bangóné, and all of us confess why they do not demonstrate spectacularly, openly now, when a person belonging to the Balliberal Cultural elite is involved in the scandal! Of course, both theater and the University of Theatre and Film Arts, where Gothar also works among others, should be expected to investigate the matter thoroughly. The criterion of thoroughness is already being questioned by the university that a committee, not an outsider but a friend of Gothar, was asked to conduct the investigation. Interestingly, members or members of the last film director's department of the Kossuth Prize winner are filming a film about sexual harassment. Dear House, I have no right, nor will I, nor will I wish to accuse you. [[Zsolt Gréczy: That's what you're doing!]] But I would like to stress, in any case, that the minimum required by the theatre is to detect exactly how many times and against how many victims the director may have committed an immoral act. An investigation shall be carried out which may or may be justified by the request of the law enforcement authority if a substantiated suspicion of the offence of harassment is established. It is not possible to cover up such acts in Hungary. [[Zsolt Gréczy: And the blind comondo!]] Such persons are unworthy of winning any state medal in the future. It is also sad, my fellow Members, my sad, dear fellow Member, that the opposition theatre left out a scene from last week's performance. You missed a scene because you were busy talking for 15 hours in this House about not talking. About important matters that can't be used for their own purposes, but they listen. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: That's not what we were talking about! We were talking about grievances!]] Dear House, Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-25-24	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-11-25-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me first to respond to the professional side of the question [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Did he have a professional side?]] And then the actuality. As far as the issue is concerned, the government considers it particularly important to combat violence against women and children, and we reject all forms of violence. As regards the issue of violence against women, the new Btk., one of Europe's most rigorous criminal codes, came into force in 2013, protecting women in particular and punishing violence against women in particular. This is a case where it is particularly important to indicate the problem as soon as possible, to ask for help, and this is supported by a mobile phone application from this year onwards. The National Crisis Management and Information Telephone Service is available free of charge and 20 crisis centers, 8 shelters and 7 crisis clinics are also available. As far as violence against children is concerned, it was the government that initiated the tightening of the criminal code earlier. As of 2012, children will be given special protection and strict punishment for perpetrators of sexual crimes against children. I would like to remind everyone here that in the vote on tightening up, the representatives of the MSZP and LMP voted against and Jobbik abstained. So much for who has an attitude to this question. Since then, the Parliament has tightened the law further, and from January 2018, violence against children under the age of 12 can be punished more severely. On the basis of the amendment, sexual crimes committed under 12 years of age, if the perpetrator is a relative of the victim, or the victim is raised, supervised, cared for or otherwise under the influence of his authority, he will be punished by the Btk for a sentence of up to 5-15 years, and that is regardless of whether the act was committed by coercion or with the consent of the victim. [[12.10]] As far as the current issue is concerned, it is indeed shocking: last week, the Katona József Theatre issued a narrow statement on this issue. It is said that in many cases a coworker has behaved in a way that transcends moral boundaries with the workers of the theatre. They also mentioned that the man in question had been banned, that cooperation had been interrupted. Then, on Wednesday, Péter Gothár's statement was published on the side of the theater, who admitted that he had approached a colleague in an unacceptable manner and apologized for it. There are still a lot of contradictions in the case, for example, the theatre writes about several cases, and Péter Gothár acknowledged only one in comparison. Either way, questions are being asked, so we need a full investigation. We need to investigate how many victims there are. It has to be examined that more such cases may have occurred, it has to be examined that the heads of the institutions knew about these cases, and if so, they have tried to sweep them under the carpet. The reason we need to be clear is because there are suspected cases of crime. The case must be investigated so that such cases may not occur again. Honourable House, and in particular, honourable opposition representatives! When it comes to violence against women, you often take action here in Parliament. Ágnes Vadai used to paint himself a black eye, and other times the politicians of MSZP and Dialogue used their mouths glued to protest against violence against women. There was Ms. Ágnes Kunhalmi, Mrs. Zita Gurmai and Tibor Szanyi; Congresswoman Timea Szabó once lit a candle in memory of the victims. [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] Now for some reason, when there's a specific case, we don't see these actions. There are no painted blacks, no glued mouths, and no candle, none! Why not? We can only hope they don't cover for the perpetrators. It is not too late to act, to be partners, to see clearly in this serious matter. If women's rights and the fight against violence are really important, they will speak now! We don't need theatrical scenes, we need honest words and courage. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Zsolt Gréczy: Istanbul Convention!]]
u2019-11-25-26	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Ander Balázs, Member of the Jobbik Group, asked for a pre-meeting speech with the title of "Bodza": "Road." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-11-25-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It's not just the bodza rot, it's something rotting in justice and prison. We here, in the Jobbik faction, say that if there was no mercy, there should be no mercy. But let me start from a little further away. I had a student who grew up in the gypsy colony, his father raised him alone, they had the power tied up, and if they had to, he was preparing for graduation with a headlight, which he managed, and he's been working as a cop ever since. I'm very proud of him. I am very proud of Pista Pista Kalány of Babacsa, who made it to Iraq as the first Gypsy oil drill master of the country, from here his name is Pista of Iraq. And I'm proud of my acquaintances, my friends of gypsy origin, who, as teachers, postmen, shopkeepers, can take their place. But there are other kinds of people, and it really doesn't matter the color of the skin. There are those who, in fact, view their fellow humans as undomestical animals of prey, and they have no emotion for their fellow humans: they live according to a kind of stone - age morality, thus excluding themselves from the community of normal people. Well, the seed of the supposedly rich Stoika family of Enying, whose seedling, Iván Stojka, has returned to prison. It seems that this good man, who took the elder's journey, did not turn into a remorseful lamb, after receiving the almost four and a half years of mercy from the postmortem murder of Marian Cozma, did not turn out to be a remorseful lamb, for he had committed another horrendous crime. Well, let's look at the chronology, the long record the Enying Mafia has. In the summer of 2008, a horde of about 150-200 people, under the leadership of the national Gypsy Butter, marched up Siófok, and in February 2009, in the Patriot Bar in Veszprém, there was a devastating and outrageous crime with which an entire country was stabbed in the heart. The cohabitation of Hungarian-Gypsy co-existence with centuries of problems was stabbed in the heart by all normal, honest gypsy people who committed this unrated villainy there. First they stabbed this world-class handball player, the Romanian Marian Cozma in the back, and then, after he was stabbed in the heart, he was kicked twice in the head. Well, that was a total outrage to Hungarian society when the second degree in Győr reduced the 20 years of the first sentence to eight years. Then the Curia intervened, and it became 13 years, but please, fellow Members, four years and five months have been released from the punishment of this criminal bastard, and now he has continued where he left off. Hungarian society was also outraged by the fact that a release party was held in 2018 at Siófok on the Golden Beach, where the nanny attended hundreds of people, instead of paying the compensation to Marian Cozma's family, something of that 211 million HUF would have been repaid! No, Stoika was waiting for luxury BMW and villas, instead of confiscating these goods from her or her family, and they would have compensated the family, which had suffered incredible pain because of the loss of their son. But there's still this record, this criminal record, that's on the run of the Enying Mafia. I do not burden you with this, but I would say that here, in the Jobbik faction, we are not willing to settle for the formation of no-go zones in this country, hostile tribal areas, where such figures can basically bask as small kings and not be punished, but, please, reward them by releasing them from prison even after such a murderous, unsavory act, when they are such victims of the uncontrollable bloodlust. Please, honourable members of the Government, if you do not make the laws that can help these people to be contained and delivered where they belong, then we will do so here in the Jobbik faction. Please pay attention to our press conferences and accept the proposals that we will try to save [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the Hungarian-Gypsy co-existence issue. Thank you very much. [[A big round of applause in the benches of the Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-25-28	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Károly Kontra will respond. You have the floor.
u2019-11-25-29	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We have made the laws that have tightened up against the perpetrators of crime. We have passed Act C of 2012, the new Criminal Code, which has included significant restrictions on the following cases: a more pronounced approach to criminal law in proportion to action; a tightening of the provisions on relapses, in particular, see the Enying gang you spoke about - ; tightened sentences for several crimes, the introduction of the institution of three strikes, further tightening the penalties for relapsers for several crimes. For example, in the case of sexual abuse or sexual abuse of a person under 18 years of age, the court may impose more serious penalties on the perpetrators of crimes committed against children, women and elderly persons. [[Intercoms in Jobbik's benches.]] Honourable Congressman! You're not telling the truth! You didn't vote for it. Jobbik's faction did not support this aggravate law, the new criminal code [[Rushing in the benches of Jobbik: You have released the serious criminals!]] but not supported by socialist party legislators [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And the LMP didn't support it either. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Now is the time to answer!]] Honourable Congressman, Now you're asking us to do something that the government has tabled as a tightening up and Parliament has accepted, and you have not supported it. Now you're going to tell me, openly, that you're on the side of criminals? ! [[There's a rush in Jobbik's benches.]] Don't you protect law-abiding people, honourable Member? ! [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] [[12.20]] So, I would like to clarify this, and I would also like to say here that Hungary is a democratic rule of law, where the laws are binding on everyone. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: Yeah, right.]] Regardless of race, race, religion, and anyone who violates or violates the law must be counted against the need to bear the consequences. I would also like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that the Hungarian police in all the settlements of Hungary are taking decisive action against those who break the law, protecting the lives, assets of citizens, ensuring public order and public security. Honourable Congressman, I would like to state and reject your claim that there are no go zones in Hungary. There is order in Hungary, there is order in every settlement in Hungary, there is security [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Sure! Tell me more.]] and the government will provide the necessary conditions for this. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me also say a few concrete things about the fact that in 2010, when we took over government after 1998-2002, we said that we would restore order and create security in Hungary. To this end, we have adopted strict laws, see Act C of 2012, the new Criminal Code, which entered into force on 1 July 2013, strengthened the police force, increased the number of police officers by 6,000, provided the police with technical tools to ensure effective action. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] And thanks to this, the police's sacrifice has reduced the number of known crimes by more than 65 percent. This went below 200,000 by the police, while defending borders, protecting Hungary's Schengen borders against illegal migration. Honourable Congressman, I would also like to say that the judgments in the case you are asking were not brought by the government, but by the Hungarian court, whose independence you are fighting for. About the release of the criminal you named [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] It's the court's decision. But I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that this discount, with which he was released, will expire at that moment, and in the event of his recondemnance, this will be added to the new sentence. Ladies and gentlemen, So it is very important to be aware of the real situation in this case. I would like to draw your attention, your faction, the Jobbik faction and all opposition groups, to the fact that if you really care about the safety of Hungarian people, the protection of Hungarian people, the protection of women, minors, children and the elderly, then support and vote in favour of the laws that we are presenting to this Parliament because they have not done so far. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] They've never done it before. I trust that in the future, if they are serious about this issue, they will change their position and then support the Hungarian people, support the fight against violence against women, support the security of Hungary, the Hungarian people. I hope that if they are serious about this, they will do so in the future, but that is not the case at the moment. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-25-30	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Before closing the speeches before the agenda, I would like to announce that Kocsis-Cake Olivio, Dialogue, is on a point of order. Before I give you the floor, I would like to inform you, Mr President, that you can express your position in two minutes, and that we will not open a debate on this issue, and that there is no further debate. Thank you. You have the floor.
u2019-11-25-31	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I had to speak because I am very sorry that the Secretary of State is speaking here in Parliament on the basis of false news, based on a fake news portal that is falsifying my words and not giving back what I have said. Origo has done the same thing before, cut a video, and set it up as if I were saying that I wanted them to migrate to Hungary in bulk, and I also won this lawsuit, and the Origo had to create a correction. I posted on my Facebook page the whole video that's about it can be viewed. There's not a word of celebration or anything there. I'll tell you what this is about, Mr. Secretary. The topic at the conference was, I don't know if you know, that Russian fake news portals, Romanian and Slovak extremists are already moving about Trianon next year to stir up tensions, and a historian said that there could be serious tensions. This is what I said that it is very important in this respect, too, that we parliamentary parties be united here, which is not happening, because you do not involve us at all in the preparations for Trianon, we know nothing about it. And what is very important is that neighbouring countries must be involved in this, at least at the level of information, that it is not in our interest to stimulate tension, but in our interest to commemorate Trianon and commemorate foreign Hungarians. That was at the conference, and that was what I said. So everything else is a lie, and we'll close it in court. I ask the Secretary of State not to believe a racist journalist who cannot accept that I speak in matters of national politics, but to believe me when I speak here or anywhere, because I have not said such things, and they have forged my words. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-25-32	Dear Parliament, On the basis of personal concerns, the Member has made his point, and we consider the matter to be closed, at least at this stage. Dear Parliament, After the end of the speeches before the agenda, I announce that Péter Ágh, Fidesz; Lajos Rig, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Zoltán Fenyvesi, Fidesz; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Anita Kőrösi Potocskané, Jobbik; Tamás Csányi, Jobbik; Tibor Nunkovics, Tibor Jobbik; Richárd Hörcsik, Fidesz; Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP; László Hajdu, DK; István Apáti is independent. Dear Parliament, Now, at 12:26 p.m., we move on to questions and immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister a question: From Győr they ask: The horse looks, the foal sees where the golden dutch has gone. It's an address. In answering this question, the Prime Minister appointed Miklós Kásler, Minister of Human Resources, who is competent and competent according to the subject. At the request of the Minister, Minister Bence Rétvári will answer the question. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2019-11-25-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! The collection of the Rómer Flóris Art and Historical Museum in Győr was replaced and stolen, estimated at HUF 500 million. The National Bureau of Investigation and the Attorney General of Győr informed everyone through the press that the investigation had been launched and that the medal collection exchanged for counterfeit was seized. Otherwise, it is an extremely important issue for the Hungarian cultural heritage, and irreplaceable values may be lost, since it is typical of Hun, Longobard and Avar era. Ferenc Csóka, president of the Association of Hungarian Medal Collectors, said that most of these can be demanded in Western Europe, and it is assumed that counterfeits were not made in Hungary either, as there is probably no capacity for this at home. As I have already said, the investigation is ongoing, particularly because of suspicion of high-value theft, so, obviously, I will not be able to get an answer from you in relation to the specific investigation here, but there are still questions beyond that. Since then, because it may be years, we can't even know that since the counterfeit coins have been issued, so since we know there's been a problem here, whatever the Ministry has done, has the government taken action, either in the specific institution or in other museums, so that a similar case doesn't happen? And speaking of Győr, the town immediately began to speculate whether such a series of crimes could be carried out without the help of the local political elite. In particular, this is interesting in the light of the fact that the municipal campaign has revealed that the Fidesz Győr city administration controls the county seat by using mafia methods, and I am thinking of the practice of selling corrupt audio fields, orgies that occasionally cost millions of forints and the displacement of the local decent entrepreneurial layer. In addition to these, it is indeed a legitimate question of what role Fidesz has played and what they have done since then. I'm looking forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. A statement from Jobbik: They spent it on the Adriatic! Cheap wine.]]
u2019-11-25-34	Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-11-25-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think the most important thing for everyone, including the government, is that the case should be fully explored as soon as possible, and that all artifacts, all artifacts, all cultural values should be returned to where they were exhibited earlier. [[12.30]] Therefore, as you said, on the one hand, there is a criminal prosecution conducted by the National Alert Police Bureau, and we are obviously confident that they will be able to trace these various cultural values as soon as possible. But at the same time, of course, the Ministry also launched its own investigation; on the one hand, in order to prevent later cases and, on the other hand, to give other institutions a good example of how to prevent such cases from happening. On the one hand, this can be done legally by asking the museum for a plan of action, precisely because of what it does with immediate effect, so that no other similar case can happen, and on the other hand another professional procedure, called a museum inspection investigation, has been launched in relation to the collection of medals involved in the crime. The investigation is still ongoing, it has not yet been completed, obviously it could not have been completed in such a short time. Of course, after the case was brought to light, the EMMI also asked the museum for full information, which led to the start of the request for the action plan and the start of the museum supervision procedure. We all hope, I think, that you, too, that we can prevent any similar incident from happening, and that the police can return these very important artifacts to the museum. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-25-36	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Sándor Szabó, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: Why does the Government not ensure that there is enough vitamin K that is needed for the development of children? You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-11-25-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The news exploded in the spring that vitamin K has disappeared from the shelves of Hungarian pharmacies, which is important because it is an essential vitamin for newborns, since it plays a huge role in clotting. The lack of this may, in serious cases, also lead to a stroke in newborns. Again, the news in November is that there is also a huge shortage of this vitamin. Then, by the way, we managed to solve the situation somewhat, we managed to obtain 58,000 cans of vitamins, now it seems that this set has disappeared since then. Then you obviously told me here in Parliament that the government has no direct competence in this, and in fact within the European Union, the independence of the pharmaceutical authority is guaranteed by special legal guarantees. However, here is 28/2015. However, the Government Decree No.1 concerns the fact that the National Institute for Pharmacy and Food Health is a central budgetary body operating as a central office under the authority of the Minister for Health. And if that is the case, then I think that they do have some insight and responsibility in this matter. If this problem came up again here in November, then I think that the government should be more responsible in this matter. So I confirm my comment, which I said in June, although, of course, I am aware that purchasing can be difficult by a number of factors, but it is essential for the safety of newborns to accept a vitamin, I think that it cannot be accepted. In view of the above, I would like to ask the Minister once again: for how long is there enough vitamin K in domestic pharmacies? How could it have been that after the vitamin K deficiency in the spring, the acquisition of the vitamin could again be a problem? And the main question is that you can expect to find a satisfactory solution to this issue for the future. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2019-11-25-38	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-11-25-39	Thank you very much. I think it is important for everyone to really have enough vitamin K supplies, for all newborns, for all families, to have them, and therefore the OGYÉI, the National Institute for Pharmacy and Food Health are constantly working to ensure that sufficient vitamin K or Konakion is available in its full name. I already informed you in writing on 19 June, but ever since then OGYÉI has been working on how to deal with any problems. The OGYÉI has the means to do so by granting so-called quota licences for the import of necessary quantities of foreign substitution products, and of course it has done so. Thus, the import of wholesalers can take place not only from Germany but also from France, Italy, the Czech Republic and Romania as a result of new quota of vitamin K. Thus, the supply is continuous, so the new authorisation allowed 110,000 ampoules of the two milligram pack and 50,000 of the larger active ingredients, or 50,000 ampoules, to arrive in Hungary. The reason for the previous problem was that due to the delay in printing Hungarian package leaflets, wholesalers were unable to deliver their entire stocks from warehouses for quality assurance reasons. This may have caused a temporary problem, but by now sufficient amounts of vitamin K are available everywhere, and, as I said, they could be imported from several other countries. However, if you are quite rightly so committed to administering vitamin K, and you were talking about responsibility, it is all our responsibility, I ask you to speak to your ally, Péter Márki-Zay, who, in his wife's public statements, said that there is hydrochloric acid in the Konakion, and that we put it in the children's mouth, and that is dangerous, and he encouraged parents to stay away from it. I would kindly ask you to represent this responsibility not only towards OGYÉI, but also towards your own party sorority with the same temperament. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-25-40	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Lajos Oláh, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Resources of his people a question: Why doesn't school education help the future generations to survive? It's an address. The floor belongs to Congressman Lajos Oláh.
u2019-11-25-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, You and the presidents of America and Brazil are among the few who deny that there is a climate crisis. There is no statistically bad situation with regard to emissions in Hungary, because the reference point is precisely the time when the mass of outdated and unconventional factories was closed after the change in the system, and in particular you are doing everything you can to make the situation worse. In Hungary there is no longer a Ministry of Environment, and the institution of greenombudsman has been liquidated, solar panels are subject to a special tax, the use of wind power plants is impossible, and Lőrinc Mészáros's loss-making and seriously polluting power plant in Mátra is bought back from Mészáros, so that it does not have to be closed. EU funds for energy-saving housing have been tried for other purposes and the European Council has vetoed the initiative to reduce CO2 emissions. This is not offset by the fact that the President of the Republic sometimes speaks at an environmental conference and takes pictures with carp in his hand. They have also ignored my suggestion that the basic curriculum should focus on knowledge about climate change. Fortunately, young people whose future we are talking about are active without it. They are about to take part in the climate demonstration on Friday, and I would also like to encourage those who have not yet decided: Friday between 12 and 15 o'clock in Batthyány tér and Kossuth tér to take part in the climate demonstration. However, they would need much more basic knowledge to be able to take effective action in the fight against climate disasters both as young people and later as adults. I ask Mr Secretary of State: are you finally willing to give environmental education the place required by the gravity of the situation in the system of public education? Thank you very much.
u2019-11-25-42	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-11-25-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Our Fundamental Law also states that the representatives of Fidesz-KDNP supported by their vote to protect the living conditions of the generations that follow us through the careful use of our natural resources. You did not vote for this, but I do not say to you that you do not want to protect the living conditions of the generation after us, because I do not come from the logic you do, honourable Member. You didn't want to defend the climate in this speech, you just wanted to make the government false. On the other hand, the reality, honourable Member, is that in Hungary today, CO2 emissions per capita are 40 percent lower than in Germany. Today, we have reached the share of renewable energy in Hungary set for 2020, which is why this 13 percent EU target has already been achieved in Hungary, while we have not reached 2020. With the heat at home, we reduced CO2 emissions in 310 thousand households, we plant about 130 thousand tons a year, 50 million trees, and we want to increase the share of Hungarian forests by 6 thousand hectares. Climate protection also appears in geography, biology, physics and chemistry education, honourable Member. [[12.40]] Education is a very important issue that has been raised as to how to make the next generation more environmentally friendly. Not with environmental damage like the ones your party president knows very well about in Motim's case. [[Dr. Lajos Oláh: Mátra Power Plant...]] So under the eco-school program, we have 1050 eco-school programs at school. Sustainability Week [[Zsolt Gréczy: Thank you to the Gyurcsány government...]] which has been launched since 2016, in 1540 schools, 330 000 students participate in environmental action or awareness raising with the support of the government during the sustainability week. Within the framework of the World's Largest Teachership, in 19 exactly 634 schools in 4700 classes [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] we have stressed action against climate change, but I would say that in the pedagogical qualification, the Miracle Deer programme, the Erzsébet camps [[The president's ringing again.]] we are all implementing environmental programmes. These are real programmes that achieve results. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-25-44	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade:. What Hungarian interest is it in the Russian handing in the Dunakes Vehicle Repair? It's an address. Congresswoman Márta Demeter has the floor.
u2019-11-25-45	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Once again, I am going to ask you a question about the project on railway vehicles to be transported to Egypt. By the way, I've asked you in writing for the seventh time and I've asked you twice in word, this is the third time. So far, they've always said empty voices. I really hope I get an answer now. Russian Transmasholding intends to purchase half of Dunakeszi's vehicle repair business, i.e. the Russian company can acquire a majority influence over the Hungarian consortium member, which can transport railway wagons to Egypt. By the way, ownership takes place without competition. You have already failed to respond to my question twice, and you referred to the fact that this project is about the domestic production of 1300 railway wagons, but on the same day Direkt36 wrote about the fact that the Hungarian supplier ratio required for the loan provided by Eximbank will be at least 50 percent so that at least 651 railway wagons from the ordered 1300 will have to be completed in Hungary. It also turned out that the rest will mostly come from Russia, the remaining about 150 will be produced in Egypt, with Russian supervision. So far, you have not been able to answer such important questions, Mr State Secretary, as what is the interest of the Hungarian people, what is the benefit of the Hungarian people. What elements of Egyptian railway wagons will Dunakeszi Vehicle Repair produce? Which companies, what activity, what credit do they receive from Eximbank with the Hungarian taxpayers' money? But since you couldn't answer them once, I'd rather put them in writing, Mr. Secretary of State. Answer one question: according to the announcement by Transmasholding last week, the first type of car will be delivered to Egypt in the first quarter of 2020, i.e. within four months. My question is how much of this 20-30 carriage delivery Hungarian participation is. How many cars are made here in Hungary, how many Hungarians and Hungarian workers are working on this specifically [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] How many Hungarian jobs have been created? Thank you.
u2019-11-25-46	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Tamás Menczer, State Secretary, answers the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-11-25-47	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It saddens my heart to say such things, to receive empty voices in response [[Márta Demeter's intervention.]] Despite the fact that we have already tried to answer Mr. Minister of Foreign Affairs, my colleague of State Secretary Levente Magyar and myself. I would also like to draw attention in the voice of the greatest respect to the fact that the problem is not always in the tax, sometimes it is worth examining the buyer. You say you don't get any facts, honourable Member. Let's see the facts. Fact one. This project, which you mentioned, is the largest project ever made by the construction of railway vehicles in Egypt. You are correct in saying the second fact when you say that there are 1300 railway wagons on the basis of an order from Egypt. Fact three. We're talking more than a billion dollars, about a billion dollars in $70 million. Fact four. The trade agreement has already been signed, and the credit agreement is expected to be signed by the end of this year. For the record, a lot of information is not allowed before the credit agreement is signed. Once the credit agreement is signed, more information will be permitted under the law. Fact five. The financing is provided by the Hungarian Eximbank and the Russian Export Credit Insurance. Fact six. Indeed, it is true that at least 50 percent of Hungarian origin products will be in the project, even because according to the legislation, the Hungarian Eximbank can only finance projects where the Hungarian proportion reaches at least 50 percent. The following is the fact concerning the purchase of the Dunakeszi Vehicle Repair. In the company that plans to buy this, the French ownership ratio is very significant, so its Russian phobia is not worth feeding in this respect. And the last fact is that this is good for the Dunakess Vehicle Repair because it can reach markets that it could never otherwise reach through Transmasholding. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties. Márta Demeter: Fourth time I will...]]
u2019-11-25-48	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance:. Will the Hungarian Government cooperate with the European Union in order to reduce the tax evasion of multinational companies? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-11-25-49	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, On Thursday, 28 November, the Competitiveness Council of the European Union will discuss the country-by-country public reporting directive. The tax avoidance of multinational companies is estimated by the European Commission to cause damage to EU Member States by EUR 50-70 billion per year, which is the same as the total Hungarian budget. The directive would make the operation of multinational companies more transparent, making it easier to get them to pay taxes. We know that Hungary is facing serious competitiveness problems today. [[Tamás Menczer: Yes? You're kidding.]] Of the 28 EU Member States, we are only the 24th according to the World Economic Forum ranking. The recent publication draws attention to the fact that Bulgaria is about to overtake us. The reason for the weak competitiveness is that the government does not invest in human capital, human capital. They don't spend enough money on education, health care, social goals. The Fidesz government prefers to attract multinational large companies with gigantic state aids and tax benefits. For example, the planned state aid for the investment of Samsung Sdi in Gödi is so much that the European Commission has launched an investigation on it. This means 30 million forints a day at work. It's a factory where mostly guest workers will work, and the construction of which is opposed by the locals, yet it's built. This is your vet horse. I would like to express my hope that, beyond gigantic subsidies, amazing tax incentives and tax tax tax rates, the Fidesz government is not trying to bring foreign capital into our country by passively helping them avoid tax. Mr. Secretary. What will be the Hungarian position at the Competitiveness Council on the proposal for a country-by-country public reporting directive? In English: did Fidesz support the stopping of tax evasion of international corporations? The Dialogue is on people's side. Fidesz doesn't want to serve the capital against us, does he? I'm waiting for your answer. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2019-11-25-50	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The question is answered by Mr András Tállai, Deputy Minister. You have the floor.
u2019-11-25-51	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Hungary plays an active role in the fight against international tax evasion. We are exchanging information on tax matters with more than 100 countries, and we are among the first to transpose the rules allowing automatic exchange of information on financial accounts, which create automatic information flows with more than 90 countries. We are also involved in the international exchange of so-called country-by-country reports containing the data of the multinational companies mentioned on this issue, in which we are related to more than 60 countries. By doing so, the activities of multinational companies cannot remain hidden from the tax authorities. We support the general objective of the proposed public reporting directive by country, greater transparency in corporate taxation, tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning. However, we do not support it from the outset and we will not support the current form of the proposal at the Competitiveness Council because of the wrong legal basis. Moreover, a significant part of the Member States do not support it. Since the content of the proposal relates to tax issues, it is therefore appropriate not to negotiate it in the context of the amendment of the Accounting Directive but as a tax issue in the Working Group on Taxation. Honourable Congressman, We also support anti-tax evasion rules in the European Union, and in the last five years we have taken over the rules of all anti-tax avoidance directives. We are also actively involved in international anti-tax evasion processes and in all relevant international organisations and fora. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]] [[12.50]]
u2019-11-25-52	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mária Kállai, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Defence:. In the framework of the Zrínyi 2026 Defence and Defence Development Program, what further improvements are expected in Szolnok to increase the defence capability, and at what rate? It's an address. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-11-25-53	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Hungary is one of the safest countries in Europe today, and in preserving this, I think we can agree that the Hungarian Defence Forces have a key role to play. In the history of Szolnok, the military played a major role, so at present MH 86. To Szolnok Helicopter Base, the MH 2nd Warrior, Árpád Bertalan Special Purpose Brigade. It provides work for many people, belongs to Szolnok's identity, and, of course, besides military service, it has always played a decisive role in the city's public life, culture and sport. With the program Zrínyi 2026, the largest and most comprehensive reform of the last 25 years has been launched, which also seriously affects the garrison in Szolnok. The defense portfolio has promised that our country will undergo a rapid and effective development of forces. The Hungarian Defence Agency's air transport capabilities, helicopter capabilities, armor-piercing and artillery capabilities will be further developed, they will acquire anti-aircraft missile systems, and they will also strengthen the special operational capability and military police capability. We are pleased to see that, as part of this, the Szolnok base is also affected by significant improvements. Thank you for the complex industrial repair of the existing, expired helicopters, the six Mi-24P and the same number of Mi-24V helicopters, as well as their intention to expand the fleet. So last week, fine, as promised, the first two Airbus H145 M helicopters arrived on Szolnok. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State what further improvements are expected to be made in our city, Szolnok, in order to increase the defence capability within the framework of the programme for defence and military development. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-25-54	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr István Németh Szilárd answers the question. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2019-11-25-55	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Zrínyi is a comprehensive, real and tangible technical and skill development of the Hungarian Defence and Defence Development Program, focusing on the Hungarian military. Our aim is to enable our soldiers to perform their responsible service with modern equipment and training, modern military technology, decent conditions and competitive salary to defend their country. One of the main locations for the development of the Zrínyi 2026, Szolnok, is a real military city, as the Szolnok helicopter base will host twenty new Airbus H145 M helicopters from which the first two copies have already arrived, as the representative said. Two more planes follow the two helicopters in order this year, then 12 helicopters arrive in 2020 and 4 helicopters arrive at the base in 2021. The development also includes the training of personnel, the expansion of their technical knowledge and the development of infrastructure and technical tools that are essential for the proper operation of helicopters. Infrastructural developments are closely linked to the programme "Modern Cities" which also contributes to boosting the labour market in the area, creating new jobs, and thus to the livelihood of families living in and around Szolnok. At the same time, developments affect not only the helicopter base, but also the brave Bertalan Special Purpose Brigade and the NATO Special Operations Command to be established on Szolnok. As the name of the programme shows, we plan to implement these developments until 2026. And as the developments show, which you have already reported, the defence wants to become a decisive force in Europe, and Szolnok will be one of the winners of this development programme, the dominant garrison. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-25-56	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Anita Kotocsáné Kőrösi, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister without a wallet in charge of national wealth management:. Can the Balatonvilágos continue to have access to the Lake Balaton, or after the expropriation of the Rákosies, the village's Lake Balaton is closed for good? It's an address. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-11-25-57	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, It is not the first time that I have brought this issue to the House, because you can see the trend in Balatonvilágos and the whole of Lake Balaton. The 37 hectares of the 47-hectare Balatonvilágos area are already in the interest of Mészáros and Tiborcz, as the ownership network now exercises the rights that were taken from the Balatonvilágos. I would like to ask you about the remaining area of 10 hectares, as it is now in the management of state assets and is currently being exercised by the municipality. But what happens next? What's gonna happen to this 10-acre area? In particular, this concerns the fact that the Aligai Bath Association has turned to the Prime Minister's Office in connection with the TNM Regulation and has written an open letter to Deputy State Secretary Zsolt Füleki that there is already a tendency to see a very short coastline in Balatonvilágos. What is your purpose in this area? After all, trends are clear. In particular, because the owner of the current port, the owner with the right to rent, said that the closure of the port, the closure of the pier and thus the free-coastal promenade will be closed from the Balatonvilágos and the Hungarian people. This has not yet been denied by the owners. So it is a legitimate question of what opportunities Balatonvilágos will have for these areas. What does the Hungarian state intend to do with this 10 hectares area? Are you still in financial management? Does Lake Balaton belong to everyone or to Mészáros and Tiborcz? I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-25-58	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State János Fónagy. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-11-25-59	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and My answer to your previous question on this subject remains relevant. The Hungarian State has not yet decided on the issue of state-owned real estate and asset management contracts that form the Club Aliga. With regard to the abolition of the right of trust in the part of state-owned property managed for which the municipality of Balatonvilágos has submitted a request for free ownership, negotiations with the trustee of the area are still ongoing. Here I would like to summon you to the trustee, Pro-Mot Hungária Kft. a written statement by a company in my hand stating that it has not entered into an unauthorised investment or plans to build a parking lot or other facilities at the expense of green surfaces. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] I can assure you, Congresswoman, that whatever measures may be taken either by the regional trustee or by the port chartering undertaking, those concerned may do so only in compliance with the rules and in accordance with the relevant provisions. I would like to inform you that, apart from the municipality's request for free ownership, there is no other consultation or procedure in this area at Magyar Nemzeti Vagyonkezelő Zrt., so for the time being only the municipal request is in hand. Furthermore, no application for authorisation of building activities under a property management contract was received by the owner. Let's hope for the best. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-25-60	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Interior:. Why did the Government remain silent about the gas explosion in the Bishop's Lady? It's an address. Secretary Tibor Pogácsás will answer. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2019-11-25-61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, As you know, last Monday morning there was a gas explosion in Bishop's Lady. Around 3:00 a.m., the underground pipe exploded, then caught fire and burned with a great flame. The explosion was so strong that the noise and the light woke up the residents in the area, some of whom ran out of their homes, and later, according to the news, several left the settlement. [[13.00]] In the surrounding streets, the blinds melted, and the nearby round bales caught fire. But even where I live, 15 kilometers from Bishop's Lady, the explosion caused alarms and the fire itself. In fact, I can say that even in Debrecen, Debrecen, about 50 kilometers from Bishop's College, they detected the explosion. Turns out there was a crack in the wire, which caused a total loss of hundreds of millions of forints. Despite continuous maintenance and control, the rupture of a pipe that had been established a few decades ago may have led to reasons within the system. Experts are incomprehensible to the events, such an internal fault in the gas pipes is not even remembered for a likely accident. Here I would like to thank the firefighters and the disaster management for the effective and rapid intervention that we saw at that time of dawn, and for this no greater tragedy happened. But what we've seen over the last week is that the government hasn't spoken about the case. To this day, we do not understand how, after such a catastrophic situation, the government can remain silent. The primary task of the government would be to reassure the public, to share information with them, and to tell them what you know about the case. It hasn't happened to this day. I ask the Secretary of State what they know about the case, why they have not spoken and when they wish to reassure the residents of Hajdú-Bihar County. I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary. [[Dr. Gurmai Zita and Kocsis-Cake Olivio applaud.]]
u2019-11-25-62	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. As I said, the answer will be given by Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-11-25-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In Hungary, disaster protection legislation ensures that both personal and physical and legal conditions are in place so that if disaster situations occur, disaster protection activities can be started as quickly as possible and in the shortest time, and the necessary intervention can take place. That's how it happened on November 18. The disaster response alerted the firefighters after the signal received, and the firefighters put out the fires after the gas pipeline had been cut off. Even after the gas pipeline was phased out, the necessary gas volumes were available both in the region and throughout the country, so that the failure of this gas pipeline did not cause or cause any problems in the transport of gas. The technical standards of the Hungarian gas transport system are world-class, and when obtaining the necessary permits for installation and operation, very strict conditions must be met, and regular monitoring is required during operation as well. On the basis of the first expert studies following the gas pipeline explosion, it can be said that there was no criminal activity or phenomenon, so the investigation will continue; both technical, organisational and management-related operators and authorities are also under investigation. If the tests are completed and we have an accurate picture of what caused the gas explosion, the necessary measures will be taken by the authorities accordingly. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-25-64	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question:. Do the Fidesz understand the message of the municipal election? The Orbán government does not want to strangle the cities controlled by the opposition. The floor is for Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, and State Secretary Balázs Orbán will answer. Here you go.
u2019-11-25-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, It is not enough that the skeletons of former Fidesz city administration cases are falling out in many parts of the country, and the worrying news that the Orbán government is trying to strangle the infidelized settlements to the regime is coming to order. Unknown debts left behind by Fidesz mayors, deficits, million-dollar commitments left on paper, shredded papers stuffed in sacks. Other than that, whole divisions were paid off on taxpayers' money, wasting public money. However, while the often dirty past work is being done in these weeks, months in cities and districts taken over by the opposition coalition, worrying news also comes that they want to force cities to use their tax revenues, for example, only for local transport, as a way out of the state's responsibility for maintenance, while causing financial problems in these settlements, which cannot sacrifice these funds for other important functions. Theaters in Budapest are concerned about the former Tao support to receive special support for the museums of the Fidesz-handed cities, and they do not guarantee the conditions of operation for the opposition. Existing improvements should be made, for example, in hospitals in the capital, but they also fall behind, while they have been trying to project light into people's faces with a super hospital that has not been recovered for nine years and has not yet been cut to a single bite. It is feared that Fidesz and the Orbán government would blackmail the leaders of lost cities and districts with such cunning and withdrawal of funds. Maybe you're hoping these cities won't find out about the Fidesz cases? What guarantee can you give us that while talking about a fair partnership, they will stop kicking underwater? Today 3.5 million Hungarians have no Fidesz mayor. They can't be punished just because they didn't vote for Fidesz. I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply.
u2019-11-25-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Balázs Orbán, State Secretary, answers the question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-11-25-67	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The thing is, I can see that everyone's starting with themselves, and you're starting with government performance and municipal performance by yourself and your fellow parties. Fortunately, the performance of the Fidesz city leaders and the Fidesz government is completely different. If we are talking about Budapest, after the 20-year-old period of Demszky, it seems, unfortunately, that we are entering the 21st year of the Demszky era, which in the first 20 years meant unrealized developments, corruption, the worst sense of slumification and indebtedness. Let us not talk about the fall of Hungary in the countryside. Compared to this, there are nine years of civilian government, nine years of civilian city leadership for Budapest, which, on the one hand, freed the settlements from the debt trap, brought thousands of billion forints of development resources to these settlements, and implemented them by continuously negotiating and establishing partnerships with all the municipalities. On the day of the municipal elections, although they were won by the governing parties in several places, new opposition leaders were elected by Hungarian citizens, on the first day we guaranteed that this attitude would remain the same after the municipal elections. Nevertheless, we see that in the 21st year of the Demszky era, the left again talks about money paid to each other, corruption, unlaunched investments, instead of stadium stop, hospital stop and museum stop. We're really worried about this. At the same time, city leaders will have at their disposal all the capabilities and conditions available to former city leaders. Tax revenues had to be used in the interests of cities as defined by law. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-25-68	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior: "How to reduce the number of domestic violence? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, on behalf of the Minister for Human Resources Miklós Kásler, who is responsible and competent on the subject, Bence Rétvári will answer the question. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-11-25-69	Ladies and gentlemen, Today is the World Day for the Elimination of Violence Against Women. Relationship violence against women is an extremely important human rights, health and social problem in Hungary. Public policy has never considered this to be a major problem, despite the fact that in Hungary more women, children, are subject to physical and/or sexual violence or abuse than they have recourse to these authorities. [[13.10]] There has been little research and data collection on the subject in Hungary, and there is a lack of information and knowledge, even for law enforcement bodies. In addition, the stereotyping of relationship violence is characteristic of public opinion and a wide range of professionals. The number of qualified, sensitive and trained professionals is minimal. Mr. Secretary, please answer my questions. Are you aware of the reasons for domestic violence, inter-relationship violence, and what can the government do to reduce their numbers? Are you planning to tighten the penalties for abuse for the government, especially for violence against women and children? In the hierarchy of various law enforcement agencies, can authoritarianism override impartiality, justice? Do you have any idea how many cases don't go to justice or court? How could the support system be strengthened so that cases can be brought to the surface as much as possible and those who have been abused can receive help and support? Finally, instead of the Istanbul Convention, how does the government ensure the strengthening of pre-relationship institutions? Thank you very much.
u2019-11-25-70	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. State Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer the question of the Member. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-11-25-71	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I think everyone feels that it is an important obligation to take action in the event of any kind of relationship violence, in all other cases of violence, and in the case of relationship violence. That is why the ruling party submitted in 2013 a motion which had already inserted this fact into the Criminal Code before the new Criminal Code entered into force. At the time, this bill was voted in favour by the pro-government representatives, and opposition representatives did not support this proposal amending the rules of criminal law at that time. So I think that credibility in this regard is important, who has acted with his vote on this matter. You were not a Member at the time, but your opposition fellow Members did. What you have indicated is how to act, so that as little as possible, this must not only be done by means of criminal law; financial resources and surplus resources must also be used. For this reason, next year's budget will also include additional support in the budget, HUF 150 million in additional support in this area, and we will use HUF 3 billion in development resources to prevent anyone from becoming a victim. There are four main areas: the expansion and development of the supply system, prevention, training of professionals and social thinking. In 2010, there were 12 crisis centers, today is 20. In 2010, there were 4 halfway houses, now there are 21. Now there are also 8 secret safe houses and 7 crisis clinics, all in different ways, some shorter, some in the longer term, but they help those who would be in such a situation. With the help of 17 organizations, we try to prevent victimisation through the development of the protection net, with the help of 17 organizations, we spend 1.16 billion forints on the development of crisis management service providers to ensure that the victim support and care system is as good as possible, and we have started 5 000 training courses at the child protection signalling system, of which 1550 people will be created this year. Turn me on straight away. There is an application, an app that can be downloaded on a mobile phone, with which anyone can use the panic button to call the telephone provider, and it also contains information about the nearest facilities, but we also have a lot of other developments that help this group. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-25-72	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture: "Are people in danger in the environment of the Mátra Power Plant? It's an address. I would like to inform the Member that Mr Sándor Farkas, Minister of State, will respond. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-25-73	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In August this year, it was discovered that something was seriously polluting Tarna and Bene Creek. Both streams were pitch black. I immediately asked the Minister of the Interior to find out what had happened. The Home Minister's reply revealed that pollution was owned by Viresol Kft., owned by Lőrinc Mészáros. It comes from one of its reservoirs. According to the public's signals, stream pollution and cases of gas with stinging odours have been repeated regularly since August. Gergely Gulyás on the government info can tell you that everything is fine, there is nothing wrong here, but everyone can see a stream of industrial juice that is foaming and turning into ash grey, and everyone can smell the stingy smell in the settlement. It's not normal that the company didn't call for disaster control. They went out for a residential announcement. The fact is that serious industrial pollution is likely to occur at Viresol Kft. It's a mistake. Please inform us how long the authorities have known about the formation and training of hydrogen, nitric oxide and phosphorus hydrogen in the environment of this company. What steps, obligations have been taken or required by the authorities to reduce environmental and health damage? Why don't you take a stand against the company like you did with László Bige's factory? What were the costs of inspections and compensation so far? Who financed the necessary interventions? Please answer exactly the questions, because the local people would very much like to know what's going on. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2019-11-25-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Sándor Farkas, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Here you go.
u2019-11-25-75	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You have asked as many questions as you can of course not answer in two minutes, but I will try to inform you objectively of the following. First of all, I would stress that the government, with the assistance of the competent territorial authorities, is monitoring the state of the environment as provided for in the legislation and taking the necessary measures in the event of exceptional environmental pressures. Mátrai Erőmű Zrt. Following the announcements made in connection with its reservoir and pollution of the Bene Creek, the regional disaster protection body immediately started the measurements using a mobile laboratory. The measurements are ongoing and will continue as long as necessary. The Heves County Disaster Protection Directorate issued a communication on 12 November and 15 November to inform the public that, according to instrumental measurements, a gas with sulphur and phosphorus content developed in the site's technological reservoir, most likely due to the degradation of organic matter collected in the reservoir. The gas released was a powerful smell, but it did not pose a threat to the population. The measurements did not show a dangerous limit for the health of people living in the surrounding settlements. The disaster management body informed the representatives of the municipality and the public about this. The measurements are Mátrai Erőmű Zrt. in its territory, the company has taken the necessary measures on the basis of the results to prevent and reduce water pollution and to prevent the transfer of water to air. Local representatives of Detk and Visonta, residents of the interested settlement, could follow the results of these measurements on the spot. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-25-76	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman János Bencsik, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. What further improvements are to be made within the framework of the National Expansion Programme? It's an address. I would like to inform you, Congressman, that Secretary of State Sándor Farkas is responding to you. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-25-77	Dear Secretary of State, In November, the national wooding programme was launched, with more than 550 hectares of new forest planted by the state's forests, using 2 million woodlings and almost a hundred tons of acorns. 86 municipalities and a number of civil society organisations indicated their intention to participate in the programme. In order to strengthen Community participation in the wooding, the government has significantly increased the amount of support available under the rural development programme. As my fellow Members know, the negative effects of climate change are significantly reduced by forest-covered areas, as trees naturally bind the carbon dioxide in the air and have a positive impact on the microclimate of the urban environment. This is also due to the fact that the national climate change strategy adopted a year ago, as well as the action plans that have been prepared since then, has also led to a paradigm shift in forestry, and meeting climate targets has become a priority. [[13.20]] As a result of the coordinated work, 220,000 woodlings are planted on about 60 hectares at my place of service in Komárom-Esztergom County, including the Tata basin, during the current installation season. The programme also draws attention to the importance of adaptation to climate change, as well as the participation of well-known artists selected for planting trees. That is why I am asking the Minister how the Government intends to continue to help the long-term functioning of the nationalisation programme and, in turn, to strengthen forestry as a natural gustling sector. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-25-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Farkas. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-11-25-79	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In the near future, the Ministry of Agriculture will launch a wooding programme in three areas and have already started it in part. Most of our forestable free areas are privately owned, so we consider it the most important to encourage farmers in weak agricultural areas; they are helped by the amendment of the rural development programme, by increasing the support for forestry by 80 and 130 percent. During the autumn, interest has already increased significantly, and thousands of hectares of forest planting plans have been started. The second important area is support for municipal woodings. Our first task here is to raise awareness that local authorities can also apply for support for the rural development programme for forestry; the expertise of state forestry is also offered to them. In addition, from the framework of the Hungarian National Network for Rural Development we will launch a HUF 500 million programme to promote tree planting in municipal areas and municipal institutions. We have also started preparing programmes for the wooding of brownfield areas. Third, we are launching funding programmes in public areas. We will continue to install 550 hectares in the areas of public forestry in the coming years, surveying areas that have become redundant for defence use, and we have started negotiations with the ITM to launch road constructions. As a result of the current start-up of the national logging programme, we are expected to increase our forest areas by around 25,000 hectares in five years, which can be estimated to be between 300 and 350 thousand tonnes of carbon dioxide. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-25-80	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: It's an address. Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2019-11-25-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I've brought you another list of names from Kisvárda: Hlib Szaharda, Vladyslav Ivancho, Yaroslav Helesh, Artem Nahirnij, Oleh Shokun, Serhii Gritsu, Illia Popovych, Ivan Lukecha, Maksym Babych, Valentyn Napuda, Ivanicja Maxim Vasilovich, Ivan Romanchuk, Kristiano Kovalchyn, and I'm running out of time. They are not the new certifications of the adult team, but the Ukrainian-speaking members of the local supply. In Kisvárdán not only the adult team is full of foreigners, but also the reinforcements. But, ladies and gentlemen, how can it be allowed, from the Tao support for the development of supplies, to pay attention now, to raise foreign players with Hungarian public money, to take the place away from Hungarian talent? According to the Fidesz government, as we learned from the former Secretary of State of Szabó Tünde, the number of confirmed competitors and the development of sports facilities are a measure of the effectiveness of the Tao system. We do not agree on this, because they are only tools, but they are not a goal and are not a measure of successful replacement development. Dear Secretary of State, You didn't answer my questions before, so I'm going to ask you again: what kind of professional work is going on in Kisvárda? Exactly how many children who are only foreign nationals will the Fidesz government grant Tao support? And on what national interest do they finance the education of foreign players and clubs where they give the opportunity to the weak-talented foreigners instead of the Hungarian talent? We're waiting for your professional response.
u2019-11-25-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-11-25-83	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The effectiveness of the Tao system introduced is shown by a number of things. One measure is that in the visual team sports in the six team sports we are talking about in the Tao system, how many certified athletes there were in 2010 and how many certified athletes there are now: 213 thousand before the Tao system started and increased to 450 thousand thanks to the Tao system. So this is a rather significant increase, more than doubled, and not only in visual team sports, but also in other sports, the number of certified athletes increased and thus increased to over half a million people. I think it's a huge achievement, and without the Tao, we would never have achieved it, then we'd be somewhere around 250,000; now we're half a million around. This is a huge step forward not only from the point of view of Hungarian sports, but also for young people to have a purpose in life to become athletes, or for their purpose in life to play sports every day, not because they want to be top athletes, but because they love sports, and so they will obviously be able to spend several years in health, to preserve their health better. I don't need to tell you how many other positive effects sport has on team spirit, self-discipline, willpower. This is where we managed to double this number. [[Noise, interruptions from opposition lines.]] And I don't think it's a failure to see more young people and more adults playing sports. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] On the other hand, there were destroyed sports events, on which our ancestors put all sorts of strategies on the table, and then there was nothing, or there were demands to create new sports facilities. Today, if you travel around the country many times, you can see that newer, smaller, larger, medium-sized sports facilities have been set up and there is a place for young people and everyone else to play sports; I think these are good and important advances. If you would exclude certain citizens from the possibility of sports in Hungary, you should submit a bill or do something else as a Member of Parliament. We want as many people as possible to play sports in Hungary, and that is why we have the Tao system. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-25-84	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gyula Molnár, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance: "Hungary is the paradise of migrant workers? It's an address. I would like to inform the Member that the Secretary of State, Mr András Tállai, will answer you. Here you go.
u2019-11-25-85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, As if the great director had arranged it, I would like to continue the thought of my fellow Member Steinmetz in a slightly broader context, not only narrowly on the football team in Kisvárda, but how good it is that you will respond! So, while you are fighting a very serious battle everywhere against economic immigrants, mass migration, extremely great fighters, we are surprised to see the various figures of the Directorate-General for Foreign Police: while in the previous year there were 109 professions where work could be secured without permission, today this has become 119 professions, where foreign nationals can be employed without authorisation. Compared to 2017, the number of workers from abroad increased dramatically: it was 11 464 at the time, last year it was over 34 thousand, and until September this year it was 31 thousand. For the sake of the audience and the audience, I say that the number of Indian migrant workers has come up to the fourth place, there are nearly 2,000 Indian migrant workers. I myself spoke to an entrepreneur in my constituency who told me that they were very reliable workers. It's just the real question, Mr. Secretary, and that's what my question is, what the government is planning to do. What have you planned and what do you think will be done in the coming years to stop a very serious shortage of workers? When do you admit that you are virtually incapable of dealing with a serious shortage of workers in certain professions? Thank you very much.
u2019-11-25-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-11-25-87	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Of course, Hungary is not a paradise for migrant workers [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] As you put it in your question. [[13.30]] It will not become one, because the quota system protecting the domestic labour market does not allow an unlimited number of third-country nationals to work in our country. The quota for 2019 is 57 thousand. The number of non-EU migrant workers employed in Hungary is thus recorded in this number. The quota is calculated by means of statutory automation, taking into account labour demand a year earlier. If I may, I would like to remind you of the period before 2010 when unemployment was twice higher in Hungary and the employment rate in Hungary was significantly lower, yet the number of migrant workers was over 60,000. That's right, you steered. Hungary, the Hungarian economy and the domestic labour market have now changed fundamentally, as economic growth is one of the fastest in Europe and the employment rate in Hungary has never been so high since the regime change, while unemployment is among the lowest in the 28 Member States. However, instead of installing third-country nationals, government policy focuses on the search, activation, training and strengthening of the family support system. To this end, a number of policy measures have been taken over the past period to help domestic businesses adapt to effective labour management [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] to preserve and improve their competitiveness. Thank you very much for your patience. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-25-88	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Member László Varju, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister without a wallet in charge of managing the national assets, who pays for the money and, above all, how much will it cost? It's an address. I would like to inform the Member that Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, will respond. Mr László Varju has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-11-25-89	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Recently it was announced that the Hungarian Electricity Works are buying Lőrinc Mészáros's company, and they are negotiating the purchase agreement of the Mátra Power Plant. The power plant was purchased two years ago by Lőrinc Mészáros in the hope of a serious profit.In 2015-16, the operation achieved more than HUF 20 billion, and then, after the loss, it reached HUF 15 billion, and now suddenly the state comes to its aid. I'm sure it's a problem for a business, but that's what happens. I could say to Jimmy Ears, if you've been stabbing me, sir, you're gonna have to bear the consequences. So if such an undertaking is loss-making, will the State come to the aid of all of Hungary's businesses? Because then I understand the activity, but in view of its loss, the entrepreneur in question had already received state aid of HUF 7 billion before then, and especially if it has long been known that the plant needs reconstruction and large-scale renovations within a short period of time, on which the previous owner created a substantial reserve, but the new farmer took out a profit of HUF 11 billion from the loss-making company. Therefore, I would like to ask you, Mr Secretary of State, do you consider this series of transactions compatible with fair competition on the market? Along with the purchase price, additional losses, renovation costs, how much will it cost taxpayers to have Lőrinc Mészáros temporarily involved in this story? What's his profit on this story? Finally, I would like to ask you about the fate of the solar power plant previously present in the power plant, where it went from who became the owner of it. Thank you very much. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2019-11-25-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-11-25-91	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, according to the information provided by Opus Global, the company and the Status Energy Private Equity Fund signed a letter of intent with Magyar Város Művek Zrt. on 19 November 2019. In this regard, the parties stated that negotiations were opened on the sale by the Company and the Status Energy Private Equity Fund of a 72,66% indirect ownership share of the Mátra Power Plant and the purchase by MVM. In connection with the corporate transaction you referred to, the search of the target company is ongoing. As a stock exchange company, I have to follow strict rules of communication. From 18 March, Mátra Holding Energy Zrt. under the majority control of Opus Global. 72.66 per cent, the MVM group holds 26.15 per cent in the Mátra Power Plant. The power plant is Hungary's only significant domestic primary energy source, based on lignite, the second largest electricity producer in Hungary, the second most important power plant with a total built-in capacity of 966 megawatts. Its production accounts for 18% of domestic electricity production, even if it is lower today due to demand. In view of the assets of lignite, which is an energy reserve for Hungary in an exceptional situation, the power plant is absolutely necessary; otherwise, it currently employs around 2100 people. In order to ensure the continued supply of domestic consumers, we are convinced and convinced that the Mátra Power Plant is still essential in the future, and it is therefore justified that it should be bought back into public ownership. Thank you very much for your patience. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-25-92	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources: what solutions does the government offer to address the shortage of medicines? It's an address. I would like to inform the Member that Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári will respond. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-25-93	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, There are many reasons why a drug may become a missing drug. Due to temporary manufacturing problems that usually resolve after a while. Hungary is a small country and is not focused on manufacturers, and there is a drug price regulation that says that the state wants to buy the medicine at the cheapest price. Unfortunately, this often contradicts the law of the market, and this appears to be confirmed by the list of missing articles. If the medicinal product concerned cannot be purchased by the country concerned in critical mass, a premium should be paid. As regulation does not allow this, manufacturers can resort to several methods: they can, inter alia, withdraw from the market, represent a shortage, in worst cases simply ask for a marketing authorisation cancellation and permanently withdraw the medicinal product from the market. If it is a medicine with which they are monopolised and there are relatively many patients on therapy, the lack of medicine can cause serious problems. Depressan, for example, is a medicine used to treat severe high blood pressure, but also vitamin K, which has already been discussed in today's questions. I ask you, Minister, to answer the following questions: what is the government's plan to identify precisely the causes of the shortage? How do you try to solve the lack of essential medicines in Hungary? Have there been discussions with interest representatives, pharmaceutical companies, various drug market participants? Is there a comparative study on how to solve the problem in other smaller countries with similar populations where there are well-functioning regulations? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you.
u2019-11-25-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-11-25-95	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Your speech, either in the written or in the oral text, did not show that you are here to speak in the interests of individual pharmaceutical companies. [[Uproar and interrogations from the opposition benches.]] Or he's just got a political comment. Honourable Congressman, The aim is precisely to provide all patients with medication as much as possible. This is served by a very serious and decades of existing background institutions. He used to be called OGYI, now he has a slightly longer name, the National Institute of Pharmacy and Food Health, whose task is to continuously examine what supplies of medicines are available, what substitutes are available. [[13.40]] He is the one who keeps in constant contact with both the marketing authorisation holders, manufacturers, wholesalers, hospitals and pharmacies, precisely because there is a risk in the supply of medicinal products. If this occurs, it will also examine, for example, the possibility of importing substitute products. In such cases, it issues the quota authorisation already mentioned today, so that even other countries or substitution medicines can enter Hungary. It also carries out continuous educational work on the form in which treatment may take place in the case of deficiency medications instead. It also provides continuous information, providing all the most important information about medicines on its website. In several cases, he has made use of the legal institution of the post office, precisely so that the medicinal product can be provided in Hungary. A cooperation with the V4 countries was launched, which included, for example, the system of procurement of medicines at government level, since it has a similar problem, such as Slovakia or the Czech Republic, such as Hungary. Poland is slightly larger, so its problems are slightly smaller in this area. So we are looking at the common purchasing opportunities that can increase patient safety, as producers often make it more difficult to deliver certain special medicines in smaller countries because of packaging, accompanying documents, boxes and distribution. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-25-96	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Brenner Koloman, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: "Advantage or megalomania? It's an address. I would like to inform Congressman that Secretary Bence Rétvári will respond. Congressman Brenner Koloman has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-11-25-97	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Thanks to Sándor Lezsák's megalomania, and the taxpayers' money, it seems that the new Supper was built from Lakitelek, as the Lezsák family's dream of the Lakitelek People's College has been realized in many ways since the 1990s. There are very serious and disproportionate investments here, as the Vice-President of Parliament has already received nearly HUF 35 billion of the taxpayers' money for this project in recent years. I say it very slowly, in order for the Secretary of State to understand: Jobbik has always stood up as a national people's party. [[Sándor Font: Traitor!]] He always stood up for the idea of a people's college because, unlike those who shout out at us, it is important to support talented young people from a poorer family. [[Gergely Farkas: Are you nervous?]] However, what is outrageous in our opinion is that the public education support of 3152 Hungarian settlements could have been doubled for three years, my fellow Members, out of the tax-paying money paid to the Lakitelek People's College. It was also possible to arrange for the National Institute of Culture to move here, and then, of course, a new headquarters will be given to the public institution, which will also be built through Lezsák's foundation, from a tight and forints. Then the foam on the cake that next year will receive an additional HUF 18 billion of government support from the Vice-President of Parliament only to build it [[Zsolt Németh: Few!]] The four-star Hungarikum Hotel of his dreams. I also learned recently that the generous Comrade Kasler supported this very noble cause with an extra HUF 21 million. [[Gábor Bányai: Shame on you!]] When, then, will it end that the local Dumpsters of Fidesz rob our country and use our common forints to develop new types of fief estates? [[Gábor Bányai: You're nothing!]] I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-11-25-98	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, I think you should apologize very much for this intersecting label. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: But at first they were fidesz. Dr. Brenner Koloman: I mean, to my fellow Member, Mr Font. You thought about that, didn't you?]] State Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-11-25-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I strongly reject what you have done here in two minutes, Your Honour. We're talking about a man we might not be able to sit here without. You and us both! [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: I'm sure I'd be sitting here.]] About a man who was a key figure in the change of regime. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] (Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: But there was!) Talking about someone who put their own life on it. [[Zsolt Gréczy: The late József Antall could tell a story!]] and risked his own future by being one of the most emblematic actors in the change of regime, calling one of the most emblematic meetings [[Zsolt Gréczy: If József Antall lived, he would tell miracles!]] And then for another 30 years, he tried under every colored government, when he was a right-wing government, even when he was a left-wing government, even when he was a left-wing government, somehow helping the Lakitelek People's College to survive and genuinely represent the same national thought for thirty years. For nine years, Jobbik has failed to express the same political idea. Sándor Lezsák has been successful for thirty years, and not only is he respected in Hungary, he is not only respected in the Carpathian Basin, but he is respected worldwide in diasporaHungarians, and he was helped by the Trans-border and DiasporaHungarians to survive the Lakitelek College when socialist governments were trying to dry him out. József has an Attila Prize, the President of the National Forum, the Bethlen Gábor Foundation, the Mindszenty Society and the founder of the Lakitelek People's College, honourable Member, because it is now a church institution. You made it look so unfair here, as if Sándor Lezsák got this amount. He doesn't get a penny of this. He does not make a living from what is happening there, but seeks to create resources for an institution that is now church-owned, ecclesiastical, and for the National Institute of Culture, and it is in our interest that this works well. It creates resources for it to be a sustainable, truly national culture-enhancing institution. So I strongly reject what you said about one of the emerging freedom fighters in the change of regime, and what you have tried to say in full distortion of the functioning of the foundation, honourable Member. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Talk about the billions, Mr. Secretary of State.]] Indeed, the documents, reception, printing and various leisure activities of the institution that investigates the history of the regime change [[Dr. Brenner Koloman, talk about the billions. I asked him if the ratio was right.]] institutions are created. They give work to 300 people on the spot. We hope that they can truly serve national culture, offering success, spiritual and physical refreshment to everyone in a church institution now. So I guess these two minutes have been a shame. [[Intruder from the benches of Fidesz: That's right!]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: These two minutes were shameful! Zsolt Gréczy: On your knees, on your knees, on your knees, on your knees! A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-25-100	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of Finance a question: why does the government allow the banks to make a profit on the Hungarians? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, State Secretary András Tállai will respond. Congressman Antal Csárdi has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-11-25-101	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, We have good reason to believe that the government is not interested in the fact that the Hungarian banks are simply pulling down the Hungarian people. Do not refer to the bank tax or the transaction tax, because they have simply been charged by the bank to Hungarian citizens. The Hungarian National Bank has already noticed the problem. The central bank pointed out that banking fees are not as high in any European country as they are at home. The bank costs take 1 percent of the income of a less wealthy Hungarian family, and none of the countries are close to this ratio. For example, in Germany it is 0.35%, in Poland and Romania it is 0.23%, which I think is a very plastic comparison. The poor therefore suffer from banking, while in Hungary the profits of the banks were HUF 648 billion in 2018. It's a huge sum, and it's just a Hungarian peculiarity. In Poland, for example, the profits of the banking sector were HUF 1150 billion, which is hardly more than double the Hungarian profit, even though it is a four times bigger market for banks. Meanwhile, banks charge fees that are unfair to borrowers. For example, the credit transfer fee. This fee may be up to 2% of the amount of credit. This is hundreds of thousands of forints in the case of an average house loan today. Certified consumer-friendly housing loans maximize this by 0.75 percent, but even this means tens of thousands of HUF. But what's even more outrageous is the prepayment fee. Today, if someone wants to get rid of their loan and close it, beyond the fact that otherwise the calculation of interest and the calculation of the repayment is calculated by the fact that 80 percent of the total interest amount is paid by debtors up to half the maturity, even with this fee, they are completely unreasonable and unduly burdened by debtors. I would like to ask the government when it finally intends to facilitate the situation of credit applicants rather than any other measures taken so far, and when such unfair and disproportionate charges will be abolished by law. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-25-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State András Tállai. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[13.50]]
u2019-11-25-103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, I would first like to draw your attention to the fact that the European Union's directives regulate all Member States [[Antal Csárdi: Not for Poland?]] in the case of loans granted, the procedures which must be applied uniformly by the Member States, including Hungary. The Hungarian legislation regulates the definition of the APR, i.e. the total rate of charge, in accordance with the European Union's guidelines. The APR shall take into account all the costs that the consumer has to pay in connection with the credit, including the payment of the loan. Banking customers can compare the offers of credit institutions with the help of APR and choose which is more favourable to them. As far as the prepayment fee is concerned, of course, this is not included in the APR, because the fact that someone pays back at some point depends on his own decision and, of course, he has to pay his own costs. The bank can only calculate its repayment according to the credit agreement. At the same time, the law sets a cap on charges that can be charged on early repayment. In the case of consumer loans, in accordance with the relevant Union Directive, the fee shall not exceed 1 per cent of the amount cancelled if the remaining maturity exceeds one year and 0,5 per cent, if the remaining maturity is less than one year. The rate shall not exceed 1,5 per cent of the amount submitted or 2 per cent in the case of a mortgage. As regards the profits of the banks, I would like to make two comments. One is that the amount you have said includes the result of foreign interests, which reduces this result by almost 20 percent. And the second is that Hungary has started to rewrite impairments, which is a Hungarian peculiarity, which means that the economic situation is good, and people can repay again, which the bank takes into account, and this now improves the bank's results. That's how it turned out. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-25-104	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Tibor Bana, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources: "How long will the government limit patient care in the hospital in Körmend?" It's an address. I would like to inform Congressman that Secretary Bence Rétvári will respond. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-25-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, As a Member of Parliament of Jobbik and Vas County, I have always stood by our county's health institutions, including the hospital in Körmend. One of the biggest losers of the last nine years is Hungarian health care. And instead of finishing his spree in the sector and finally starting construction, the government is developing, some press reports say he's moving to a higher level in health promotion. Let me ask you a question, Mr. Secretary. What economic interests lie behind the government's threat to Hungarian health and the lives of Hungarians over the past nine years? While hundreds of billions of people across the country went to prestige investments and corruption around them, the hospital in Körmend lost its independence and the government conducted class closures there. Let me give you an example of why this is dangerous. For example, by ending the maternity ward in Körmend, it takes more than an hour for a pregnant mother at risk in upperps to be transported from her settlement by ambulance to the nearest maternity home on Saturday. This could endanger both your life and your baby's life. According to recent reports of hospital reform, the government is planning another slimming down at the hospital in Körmend, which now affects surgery. In this election campaign, Fidesz promised to expand the hospital's surgical department. How is this in line with the ideas that are now being presented? I ask you, Secretary of State, to give a direct answer to the voters in and around Körmend: did you deceive them in the election campaign when they mentioned capacity expansion, and is the news true that they want to reduce capacity in Körmend? Finally, I appeal to Mr State Secretary for the establishment of a round table with the involvement of health professionals, health unions and parties as soon as possible, where an open debate on the current and future situation of Hungarian health can start with the attention of Hungarian society. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2019-11-25-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-11-25-107	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You said that health care would be a loser of budget laws over the past few years. Mr President, in next year's budget law, which you do not support, we will spend 770 billion forints more on health than we spent in 2010; I will not add it up annually from 2010 to today, this is only one year in 2020 when it will be available for the treatment of patients by 770 billion forints. I think a lot of people would like to be such losers, and it would cost us this much less to spend 770 billion forints more on it. If you're talking about running amok, I don't think you can say that with the hospital. Any party that acts out from 20 percent to 6 percent might have a spree. [[An uproar and interruptions in the ranks of Jobbik. The president's ringing the bell.]] But what happens outside of that may not be true. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Look at the results of the county lists! James Peter: And the mortality data, look at that! Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Look at the results of Jászberény. The president's ringing the bell.]] As far as obstetric and gynecological care is concerned, it is not for the government to decide exactly where and what classes can be maintained in terms of patient safety. In terms of patient safety, there is a minimum number, because for what you mentioned, you specifically mentioned in your question, if there is a more complicated case to be able to provide it, you need a certain minimum number of cases from which your ability to do so could be created by the hospital. Therefore, the obstetrics and gynecology of the medical professional college, as well as assisted reproduction, as all other professional departments, issue a minimum number in this field, which says that 500 births should take place in an obstetric gynecologist's ward every year to guarantee patient safety. Under this number, they believe that the safety and health of mothers and newborns is not guaranteed. Here we talked about 155 and 157 years of birth, which is well below the 500. Therefore, if you look at the clear patient safety position of the professional college, it is not safe to maintain obstetric gynecology with such birth numbers, which is why births have been transferred to a place where the annual birth rate is over two thousand. Thank you very much. [[Tell me something about surgery, Secretary of State.]] And those were false news that you quoted, honourable Member. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-25-108	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, It's 13 hours and 57 minutes, so we're done with the questions. It's time for immediate questioning. Dear Parliament, Congressman Péter James, leader of the Jobbik Group, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How long does the Government take advantage of people's patience? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Gergely Gulyás Prime Minister's Head of the Prime Minister's Office in response to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask Mr. Group Leader, accept the person of the responding party or ask the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2019-11-25-109	I don't accept the response.
u2019-11-25-110	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the Member and the House that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Congressman Róbert Dudás, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question, "How long does the Government take advantage of the patience of the people?" It's an address. Here you go, Congressman, you're the word.
u2019-11-25-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, You've just arrived... I'd like to ask you a question about the Mátra Power Plant. Several questions have been asked about this and we have heard quite meaningless State Secretary's replies. I am very confident that you will be able to comfort the people of Mátra rather than me. Allow me to tell you that I am from Heves County, including Matra; from Heves County, where there is the Mátra Power Plant. The Mátra Power Plant has been privately owned for two years, it has been in the hands of the Mészáros Lőrinc, whose operation in the last six months has caused two serious contaminations to be of concern to those living there. When it turned out that the stream was foaming, you said that the first manifestation was that it was just mud. No, please. They said there's absolutely no problem, it's just a rumour. No! Dozens of people got sick. The Minister said on his government brief that there was a rumor, but at the same time the company, the Mátra Power Plant, introduced serious restrictions, and there are parts that cannot be visited only with protective equipment, some where they take the sample from the lake mentioned in rubber clothes. [[14.00]] Just allow me to mention that it is not just a local problem, because through the Bene Creek Tarna, then Zagyva, and then the Tisza can endanger the lives of those living there. The locals are waiting for answers because they're absolutely not calmed down. They expect answers about the level of contamination of the stream, the pollution of their drinking water wells, the pollution of their soils, because they are merely interested in protecting their own living space, their families, their own health. What do you want to do about this? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-25-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2019-11-25-113	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You mentioned earlier that I had the opportunity to answer questions about the Mátra Power Plant in front of the press. I can confirm what I said there was indeed, on one occasion, a border crossing, so the controls clearly demonstrated that there was an excess limit. Since then, the tests have been ongoing. Obviously, the sampling you mentioned has protocol rules, but I can at the same time reassure you and the people in the region that since then, although there have been regular measurements, there has been no abnormalities, there has been no excess limits. Therefore, I ask you to help us to ease the fears caused by the one-off crossing of the limit rather than to maintain it weeks after. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-25-114	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Róbert Dudás. Here you go.
u2019-11-25-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. A man from far away can say whatever he wants. I came from Mátra again this morning, but with you, who is from Budapest; I from Mátra, and people are worried about their lives, their living conditions, their families, their families' health. From his age... I don't know when he was born Minister, but on April 26, 1986, there was a Chernobyl disaster. Then they told people that there was no pollution, that there was no contamination in the air that would endanger their health. The May 1 parade was held by hundreds of thousands, then announced that radioactive material had been released into the air. We don't want another Chernobyl problem or anything like that, and that's why the locals are afraid because they don't get real information. Please, Minister, calm down the Matras. I went to the scene yesterday, and I brought water from the local drinking fountain, which they drank a few years ago, and now it's used to water animals and water plants. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] They're asking if it's healthy. I'm sure your answer would reassure them. I'll give this to you now. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Róbert Hondas is heading towards Gergely Gulyás with a bottle of water.]]
u2019-11-25-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Minister. We'll wait for this sample to be taken, Minister. [[Róbert Honkers gives the bottle to Gergely Gulyás: Enjoy! Gergely Gulyás: Thank you very much.]] Mr. Secretary has the floor.
u2019-11-25-117	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, The Member is yet a new Member of the Parliament, and I am particularly impressed by the fact that someone interprets it as an extension of the powers of their representatives; so far, the authorities have lived by sampling, and the Jobbik fraction may now be involved in the sampling operation. But thank you very much, I will send it to the competent authority, and we will also inform the Member of the results of the measurement. Finally, I would like to reassure you that in the case of a lignite plant, radioactive radiation is excluded. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks.]] So my request is that you do not try to interfere with such information, indeed, with rumors about the people in the region. We can say that, in contrast to the communist dictatorship, especially its Soviet version, today the authorities do their own activities only according to professional protocols. Accordingly, if there is any re-entry of the limit at any time, we will inform the public thereof. Now I can only reassure you, and through you people in the region, that the authorities have not indicated any excess limits in the last few days, even though the measurements are ongoing. Thank you very much. Once again, we will also experiment with water, and we will also inform Congressman about this. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-25-118	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: today there are 27 CTs in Budapest and 23 districts. What else do we do? It's an address. I would like to inform the Congresswoman that Minister has appointed Mr Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I see Congresswoman telling me that she accepts the person who is responding. Thank you very much. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2019-11-25-119	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This is the most cynical answer to a medical question, and Gergely Gulyás gave it to me last week at the government info I just asked. And we can ask from the last few months, years, what makes healthcare work in Hungary, what keeps this thousand-scaring sector alive. If a person meets with primary care or hospital care every day, he will receive the answer. The answer is that the people who work there still give it to you. Doctors, nurses, workers, assistants, surgeons, and, I might add, in many cases, relatives of patients who still operate this system, because they are dedicated and want to heal and nurse. If you see it from your own experience and get to the hospital... allow me to share a last week's experience with you, and specifically now about nurses, what kind of work a nurse is doing in Hungary today. In many cases, he bathes, feeds, administers, cleans, nurses, bed rests, toiletries, diapers, and may still have the strength to pet and smile at the end of the day; not for the salary he receives from you in a humiliating way, but because he is dedicated. And, you know, you're shocked to see him come into Parliament and listen to, say, Mr. Secretary of State's answers, how wonderful the health situation in Hungary today is, and he lists those numbers, and we tell you once a million times that there are always people and human fates behind the numbers. Mr. Secretary, I haven't even told you about the circumstances under which these people work when we listen to them, and they tell us that by the end of the month, they're taking the cleanser to the hospital, and they're taking it in, say, the bubble bath to bathe the patients. Mr. Secretary, when are you going to stop lying and actually admit what a big problem there is in health care today? ! I'm waiting for your answer.
u2019-11-25-120	Thank you. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-11-25-121	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I think that all good people agree with the idea of what kind of work people do when they're doctors and nurses, and they treat all the patients in hospitals. And we also agree with you at the level of words, at the level of action, that this moral recognition must obviously also be expressed in material terms. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You said nice words here, but when you were on the government, you took a month's wages from these people. Is this how you expressed your appreciation for your daily work? You put 6,000 of these people on the street, honourable Member, when 16,000 hospital beds were taken out. Why did you put these people on the street? Why did they cut their pay? Since 2010, we have been working to make sure that we can recognise them as financially as possible. In 2012-13, the first wage increase was 27 percent. Now, in this cycle, a total of 72 percent is the wage increase that is every year in several years, from last year to 22 years, when we try to provide care workers in two installments, because they are the ones who are the most concentrated in raising wages, because their work is very much needed in hospitals, in addition to doctors, of course, for whom we were able to raise their salary by HUF 207 thousand in the previous cycle. And we have managed to renovate more than 70 hospitals in whole or in part, so that the working conditions you spoke about will be better than they were in 2010 or the previous years. [[14.10]] You have improved this by shutting down four hospitals so that there would be no problem with such things, and you wanted to keep patients away from hospital institutions with a visitation fee and a hospital allowance, honourable Member. That was your response to the health problems at the time. And for us, we are already spending HUF 770 billion more a year, including medicines, wages, hospital renovations, than you intended in 2010, honourable Member. Behind the nice words, politicians have actions. Unfortunately, your actions always point in the negative direction. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-25-122	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2019-11-25-123	24 percent of 30-year-olds, 23 percent of 40-year-olds, are missing from sick beds. In the last eight years, nearly 5,000 workers have applied for official certificates to work abroad, and in most cases 30-49-year-olds have used the option. We're talking about the nurses. Secretary of State, you can't be calm, especially when you talk about hospital workers after a week in, or, let's say, I've seen four months in the last year close-up about how hospital care is taking place in Hungary. Secretary of State, come out of the VIP supply and try to go where ordinary people go to hospital or basic care. All you have to do is listen to the problems of these people, the workers and the people inside, or simply don't listen, just look, listen, and then you'll find out what a lie this is, what you're telling here, week after week, within the walls of Parliament.
u2019-11-25-124	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder also belongs to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-11-25-125	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, Is it untrue that you have reduced the wages of health workers? [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Don't talk about it! Laszlo Varju: Lies!]] Is it untrue that you dismissed medical personnel? [[Zsolt Gréczy: 50 percent wage increase! Intercoms from the opposition: Why are you lying? Sit down. The president's ringing the bell.]] Is it untrue that you've reduced the number of hospital beds? Our goal was precisely to strengthen the financial value of those who work near the hospital bed, which is why we use additional resources every year. Part of the HUF 770 billion is devoted to the 72 percent wage increase that we can now offer to those working next to the hospital bed between 2018 and 2022. And if you look at how the number of doctors asking for permission to work abroad develops year after year, you will see that it has been decreasing since 2013. And you have brought up the number of nurses asking for permission to work abroad, and you can also see that in the last three years, it has been reduced, thank God. Thank God, every year fewer people ask for permission to work abroad. This includes, among other things, improving working conditions, raising wages and various scholarships, with which we try to make the career as popular as possible in career choice. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-25-126	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, MEP László Varju, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: "Blue Danube." Mr President, I would like to inform you that Minister Sándor Farkas has appointed Minister of State to respond to an urgent public task. [[Laszlo Varju nods.]] I see, Congressman, that you accept the person who is responding. Congressman László Varju has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-11-25-127	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Secretary of State, this is a very important question, since Johann Strauss's Blue Danube waltz was introduced in 1866, more than 150 years ago. In Vienna, he may have been inspired by the color of the Danube, but what happened now at Budapest is not comparable. Currently, it is usually green, brown or of some color, but to the surprise of the Danube rowers and fishermen, a week ago it was found that the turquoise is bright in the Újpest part. Even in Greece, the sea, and other places like this, could not be compared to what they saw there. In addition to the sight, they could experience the smell and its corrosive effect. Therefore, I think it is important for you to give an accurate answer to this extraordinary situation. I know that the emergency services were out on the scene, taking samples, but we haven't been informed since. That is why I am asking the honourable Secretary of State what kind of material contaminated the Danube last week at Újpest. How harmful was this pollutant? Have you discovered the identity of the contaminant yet? What do you intend to do to enforce the polluter-pays principle so that we can see exactly what has happened? It is important, because there are more and more such events, and I would like the citizens of Újpest, the voters, to have an accurate answer and to be able to inform them. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-25-128	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Farkas. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-11-25-129	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, On 18 November 2019 the Metropolitan Disaster Protection Directorate carried out an on-site inspection on the Danube River Kilometer 1652 at the end of the Úszódaru utca, at the entrance to Turóc utca, which we can note was that the entry point of a rainwater collection channel could be identified as a large amount of blue, odorless liquid flowing into the Danube. In order to identify the unknown liquid, sampling was carried out and the presence of dangerous substances could no longer be detected by on-site measurements. During the inspection, the discoloration was minimized, and practically the contamination seemed to disappear from this system. The Metropolitan Disaster Protection Directorate, as a water and water protection authority, has been asked to take place by the Metropolitan Csatornazási Művek Zrt. as experts operating the channel and as a representative of the environmental authority. The sampling group of Channel Works carried out on-site accredited sampling and carried out laboratory testing. The test results came in today. No components above the statutory surface water limit and suitable for identifying the source of pollution were included. In view of these results, the source of pollution cannot yet be identified, and therefore, as the operator of the precipitation channel, the Metropolitan Networking Works Ltd. continue reconnaissance at sites connected to the channel. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-25-130	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman László Varju. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-11-25-131	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, thank you very much for your answer. Just because I can interpret this as not the end of the investigation. [[Sándor Wolf nodds.]] And we could conclude that there is no pollution, there is no danger at this moment, but that what caused this is still in progress. This is very important, because in recent times I have seen the polluter disappear in general, just as we are in the position at the Bene Creek that we do not know who did it, and therefore, if I live with the words of his colleague, you are okay at the level of words, but let the actions appear here, in the Újpest part and, of course, in Visonta. And I hope that if there are more and more pollution and pollution, then not only will there be reproduction, but it will be prevented as an active work of the authorities, and it will be shown who was the polluter and will be validated so that this will no longer happen. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-25-132	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. Sándor Farkas is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2019-11-25-133	Honourable Congressman, Indeed, you are absolutely right about that; prevention would be the most important thing, at all, that people who are carrying out such activities, with which they are exposed to their environment, are able to assess the impact of what they are causing, not only on their own, but also on their environment and their region. This is an extremely important issue, and when we talk about environmentally conscious education, education, this includes how we can convince each other about it, and we need to start in youth to draw these young people's attention to how they do their respective activities. It's probably expected here, of course, I just assume, to add, that there might be some kind of industrial pollution, and the Channel Industries will find out. But I'll tell you this: since it's about the Danube and an industrial pollution, and the agricultural purse specifically belongs to the irrigation water, it's another question that we will be able to water from the Danube, and it's important that we preserve its quality, I think that we should have dealt with it for BM instead. [[László Varju: Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State.]] Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[14.20]]
u2019-11-25-134	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: When do you intend to resolve the situation? It's an address. Minister, you have appointed Mr Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, to answer your question. I respectfully ask you to accept the identity of the responder.
u2019-11-25-135	I'd like to wait for the Minister.
u2019-11-25-136	He'll wait for the Minister. Thank you very much. I would like to inform the Member and inform the House that the Minister has to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Now, if all is true, once again Congressman Péter Ungár... [[Péter Ungár: No, Congressman Antal Csárdi is next.]] Congressman Antal Csárdi's apologies, but the script, the representative of the LMP, was not put together in such a way as to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: what do you think of Mr Prime Minister? It's an address. Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, has appointed him to respond to his urgent public mission. I respectfully ask Congressman whether he will accept the person of the responding party or wait for the Prime Minister's presence in Parliament with an answer to his question.
u2019-11-25-137	I'd like the Prime Minister.
u2019-11-25-138	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Péter Ungár, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:, Why can't everyone receive the home care fee? It's an address. I can still say the same thing as before. I respectfully ask you to accept Rétvári Bencé as a responder.
u2019-11-25-139	I'll take it.
u2019-11-25-140	Thank you very much. Congressman says he'll take it. Congressman Péter Ungár has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-11-25-141	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to begin by saying that people who do not care for their children, and in most cases their elderly parents, will receive 38 and 58 thousand forints in the very tenth year of the Orbán government. Fidesz rejected even its 2004 proposal on this subject, the proposal from Mátrai Márta, so that it would not change. However, there is now a more acute problem. The child care fee, which was introduced from January this year, was automatically awarded to everyone who received the care fee. As of June last year, a review of who is entitled to do so and which family is not entitled to do so. In the course of this review, as this is done on the basis of a point system that has been modified twice since then, and which has been challenged by several professional organisations in this profession, several families have fallen out of it. Now, for example, the story of two families who are raising their children who are incapable of self - care has been taken away from them, which would otherwise have been automatically due. I'd like to hear the next three numbers, Mr. Secretary. One: how many specific review procedures have been conducted from July until now? How many of these rejections were there? What is the reason for most of these rejections? These people basically deserve this 0-24 hours of enthusiastic and very difficult work to get what you have passed by law. The fact that you save on this and create bureaucratic obstacles for affected families, I think it's very difficult to explain. This is the opportunity for the Secretary of State to tell these families why they do not deserve the children's home care fee.
u2019-11-25-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-11-25-143	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, For the record, I'd like to make a few points at the beginning. The government is raising the care fee by 30 percent. The government has introduced the children's home care fee from this year, which will amount to HUF 100,000, which will be HUF 124 thousand next year, so we will raise it by 24 percent, and we will increase it further in the coming years, until 2022, when it will reach the minimum wage level at that time. And for the sake of order, I would also like to say that this raise, which you, who are now short of this amount, has not been accepted, has not been supported, because it was just more important for you to whistle, sneeze and self-handle, and to make a live Facebook video than to go to your seats and press the yes button and support what the pro-government representatives supported without exception to radically increase the cost of home care for children. At the same time, we have also decided, honourable Member, to radically increase the budgetary framework that can be used for this. This was HUF 15 billion in 2010, last year we are planning for HUF 27 billion, this year we are planning for HUF 45 billion against HUF 15 billion in 2010 and HUF 55 billion in 2020. So I strongly refuse to tell you that anyone wants to save money. We spend billions and tens of billions more each year on this, because we really believe that those who care for their children or other relatives at home should be helped by the state, honourable Member. Through the reviews, the number of people who have become entitled to some form of care or some form of weeds has increased by around 2,000. So there's an extra resource, we've provided an extra opportunity. In the event that the offices fail, and for families who are obviously entitled, but are not established, it is a mistake, it must be corrected. The government has increased this budget line from 15 billion to 55 billion in order to reach everyone, and this, of course, does not involve faulty decisions, but needs to be corrected. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-25-144	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder will be addressed to Congressman Péter Ungár. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-11-25-145	Thank you very much. My question also concerned the number of negative decisions taken during the review procedure. The fact is that these people were having a very difficult time not knowing exactly where to turn when the office was making a mistake, what the appeal procedure was like. The reason the Bureau made a mistake was because the point system that you agreed to bylaws along with your weeds was wrong. You admitted it was bad. It's been modified twice. The Secretary of State, Philip, sat down to say that everything was all right, then was first modified because of a specific disorder of autism and then changed because of diabetes. If it was good and it wasn't rushed, then it shouldn't have been modified twice. In addition, the fact that a medical document can be reviewed during an official examination is an extremely strange procedure. The families involved are in a lack of information, so they turn to the media. And they have made appeals completely unattainable and created bureaucratic obstacles that these people cannot solve in time or in money.
u2019-11-25-146	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. Secretary of State is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-11-25-147	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The government's objective is not to prevent it when it increases the framework for the care fee from 15 billion to 55 billion forints by 2020, but is precisely the aid, additional resources and additional assistance. If you do not get to anyone from this budget resource, which we have radically increased, then help yourself and help everyone else, individual representatives and everyone else to get to these people, because that is why we amended the legislation on 12 December last year. As I said, we modified it here in Parliament on 12 December, and it was obviously published in the Gazette in December, but from 1 January this surplus was paid and the previous care fee for the child care fee increased several times. Obviously, we have been in constant consultation with these organisations, and then, following consultation with the various interest representatives, we have expanded and clarified in the legislation that is already a regulation and not a law on the individual details. We've refined it to get to as much as possible. So if you can help us get this information to as many people as possible, please help us and work together to get more information to as many potential stakeholders as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-25-148	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Member Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question: how many of you have sent back the questionnaire on the National Clean Development Strategy on Climate Protection with what share up to now? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Minister Tamás Schanda has appointed Minister of State to respond to an urgent public task. With all due respect, you'll accept the recipient's identity.
u2019-11-25-149	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2019-11-25-150	Congressman says he'll take it. Congressman Cake Olivio has the floor. Here you go. [[14.30]]
u2019-11-25-151	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, We just found out the government's consulting, launching a consultation on the climate issue, but no one's known that yet. I really don't understand why the government doesn't want to inform the Hungarian people about the most important issue determining our future. Where's the personal letter? Where's the public billboard, TV spot? In such cases, it seems that this is not important, unlike when an anti-Brussels campaign is to be conducted, a hate campaign is to be conducted or Fidesz propaganda is to be heard. Dear Secretary of State, According to a survey published this year, according to research by Závecz Research, 88 percent of Hungarians believe that climate change threatens the future of human civilization as a whole, 77 percent of people believe that this means that we need to change our way of life significantly over the next three decades, and 82 percent of Hungarians think that this is one of the most important problems and that much more should be dealt with. So the only consultation that would really interest people is only launched because of the EU's obligation. And they're still trying to keep it a secret. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Keeping it a secret?]] Dear Secretary of State, Why was the government hiding a questionnaire on climate protection? Billions are being spent on advertising propaganda consultations, and why are the real problems not on the agenda during the consultations? Be so kind as to inform me of your partial results, here I stress the partial results, as I know that the deadline expires today, but you must have some data on how many people have completed this consultation until yesterday, last week, so what are the partial results of the current consultation. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2019-11-25-152	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-11-25-153	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The truth is that I take it as an unexpected recognition and praise that, in the context of the social consultation that took place today at noon, it assumes that during the parliamentary session starting at 11:00, I can give you meaningful information. Thanking you for this, and at the same time exaggerating your confidence in me, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you cannot seriously believe that during this time you will be able to provide information on the substance of the data. Patience, please. Believe me, we will process the responses received, and we will provide information about it, and we will take it into account when preparing the strategy. Honourable Congressman, I must also say that we did not keep it secret, we did not hide it, and that the questionnaire published on the government portal is not a national consultation that you referred to, but a form of information and consultation required by Brussels. If the government wants to hold national consultations on climate policy, it will do so in the usual manner. The fact is, honourable Member, that the government is working and stands firm against you to protect the created world and our environmental heritage. Our aim in the medium term is to ensure that the majority of Hungarian electricity production comes from two sources, nuclear energy and renewable energy, mainly solar power plants. These are not technologies that trigger and exclude each other, but solutions that support each other, and both can be considered as clean energy sources. This is why the Hungarian government acted responsibly when it decided to build on nuclear energy in the long term in addition to renewables. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-25-154	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder is due to Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio. Here you go.
u2019-11-25-155	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, I don't know where it was advertised, because we didn't find any information about it in the MTI or on the news sites near the government or on the government.hu. But you may have missed our attention, so I apologize. It's a telltale sentence that if the government wants to consult on climate issues, it will proceed. Then when will you be so kind as to inform us when there will be a consultation on this, I repeat, very important issue? And if the European Union had provided for this, wouldn't it have been easier and cheaper to hold this consultation now, to advertise it properly, to ask people's opinions properly? In many ways, this case is problematic. Otherwise, the Dialogue will launch a consultation on this issue, and we will bring the results both to you and to the European Union, so that someone will finally ask the Hungarian people about this issue.
u2019-11-25-156	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go.
u2019-11-25-157	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Looking at your activities, anyone can see that you're trying to make some kind of political capital out of hysteria. This is also what they do in Budapest, where they accept a document, but it does not contain any measures and concrete steps. At the same time, on the other hand, the facts speak of the work of the Hungarian government. Our country is one of the 21 countries in the world where since 90 gross domestic products have increased, while CO2 emissions have decreased by 32 percent, energy consumption by 15 percent and greenhouse gas emissions by 35 percent. Hungary has already reached and has since exceeded the 13 per cent EU renewable energy target by 2020. Today, in Hungary, CO2 emissions per capita are 40 percent lower than climate and environmental protection in Germany. So we will continue our work to protect our environmental heritage and our future, the created world. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-25-158	Thank you very much, Congressman. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question: It's an address. Minister Tamás Menczer has appointed Mr Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask Congressman to accept the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Congressman says he'll take it. Mr Zsolt Csenger-Zalán has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-11-25-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Again, worrying news is coming from the Western Balkans. It is believed that the number of migrants is slowly reaching, perhaps even exceeding, 100,000. Turkey reports that in the first ten months of the year 350 thousand illegal border crossings were caught by the Turkish authorities, 80 thousand more than last year. The Greek islands are filled with migrants who cross land from here to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Unfortunately, the conflicts around Europe are still not affecting the solution to the migration crisis, on the contrary, the pressure is likely to increase in the future. This is why it is high time that international institutions, above all, but not only the European Union, finally change their migration policies, helping those who leave their homes to return home and improve the safety of their homes, in order to prevent them from leaving. At the same time, attempts to make the UN's global migration package, in detail or in its entirety, steal but make it mandatory, are particularly worrying. Hungary has proven that migration can be stopped and sets a good example of how to bring help to the countries concerned instead of bringing problems here. Hungary Helps will contribute to improving the living conditions of people living in the issuing countries in proportion to the size of our country's economy. Dear Secretary of State, With winter, migration routes move from sea to land. What should we expect in the coming months? How can Hungary handle the increasing pressure? [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-25-160	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Menczer. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor. [[14.40]]
u2019-11-25-161	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I agree with you, the situation with regard to migration is getting worse. With regard to Turkey, we already have the November figures, until exactly mid-November, 13 November, 395 938 illegal border crossings were caught by the Turkish authorities, i.e. almost 400 thousand by mid-November, a 60 percent increase compared to the same period of the previous year. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that most people no longer come from Syria, but from Afghanistan and Pakistan. Out of 395 938, Afghan 176 508, Pakistan 61 381, and Syrian groups are third in this regard. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the situation is worsening in the Balkans, and the situation is getting worse. I believe that I do not take a great risk if, based on the data available to me, I say that more than 100,000 illegal immigrants are moving in the Balkans, it is simply impossible to say an exact number, and we have tried this in many ways, but after there is, where there is registration, there is, there is no exact number, but there is more than 100,000, that is for sure. It is also true that the issue of European security remains in the hands of Turkey and the Turkish President, primarily because Brussels has been pursuing irresponsible policy in recent years. There has been no substantive action in recent years to protect European external borders, so we are at the mercy of the Turkish President. If he chose not to make a decision so far, and we hope he will not, but if, for whatever reason, he decided to move about four million people towards Europe, then he could do so and Europe would be defenceless. Thank you for the suggestion. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-25-162	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Zsolt Csenger-Zalán has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder.
u2019-11-25-163	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'm not saying it calmed me down, because the statistics show that the danger is increasing. Perhaps from the entry into office of the Commission led by Ursula von der Leyen we can hope that Europe's migration policy will change, because it is this invitation letter that has increased migration. At the same time, we cannot go without saying that the pro-immigration people are constantly attacking Hungary. They slylyly achieved that László Trócsányi could not even have been heard by the committee, and then tried against Oliver Várhelyi, they did everything but failed. But they're only so brave in Brussels. Last Friday, when the Hungarian Parliament listened to Commissioner Olivér Várhelyi, they did not go to the hearing in a cowardly way. This clearly indicates which of the parliaments in Brussels and Hungary they feel more comfortable with. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-25-164	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder for the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-11-25-165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, He called attention to an important moment, so allow me to draw attention to another recent, exactly weekend event. Jean Asselborn, a foreign minister in Luxembourg, has made a statement, but he is practically the embodiment of Brussels policy, is a great ally of George Soros, Jean-Claude Juncker and Frans Timmermans, and he said the other day that he has actually criticised Hungary again with very harsh words because we do not accept illegal immigrants, and in this connection he believes that the rule of law is not right in Hungary. In this regard, too, I would like to draw attention to the fact that Viktor Orbán is an ally of the Hungarian people and the Hungarian government is an ally of the Hungarian people. There is this other group of allies, Timmermans, Soros, Asselborn, Jean Claude Juncker, but there is another side, the Hungarian government and the Hungarian people's alliance, and we insist on protecting the safety of the Hungarian people. On the European Commission, only that Vice-President Timmermans has been and will continue to be Vice-President. So alertness and readiness will benefit us. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-25-166	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman János Bencsik, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "How long does the Government take advantage of people's patience? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask you, accept your response. [[For signal:]] The congressman indicates that he accepts the person who is responding. Congressman János Bencsik has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-11-25-167	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Last week, the State Audit Office published an investigation into the State Health Service Centre, which shows a rather devastating picture. The SAO concluded that public spending in health institutions is not transparent and that they are not sufficiently protected against corruption risks. The worst-case scenario is the hospitals in Budapest and within it the Jahn Ferenc South-Pest Hospital. This is a hospital that usually can only get into the national press if they find a dead body somewhere in a closed toilet, or if the workers there quit in bulk because of unpaid overtime money and congestion, thereby opening up the risk of class closures. But complaints are also regular in emergency care, everyday images showing pictures of people standing on folded chairs and on the ground, who often have to wait 10-12 hours to receive any kind of care. Dear Secretary of State, Not only the sick, but also the healers must work in amazing conditions. The bedbugs at the nearly 200-person nursing home in South Pest have grown so much that they can't get rid of them even with regular clearing, and because of the infection some of the psych wards had to be shut down. The bites of blood-sucking insects must be borne by the nurses working there, by the children with them, as many have come up from the countryside, and also by patients in other classes, as the infection spreads to the restrooms. In addition to bed bugs, these nurses often have to put up with 40-year-old furniture, moldy bathrooms, unusable stoves and lack of beds on the ground, and the hospital management shows complete insensitivity to their complaints, and the answer to each of their complaints is that there is no capacity. My simple question, Mr. Secretary, is that you think it's okay to do the work of people who have sworn to heal our fellow human beings every day under these conditions, and if not, what they intend to do about it. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-25-168	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-11-25-169	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You mentioned Jahn Ferenc Hospital, and I recall that in 2018, we renewed the emergency entry point from about HUF 120 million or something like this, precisely so that those who first arrive at this very heavy-duty hospital would arrive under the best possible conditions. You know that from the end of 2018, and from 2019, a new protocol has been put in place in emergency departments, precisely to ensure that patients who really need it are in the right order and are in the right order for patients who really need it and who do not need it at all. Besides, if you look at how your budget has evolved since the state's maintenance and operation, you can see that the surplus of billions of dollars is what the hospital can manage and has been able to renew in many parts, not denying that, of course, there are parts of it that have not yet been able to renew in recent years. This is why we started the program, which is why it is also this year, and in the next year it is about HUF 40 billion, which these hospitals can use. We bought new diagnostic equipment in various hospitals all over Budapest, precisely to improve the equipment, thus improving the diagnostic capacity of Budapest and Pest counties to 10 percent, so this also made it feel positive at Jahn Ferenc Hospital. You mentioned the question of nursing homes, this is a very, very important issue, according to the government, which is why we have launched a nursing home development programme, precisely so that even in the vicinity of hospitals, those who work as nurses come from the countryside and work in Budapest should have better conditions. If you've been watching the news, you've seen over the last few months that the government has already adopted serious funds to prepare these, and we're confident that soon the constructions can begin, and that new, more comfortable accommodations can be opened for nurses in Budapest. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-25-170	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder is the word of Congressman János Bencsik. Here you go.
u2019-11-25-171	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, If you go through the hallway of Jahn Ferenc Hospital, you will see that despite all the developments, you will find that the water dripping through the soaked moldy plaster has not had many results. I am very pleased that if there is a plan to renovate the nursing home, and for that to be the case, I would like to give you a little torque, Mr. Secretary, I would like to present you a gift, this Santa package is sent to you by the nurses working at the nursing home in South Pest. [[He's showing it to me.]] [[14.50]] These jars and test tubes contain bedbugs that have been collected for you by busy hands in the last few days. You don't have to be scared of him, it's locked down, so unlike the nurses working there who are really exposed to infection, you don't have to worry about that, Mr. Secretary. I would like to give you this, put it on your desk, look at it, and don't forget, or remind you of the circumstances under which our fellow humans, who have sworn to heal our fellow humans, do their work every day. Thank you very much. [[He's handing over a red bag to Dr. Bence of Retvár. A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-25-172	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, but I ask you not to release these blessed animals here.
u2019-11-25-173	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think that if you have been watching the history of Hungarian politics and the cycles of individual governments since 1990, you will find few governments who have been able to produce 72 percent increases in the case of nurses in one cycle. You're gonna find people who've cut their nurses' wages. These are the politicians with whom you are now politicalising in an alliance, the politician Ferenc Gyurcsány, whom you want to help, we trust that you will not be able to help him, but you want to help him become Prime Minister again in 2022, who has been elected the 17th worst statesman in the world. Well, at that time, nurses' wages fell, but now the government is working on it, and it has also achieved a visible result in order to rise to 72 percent. I hope that by the end of this cycle you will be able to see where nurses can rest at night in more comfortable conditions, and how they will be able to work for 72 percent higher wages in the near future from 2022 compared to their 2018 wages. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-25-174	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister without a wallet for the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, what do you think you know about the Austrian Ministry's support of the Energiaklub, and what do you think the anti-nuclear green organisations are constantly the climate friendly Paks II. You're attacking the construction of a nuclear power plant? It's an address. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-11-25-175	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, In order to avoid and mitigate the more serious consequences of climate change, it is crucial to stop warming the planet's atmosphere as quickly as possible at the lowest average temperature. In order to achieve this goal, the share of nuclear power plants and renewable energy sources in electricity generation needs to be significantly increased. Nevertheless, some green organisations are constantly attacking the Paks II project. A few days ago, I was deeply shocked to read the writings of a nuclear energy expert who also writes that the Energiaklub is financed by Austrian, German and several other international organizations in their anti-nuclear activities. For example, last year, the Energiaklub was supported by the Austrian Federal Ministry of Sustainability and Tourism. In their official annual report on the Austrian Ministry's support, they write:, we follow the Paks II investment cases with the help of the company and we are working to take further legal action against Paks II. I also think it is important to highlight that two years ago the Secretariat of the United Nations Espoo Convention identified the Environmental Impact Assessment Procedure of the Paks II project as best practice, i.e. good practice, as an example to be followed, as well as good practice by the International Atomic Energy Agency. Nevertheless, some green organisations have submitted complaints concerning the environmental authorisation procedure. A week ago, Minister, the members of the Economic Commission reported that the United Nations Aarhus Compliance Committee rejected Greenpeace Energy and its associates Paks II. Mr President, in response to your complaint, you have lodged this complaint. I respectfully ask Minister: what do you think and what do you know about the Austrian Ministry's support of the Energiaklub, and what do you think about the continued climate-friendly Paks II green organisations? Are they attacking the construction of a nuclear power plant? Thank you for your reply. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-25-176	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Minister János Süli. Here you go, Minister.
u2019-11-25-177	Mr President, Dear Parliament, My dear fellow Member, I have also read the question from the report of the Energy Club, because it is clear from the report where it receives the support and what its main objective is. So we have always known that, here in Parliament, I have repeatedly said that our green organisations are not specifically green organisations, but anti-nuclear organisations, and this report, which was confirmed by the Energiaklub. It can also be seen that they actually wanted to take advantage of all legal residences and used them, since the issue of the establishment of a nuclear power plant was first attacked by the European Commission. There, the European Commission was right on the six issues examined, all of which were true on Hungary. Then, at the European Court of Justice, Austria attacked the Commission of the European Union for giving Hungary the truth. He also called upon Hungarian organizations, including Greenpeace and the Energiaklub, this trial is still going on, and then he turned to the Aarhus Compliance Committee, which is a specialized organization of the United Nations, and this organization rejected the appeal last week. This was initiated by European anti-nuclear organisations two weeks after Paks was certified to properly implement the nuclear authorisation. We held a public hearing in nine cities in seven countries. Austria then contributed to the construction of the power plant, but these measures are taking place in the background, and it also uses Hungarian partners. Thank you.
u2019-11-25-178	Thank you very much, Minister. A woman representing a one-minute rejoinder has the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2019-11-25-179	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply, as KDNP is committed to global climate protection targets, domestic security of supply and cheap electricity supply in Paks II. Next to the nuclear power plant. And what we have always stressed, and I think that it is exemplary that by 2030, the Hungarian government will do everything in its power to ensure that 90 percent of our electricity production is carbon-free. Thank you very much for your detailed answer.
u2019-11-25-180	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2019-11-25-181	I also thank you for the question and for your repeated acknowledgement, as we have clearly said several times in Parliament: Hungary has no other option, if it is to provide cheap, competitive energy to industry and the population regardless of weather, then this can only be done by means of a nuclear power plant. And without nuclear power plants, there is no way to meet climate protection objectives, so we can achieve a double goal by building the nuclear power plant, which will enable us to support sustainable development in Hungary on an economic and environmental basis. Moreover, most of the production of electricity in Europe comes from a nuclear power plant. At Germany, I have also mentioned this: we produce electricity with 40 percent less carbon emissions, and in Europe, nuclear power plants produce 70 percent more electricity than wind and solar power plants. So, given that, I think we're on the right track. Thank you again for asking. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-25-182	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, 2:58 p.m., that concludes the hour of immediate questioning and ends the discussion of today's agendas. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Péter Ágh, from Fidesz, applied for a post-meeting speech: he started his service as Prime Minister 100 years ago under the title of Károly Huszár, Member of Parliament. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-25-183	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, It is now a tradition that, in addition to current affairs, I draw attention to all the anniversaries and famous events connected to my constituency, the county of North Vas. The centre of my district is defined by law, Sárvár, the history of which is linked by many famous personalities. These were the Nádasdyak, Tinódi Lantos Sebestyén, Géza Gárdonyi, or even the town's first elected MP, Lajos Batthyány, Martyr Prime Minister. At the same time, it is worth noting that another Prime Minister is also attached to the Vas settlement. Károly Huszár was an elected Member of Parliament for nearly two decades, whose government was founded on November 24, 1919, a hundred years ago. [[15.00]] The Huszár, born in 1882, after obtaining a teaching degree, began to politicalize in the Catholic People's Party. Even at a young age, the Christian Socialist movement and then the Catholic League were midwives and performed journalistic and editorial tasks. He was first elected representative in 1910 in Sarvar. During World War I, he served in the political and intelligence department of the Transylvanian army. He played a role in the foundation of the National Christian Social People's Party in 1918. He was arrested during the proletariat dictatorship and was kept in the detention facility for a while and then fled to Vienna. He was appointed Minister of Religion and Public Education in 1919. On 24 November, he became the prime minister of the so-called concentration cabinet, which was also recognised by the Antan and representing all classes of society, bringing together all the parties of Parliament. The Hussar government has developed to perform specific tasks. The two most important of these were the organisation of Hungary's representation in peace negotiations and the restoration of constitutionality, namely the settlement of national elections and the resolution of the Prime Minister's question. Therefore, the Huszár government prepared for the peace talks and settled the issue of state form. The National Assembly elections were also held in January 1920, on which Károly Huszár again obtained his mandate in Sarvar. After the implementation of its programme, the government ended its operation on 15 March 1920. Parliament has remained active in its life. In 1922 and then in 1926 he became a member of this House with the votes in Sárvár, and at the same time he was vice-president. In 1925 he was elected a citizen of the city. In 1928 he resigned from his mandate as President of the National Social Insurance Institute and became a member of the Upper House. In 34 he retired from public life and received the cross of the Hungarian Order of Merit. In 1930 he organized the Memorial Year of St. Imre, for which XI. Pope Pius decorated him with the great cross of the Great Order of St. Gregory. Later, he participated in the preparation of the international Eucharistic Congress in Budapest. In his last years, he was vice president of Actio Catholica. During his life he wrote a number of books, held international lecture trips, where he took part among others in favour of Hungarian prisoners of war. The 1931 Parliamentary Almanach notes that it announced three major actions to alleviate the poverty after the war, in which it paid attention to saving the poor and organized a scholarship for excellent Hungarian students. Here, in the House of the Country, in the corridor in front of the Delegation Hall, he gave a speech at the unveiling of the World War II heroes' plaque. He died in 1941. According to the National Heritage Institute, the grave in the Fujei Road cemetery was protected in 2001. Károly Huszár appreciated the constituency that sent him to Parliament. János Szeibert wrote the preface to the monograph of Sárvár in 1926. In this he pointed out that the people of Sárvár are freedom-loving, authoritarian, diligent, God-fearing, pious, eager, family virtues; proud of his Christian faith and Hungarianism. Dear House, As at that time, we can speak with the greatest appreciation of the people of Sarvar. Károly Huszár had to endure in troubled times. We have come to a more peaceful era in which the goal is the same as that of those before us: we must build a growing city and a country for our children and grandchildren. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause for the governing parties, sporadic applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2019-11-25-184	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Rig Lajos, Member of the Jobbik Group, submitted a post-meeting speech entitled Hospital Mutilation 2.0. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-25-185	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I could have also given my post- Agenda speech the title of structural change 2.0, because we know that in 2010, when Fidesz came to the government, it launched an in-depth health process called structural change at hospital level. Let us look at what the structure of the health system consists of: three pillars: prevention, prevention, curative and active care, which is curation and chronic care, which is prevention. This type of structural hospital transformation was first implemented in 2012 and has two parts, one being territorial change and the other being hospital change. Regional means when small hospitals cancel active inpatient care, say surgery, internal medicine. Unfortunately, this has been the victim of the hospital in Tapolca, and it's coming in on the news, but I'll tell you in more detail, the institutional level of structural change, which means that the remaining small hospitals will be transferred to larger hospitals or operated as a facility, and then the mother hospital will terminate active inpatient care. In 2012, there were 45 function-shifting hospitals, which means that 1882 active beds were removed here in the country and handed over to other hospitals, but not plus funding, plus doctors and nurses. If we look at the statements that have been made these days, the EMMI immediately reacted to them that they are completely false news, and here the government does not discuss such things. You always have to say that the truth is somewhere halfway, and the devil is always in the details. Even if we don't believe the EMMI, let's try to quote one or two responsible people's statements over the past few years. First of all, Minister Miklós Kásler says that if the structure is in place, resources can be allocated to the exact activity. In March 2019 Andrea Ficzere, the new Chairman of the Hospital Association, gave the Hungarian Newspaper a deep interview, and asked her, among other things, what she thought of the government's action to create a so-called chancellor system in addition to hospital economic directors. He clearly stated that this system is wrong, because economic directors know their jobs, they know how hospitals work; the only thing I don't agree with is how the hospital's debt can be so big. And he continued his thinking: I would rather ask the question: he needed so many active beds for Hungary. Then he went on to say, "No, I don't think so." Another statement from the Secretary of State that was released recently. Ildikó Horváth, State Secretary for Health, gave a statement, and he was asked that it was absolutely false news, which the opposition or a press or two are trying to emphasize here that hospitals are being shut down. They asked him the question very nicely and very cleverly, because we are not talking about hospital closures, so you will not shut down hospitals, but will reduce functions and transfer functions and capacities, as the Secretary of State said. He said we can't talk about hospital closure. We have to think about regrouping capacity. But it doesn't matter what sentence I say, the point is the same, unfortunately, the damage is only seen by small hospitals again. You are making a change of structure by not coordinating with the people living there, patients, hospital directors and opposition parties. Swedish and French models are brought here, which operate in Sweden, France, but not in Hungary. You're going to start a structural change like, say, building a construction site, and you want to build the roof first, and you're going to try to put on four people the weight that this roof is trailing under them, and when some part of it collapses, you're going to try to relieve it. The same is happening here: they are changing structures without strengthening the basic supply. They change the structure by reducing the backup. There will be a change of structure with outpatient clinics slowly failing to become a doctor, and the saying that I said to Mr Retvári three years ago will indeed be true. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That they're going to combine ophthalmology and rheumatology, and they're going to look at his eyes and walk at the same time. [[Delight and applause from the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-25-186	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Zoltán Magyar applied for a post-meeting speech on the challenges of domestic agriculture from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-25-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Unlike the title, I would like to say a little bit more positive after the agenda, because I did not know that this news would be available at that time, because the website of National Geographic magazine has chosen the national blue-tour route across our country as one of the 25 most recommended destinations by 2020, which I think we can all be proud of. [[Sándor Font: That's right!]] It's a way of life, an opportunity that's practically accessible to anyone, and I think it's worth practicing. On the list of the world's most well-known scientific educational magazine, our blue tour includes the Kalahari Desert, the Maldives, the Kamchatka Peninsula or the Grand Canyon, so I think our country has managed to appear alongside very distinguished actors. I would not burden you with the history and history of the route, since the excellent website that presents this is available to everyone. 1167 kilometers, by the way, there are 27 sections, 152 stamps available, and 6700 officially completed so far. So far, there have been relatively few foreigners. We can trust that in such a serious recognition of such a serious magazine, this proportion may increase, and in the future this route will be known to more and more foreigners. [[15.10]] The route of the Blue Tour works in the professional coordination of the Hungarian Association of Nature walkers, and I have to say that it is also a surprisingly useful website for me, which also presents numerous attractions in English, German and Slovak as well as Hungarian. What was interesting and useful to me was that the application for the blue tour works well also in offline mode, so it is suitable for field navigation in a practical sense, and XXI. It complements the ancient hobby and way of life of nature in a century. I just wanted to share a few thoughts on this, so that I can present this serious recognition in a few words in front of the protocol and the public in the House, and encourage the Government to encourage you, after the initial faint, hiking-friendly steps, after such recognition, to regroup more resources, which will certainly appear in the planning of the budget, as there is a shift every year in favour of hiking. But this does not mean the amount of money that could substantially increase the quality of this hobby, and thus give as many people as possible the pleasure of trying out blue tours or other hiking trails in our country, not to mention the fact that at communication level, the government has many times told us how interested it is in developing domestic tourism. Here is a great opportunity, where with a small investment you can achieve significant results and progress, and if you are already internationally aware of this domestic value, then we should also appreciate it, and we should also pay more attention to it. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President.
u2019-11-25-188	Thank you very much, Congressman. After the agenda, Mr Zoltán Fenyvesi, from the Fidesz Group, called Balaton for four seasons. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-25-189	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, For several years now, we have been reading and hearing the various positive statistics about the rapid development of tourism in Hungary, the number of foreign and domestic tourists is constantly increasing. Since 2010, the revenues of commercial and catering establishments have more than doubled. Today, over 400,000 people work in the sector. The Balaton Uplands represent a significant part of my constituency, which is the second most visited area of Hungary after Budapest. The majority of tourists are Hungarian tourists, which is due in a significant part to the wage increases and the introduction of the SZÉP card. It is important to note that the HUF 7.2 billion spent in commercial accommodations in the Balaton region is more than 31 percent of the total national SZÉP-card accommodation income. In the first nine months of 2019 1.7 million guests spent 5.3 million nights in commercial accommodations in the Balaton region, compared to the same period of the previous year, this represents 0.3 percent of the number of guests. In the first nine months of 2019, 401 thousand foreign guests spent 1.7 million nights in the Balaton region, which is a 0.7 percent increase in the number of foreign guests compared to the same period of the previous year. In the first nine months of 2019 1.3 million domestic guests spent 3.5 million nights in the area of Lake Balaton. This was a 0.6 percent increase in domestic guests compared to 2018 data. In the first nine months of 2019 a total turnover of HUF 71.2 billion was realised in commercial accommodations in the Balaton priority tourist area, which represents a 7.3 percent increase compared to the same period in 2018. This year we can also see positive tourist data, and we have a good chance that this year is also a significant increase in tourism compared to the same period of the previous year, and it will also be a successful year for tourism as well. However, it is also clear that the number of revenues in the Balaton region is not only increasing by tourists. It can be achieved as it can be seen that the increase in the number of tourists has not occurred to the extent that revenues have occurred. This means that, on the one hand, it is possible to increase revenues with new developments, attractions and, on the other hand, with high-quality programmes that go beyond the summer season, which welcome tourists in winter, summer and spring. I am pleased to say that in the settlements of my constituency in Balaton we can see examples of both. In Nagyvázsony there is a unique forint 126 million in Europe, which is intended to present the past, present and work of the yoke horses, and there is also a HUF 1 billion development in the Kinizsi Castle. In Badacsony, Badacsonytomaj the beaches, the city centre, renovated parks, roads, sidewalks were built, and the Folly Arboretum was built as part of the World Heritage competition. This investment served to preserve and develop the built and natural heritage. It was handed over in Badacsony, an old, cult place, the Mermaid Restaurant and the wine production. The castle renovation is also taking place in Szigliget, and we hope it will be ready for the season. On the beach, a sauna has been built that works in winter, and by the way, the Szigligetians describe it as being worth a sauna, because it is 10 metres from the country's largest dive pool, Lake Balaton. The beach was built at several paces on the hill of Abraham, and the boat dock was established, and the community and sports house was built, with bowling and squash courts, saunas and jacuzzis also operating during the winter period. Many now make sure that Lake Balaton is able to provide meaningful and enjoyable entertainment for visitors throughout the year beyond the summer season, so not only in summer, but in winter, autumn and spring as well. Such are the vintage parties, the revelry festival in Szigliget, the Martin's Day Vigs, the event series of the gastrohegy in Badacsony, the boiled wine cooking competition and the jelly beauty contest in Badacsonytördemic, the year-end splash in Balaton in Ábrahámhegy, the New Year Szigliget, the different cellars in the entire Balaton Highlands; because, fellow Members, remember: Balaton in all four seasons. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-11-25-190	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, How much longer? Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has applied for a speech on the agenda from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-25-191	Mr President, Dear House, In recent days, the House has debated a 1 per cent reduction in taxes and contributions, which we may have been able to agree on, but in its depth we have not been able to point out that, if we look at OECD member countries in terms of taxes on employment, taxation is still the sixth highest in Hungary among the Member States concerned. We also need to see that more burdens are imposed only on Belgian, German, Italian, French and Austrian workers. We can also see that this is the average in OECD Member States, i.e. the rate of taxation is 36.1 per cent. This is 9 percentage points lower than its Hungarian value, so we should make a huge shift to ensure that the tax content of Hungarian workers is at least closer to the average, the OECD average. In view of this, a 1% cosmetic contribution allowance may not be considered revolutionary. I would also like to say that the OECD's average tax burden for single-seeking families in the countries under consideration is slightly more than 26 per cent and the same value in Hungary is above 30 per cent. So whatever family model we're looking at, mosaic families, single-seekers, multi-childs, single-childs, we find that the majority of developed economies have to pay significantly less percentage tax than in Hungary. [[15.20]] At the same time, we see that although the government, which advertises itself with tax reductions, has taken cosmetic measures, we should not discuss them, it is still a 9 percent distance from the average in terms of taxation for workers at systemic level. So we can't say at all, unfortunately, that this government's behavior would be extremely family-friendly. If we look at the behaviour of the government, it is worth examining the processes from 2010, and we see that between 2010 and 18 tax revenues have increased by around 58 percent, while the EU average was only 30 percent. So the Orbán government has been able to increase the amount of taxes collected in Hungary at a double rate, such as the EU average. This is what a secretary of state or uninformed minister says: yes, the Hungarian wage level has increased so much, and Hungarian companies pay so much more in the form of taxes or contributions that this increase is natural. However, this growth is due to three factors in the economic world. Let us examine these one by one. On the one hand, there could be more tax revenue if companies had more profits, so they paid more profit taxes. In Hungary, on the other hand, there was a corporate tax reduction, which only benefited Hungarian companies by 1%, so it was a very large percentage discount for multinational companies, and the Hungarian Government actually adopted this law at the order of the multinationals. So here, for the first of the three factors, we do not see the reason why so much more tax is collected in Hungary, doubling the rate of tax collection than the average of the Union. Secondly, if more people work and pay more, they pay more income tax. But the system of family tax incentives is exactly about people not paying more income taxes in Hungary, and I support this line management, but then the second factor fell. Where is the fact that the Hungarian people must pay almost double as much taxes in the form of increases as the rate of growth in the EU? The third, only possible answer: if consumption spins, Hungarian citizens pay more types of traffic taxes. Here the cat is buried: 27 percent, amazing, world record high VAT is paid by the Hungarian pensioner, the Hungarian worker, the Hungarian child-teachers, and the not-so-elegant step that the minimum wage did not pay taxes before, but now it is taxed by the Fidesz-KDNP, and hundreds of billions are also included in the budget in a way that has not previously been included. We must therefore say that the taxation of Hungarian workers is abnormally high, even in EU and OECD comparisons. Besides, the government doesn't have the guts to argue with that. Contrary to the prognosis of success, there would therefore be plenty of room for manoeuvre for those Hungarian workers from whom this government otherwise expects a demographic turnaround and expects all the success stories from them, which, by the way, would undoubtedly be necessary in Hungary. To sum up, therefore, we must say that the tax system must be touched, but the first thing we need to do is to eliminate the free robbery that Hungarian families are exposed to through the VAT system. If we want to build a Hungarian future, this is the only way ahead. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-25-192	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, What's going on in Siófok? Mr Kotocsáné Kőrösi Anita, Member of the Jobbik Group, spoke after the agenda. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-11-25-193	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Siofoks! Last week I quoted what Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said in his speech on 11 September 2018. We would never strive to silence those who disagree with us. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: You spoke for 14 hours.]] On 13 October, during the municipal elections, opposition parties decided to support independent Dr. Róbert Lengyel at this challenge and not to launch a counter-opinion. In the campaign for municipal elections, it was also proven that opposition candidates were confronted with different walls. Unfortunately, it also happened that one of the candidates was warned by his employer because he put his poster in the public area in the car of the parking lot. On 13 October, the Siófok decided to set up the body of representatives with 8 opposition and 4 pro-government candidates and entrust the honour to Siófok Association and an independent candidate the fate of their city. Unfortunately, since then, since the municipal elections, the governing party has not been able to settle for this defeat. Social media posts, comments, and sharing are causing atrocities for people who think differently. Yes, fellow Members, they threaten families, they threaten family mothers and family fathers, that if they comment or share, they will make an unfavorable contribution to the government party, and they will lose their jobs. We've come this far! [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: Shame!]] You force the Hungarian people to keep their mouths shut. You, too, are doing it to Hungarian people to limit free expression. In no case do they dare comment only on sites that they know you may not be watching every day, even though we know that they are watching everyone, because nothing else matters to you but to keep Hungarian people in fear, and yes, to make an example of someone who actually loses their job because they have made a Facebook entry or a page is shared. We can't let him. We can't let him. I have said this many times, because we have to stand up for each other because we believe that there is a free expression of opinion, and it can also be done by not using obscene words. Believe me, it's not easy for me to read the comments I get every day because I think differently. And we cannot allow these things, party politics, to interfere with the functioning of professional organizations. It has also occurred that one of the highest professional authority in Siófok can no longer carry out professional work in an agricultural professional organisation because he thinks differently. Just think about the situation the whole country is in. Siófok is small, a small town, everything turns out. These methods will also be revealed. Don't think anyone's gonna shut you up, because we're gonna encourage everyone to say yes, let us know. Because we will not let the people who work for Siófok, especially the Honor for Siófok Association, stand up for everyone and encourage them to signal if they are involved in such atrocities, because only joint action can really help against this arrogance. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-25-194	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Tamás Csányi, Member of the Jobbik Group, has applied for a post-meeting speech:. Will you help the Holy Crown Tiszatenyő? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-25-195	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Interesting things are happening these days in the 4th constituency of Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County, so I cannot leave them unspoken in my parliamentary work. As you know, the Fidesz candidate fell in the constituency on October 13th, so István Kazinczy's time ended in Tiszatenyő, and the independent József Mező won. Having examined the town's register, the new mayor found that it was not empty, but had a deficit of more than 250 million. The first man in Tiszatenyő published this in social media with the remark that, of course, the settlement cannot pay these debts. There is a repayment of aid for energy development which has been incorrectly used from semi-finished sports lockers to the development of pig farms, and not least, dear fellow Members, the missed poultry cutting bridge, to mention some of the debt records. István Kazinczy and István Happy often appeared together earlier, obviously they are also good friends, as simile simili gaudet. For example, they appeared together on 18 May 2017 on the foundation stone of the poultry cutting bridge to be established in the village, on which a copy of the St. Crown was shown by video recordings. [[15.30]] Consider the absurdity of this visual experience and the fact that a copy of the Holy Crown is present, because a part of the press has unfortunately been covered by this image, as was the case of the Robbed Tiszatenyő. This does not exactly reflect well on the Member with a reputation already torn apart, not to mention the dignity of the Holy Crown. By the way, after the municipal elections, settlements are faced with situations similar to those of their tens. The Fidesz city leaders seem to have wiped out the Treasury quickly, as they will be able to prove from the newly elected city manager that he is unfit to perform his duties. Then, of course, they will not be able to emphasize that only the clear wisdom of the mayor of Fidesz will be able to save the settlement from this serious situation. What a sneaky, hypocritical mentality that is, fellow Members! Allow me, in support of my argument, to bring here Jászberény as an example, where I am ashamed of the family business of the Novák couple, the representative of the Hungarian Movement, will provide the Fidesz majority in the general assembly, which is an eloquent proof of the common root of the two organizations. Mayor Lóránt Budai faced the fact that the previous city administration had emptied the register so much that they would soon have to face a deficit of over a billion forints. This is only two examples, but it would certainly be a long way from the fidesz amok run, which resulted in the robbery of these settlements. My question is: the government helps these municipalities, or only deus ex machina can provide a way out of this hopeless situation for those living in the settlement. I really hope, on behalf of the people here, that it won't. At the same time, the mayors who re-elected the mandate still have the right to be asked by the public of the constituency to comment on their abuse of TOP applications over the past period, as it is difficult to believe, dear fellow Members, that only the mayor of Kengy was involved in this complicated case. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-11-25-196	Thank you very much, Congressman. To satisfy everyone, the Via Carpathia has applied for a post-op speech on the construction of the M30 motorway from the Fidesz Group, Mr Richárd Hörcsik. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-25-197	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The construction of the section of the M30 motorway connecting the two twin cities Košice and Miskolc will soon be completed. This section will be an important part of the so-called Via Carpathia international highway, which connects the Carpathians and even the Baltic Sea with the Black Sea. The geopolitical significance of the Via Carpathia motorway is no longer questioned, as there is still insufficient North-South connections between Central Europe countries, whether it is the link between road or fixed-track networks. I am convinced, Mr President, that the construction of such roads and railways will strengthen the link between the Visegrád four Member States. Ladies and gentlemen, As a Member of the Parliament of Abaúj and Zemplén, I think it is important to highlight the importance that, by building the Tornyosnémeti-Miskolc road section under construction, we will be able to reach one of the most beautiful parts of Hungary, besides Abaúj, Zemplén. Also, it will be easier to transport between Miskolc and Košice, from which the cross-border trade and service sector can also benefit a lot in addition to the Hungarians in the Highlands. However, in my constituency, in the settlements in the valley of Hernád, the citizens who lived there had to face a number of difficulties due to the construction of the motorway. The 6400 inhabitants of the district centre, the city of Encs, have not only faced the usual and temporary difficulties associated with large investments in recent years, but also the fact that, due to the new high traffic route, the further development of the settlement must be planned along other strategies, as this route will move in a narrow lane between the two important parts of the city divided into three settlements. Abaújdevecser, which is currently separated from Encs by main road number 3, will be located in the immediate vicinity of the motorway as well as in the other half of the city, a family-married area built in recent decades. But I could say that the situation is similar in the case of Hidasnémeti, and it is important to mention, for example, Novajidrán, where it was precisely because of the proximity of the highway that we had to build a new funeral home, which we are about to deliver in the next few days. Mr President, Voters could therefore only now, I could say, during the continuation of the construction process, have really seen the difficulties of building a motorway and, therefore, have expressed concerns about the future challenges posed by the motorway in use. We know that an ex post examination of the design process is no longer possible in the advanced state of construction. Thus, a satisfactory solution for everyone can be achieved not by changing the trail, but by reducing the externalities of the new road, by strengthening protection measures for residential areas. I am thinking, for example, of the building of noise protection walls, which, according to the promises made at the design stage, was designed in accordance with the measurement of later noise levels, so I think that it is of particular importance that noise and vibration protection be implemented as far as possible. In addition to the noise barrier walls, for example, the installation of protection forests is included, especially where the land remaining on the motorway cannot be used economically for anything else. Ladies and gentlemen, In order for the voters of the affected Abaúj settlements to benefit from the M30 motorway, I think it would be necessary to build the widest possible coverage of noise and vibration protection. I'm asking the government to help me with this. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-25-198	Thank you very much, Congressman. She applied for a speech from the LMP Group on the margins of the Water Management Act, Ms Erzsébet Schmuck. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-11-25-199	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In the debate on the draft legislation on irrigation, the LMP was left alone with its minority opinion. During the debate, I got cold and warm. One thought, however, caught me in particular, that I did not realize that I was going across the highway from traffic. It's interesting, though, that even those who face me don't realize that they might have been in the wrong lane. However, it seems to me that this is exactly the case today, and in this regard, the issue of irrigation is just one of many. Because today, the whole world is facing the few who judge our world's problems according to the principles and values of ecology. Particular professional knowledge, partial interests and policies and policies that serve it go against system-based ecological considerations, the interests of future generations and ourselves. As long as there was an environmental policy, such solutions as irrigation were thus called the end of a tube, indicating that the causes should be treated instead of the effect. Yeah, he did, but he didn't touch the causes, and since he didn't, and we haven't actually done it since, our local problems have become global. I'm going to do another attempt to convince you of the need for a systemic approach to this issue. The embedded nature of the issue is global, regional, Carpathian Basin, national, local, and this should be interpreted in the light of water circulation, water management, soil cultivation and ecosystem services. The order of tasks is thus the following from the causes to the end of the tube. Firstly, international recognition and efforts are needed to restore global water circulation, disturbed global rain ribbons, maintain and regenerate the global forest cover that provides this mechanism. [[15.40]] Secondly, regional cross-border agreements are needed in order to restore the gallery forests accompanying the blue corridors from sea to inland and their continuity and to reconstruct the soil structure of the precipitation system. Third: We need measures at the Carpathian Basin level to rethink the water arrangements that previously failed, leading to the drying of the pool, and to ensure water retention of the pool. The following is: domestic measures are needed to transform the structure of agriculture based on arable crops leading to low ecosystem services and to improve the natural vegetation of our country. Fifth: Abolish soil structure degradation, soil rotation and chemized technologies leading to the loss of soil biodiversity, switch to soil-friendly solutions for continuous agriculture. The following is: the introduction of soil-saving, soil-renewing technologies must restore the water retention and aquifer capacity of our soils. And finally, if, after all, artificial water supplementation is needed, it can only be done in the light of the agroecological conditions given. Thank you for listening.
u2019-11-25-200	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear House, Mr Hajdu László has applied for a 25-year-old speech from the DK Group on the agenda titled Szilas Folk Dance Ensemble in Cákospalota. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-25-201	Dear House, I would like to talk briefly about one of the prides of my constituency, the Szilas People's Dance Ensemble in Crab Palota, celebrating the 25th anniversary of its existence this year. Annex XV is amended as follows: The district belongs to the traditional Palóc culture zone. From a long time ago, all the way to the XIX-XX. For centuries, there had been paloses. The folklore folk costume and belief world in the palace show strong mansion features, and the old palaces speak with a dialect. In particular, the dialect based on the use of the voice, which has been maintained until recently. As a result, Rákospalota was mentioned as the southernmost village of the village. For more than a hundred years, we have been systematically tending to these traditions, and in our local history museum we have a considerable amount of written memories of this. After the change of regime, the most important and painful shortage for peasants in Palota, by the overzealous local power, was re-established among its formalized organizations following the old traditions, which were not previously allowed to operate in Crab Palota. His President Lajos Dudás became an evangelical peasant farmer, a presbyterian and an electrical engineer's degree, but a real local peasant. Today, he is a citizen of the district, and he has been replaced by young people. He's the founding president of this group, and he's also the leader of the dance group. As former mayor, he used to contact me to get back the room on Deák Street, which was once the farmer's cultural center. Of course, we have complied with this request, although we hardly believed that after all these decades this tradition could come to life again, and let us see: yes. In the early 1990s, young farmers began to organize harvest balls regularly, commemorate national and ecclesiastical festivals, and again to wear the folk costumes of grandparents, to look for new folk costumes that were used in the Palóc area, and the Szilas folk dance ensemble was able to bring more and more young and more supporters to it. The group is constantly growing with the young people joining it, who come from other districts of Budapest, such as the Babits Mihály High School in Újpest. They now have nearly 150 active members, and young people dance in several categories. Their work is also supported by old, no longer active dancers. The increase in the number of employees also enabled the start of replacement groups, and now there is work in the association in small groups and larger groups. The municipality helped the association to come to life 25 years ago with HUF 500 thousand/year support, and now the support is HUF 10 million to help the association's work. The association, which is a group, by helping it, I believe that we will also receive services in return. They are key participants in the local events in Crab Palota, national and ecclesiastical commemorations. As former mayor of the district, as Members of Parliament, we are proud that I am personally proud to be invited to various festivals. We are winners at many festivals, and we are able to organize the Szilas Dance Festival for the 7th time. This ensemble, which has received an excellent rating from national organizations on several occasions, has been excellent in the care of the neglected folk traditions of the past 40 years. I wanted to give them a memory. Thank you so much for listening.
u2019-11-25-202	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Government is slaughtering the current system of adult education after the day of the speech, Mr István Apáti. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-25-203	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian Movement objects to the recently adopted rules on adult education and vocational training. This comprehensive and very negative change affects vocational training students, vocational training workers, adult education workers, adults who want to take advantage of lifelong learning, which is now impossible for them by the government, or affects most small and medium-sized enterprises that are practically ruined. Moreover, the rules adopted violate the principle of freedom of business, violate the principle of free choice of school or educational institution, and do not comply with the principles of economy and efficiency arising from common sense. I would like to add a few brief points to these, so that I can demonstrate, on an overview basis, that it is completely impossible for you to carry what you want to carry through in practice. [[15.50]] The fundamental principle of freedom of business is violated because, speaking or unspoken, of course, unspoken in your custom, adult education companies are virtually insufferable, ruined, and the workers there are converted into lecturers within the framework of an employment relationship or an entrepreneurial relationship, and they will not be able to work in the state system. It's just that there are a lot of problems here, and whether it's a billionaire or a ten billionaire guaranteed damages lawsuits, the government is facing. What about the business costs that are now being paid in vain? What about the resources that these entrepreneurs have invested in development, turning back and investing their former profits? Or worse, they took out development loans. Who's gonna pay them back for the damage they've done? Who will pay them the costs, who will pay for their lost profits, who will pay for the development loans that they have taken in trust in the existing regulations? I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, to be exceptionally empathetic and to imagine that your own business should be carried out in any field of expertise, or that these businesses may be involved in any field, with a legislative process, suddenly beheaded, and the work of their lives, the meaning of their lives, is virtually lost, and they are put in an impossible position. It is not the first profession, it is not the first profession, which is practically beheaded and destroyed from one moment to the next. They can operate until December 2021 at the most, and they will probably still be able to survive, after which they are guaranteed to fail in a shorter or longer period of time. And what about the rights that have been acquired so far, the adult education permits, the examination organisation licenses, which have been acquired and exercised in good faith by the right holders? They also become completely meaningless. Then what about our adult compatriots who will no longer be able to take advantage of the free choice of school? Of course, this option will remain on paper, but since sectoral training centers are in larger cities, travel will be a noble simplicity, logistics difficulties will also prevent most Hungarian adults who want to learn from freely choosing the form of training or the training institution where they want to gain extra skills or basic skills. In this way, the whole adopted, unthinkable regulation, which once again demonstrates your worst habits and unbroken traditions, makes lifelong learning virtually impossible. And how uneconomical and contrary to the principles of efficiency, not only does it show that adults who want to learn face travel and logistical difficulties, but they simply will not have time to acquire expertise in the state system in two or three times as much time as they can get from these companies in adult education. Not to mention that the curriculum is often changing, which businesses are more easily adapted to, since the state system is completely inflexible. At that time, we had not yet talked about the conversion of teachers into employees, the related disabling of rights and difficulties. The Hungarian Movement asks you to repeal this and submit new, viable legislative proposals for the interests of the profession and the majority of the Hungarian people, because this is in the interest of a narrow circle, probably with ulterior motives, that the madness that you have accepted should enter into force in this form. There is no way we're suggesting this to you. Thank you.
u2019-11-25-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next autumn session is expected to take place on 2 December 2019. Thank you, fellow Members, for the work of the chiefs of the minutes, the hall service, the staff of the shift. For all of you, a good evening, and a safe return home, the meeting will be closed.
