u2019-12-17-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome you and welcome our guests, as well as all those who are monitoring our meeting today. I would like to inform you that László Földi and Dezső Liberty will be in charge of this meeting. The pre-meeting speeches will follow. After the meeting of the European Council, Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck from the Group of the LMP applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-12-17-1	Dear House, Several important international events on climate change took place last week. For us, perhaps the most important was the European Council meeting. As we know, at previous European Council meetings, we vetoed the European Union's stricter climate targets several times, and it is now welcome that Hungary has not vetoed, and now only Poland considers it impossible to achieve climate neutrality by 2050. At the same time, I think that we cannot go without saying what Prime Minister said. I would like to start with the climate championship, i.e. Hungary is a climate champion. Ladies and gentlemen, This is not a football game, there are no winners here, and there are no losers. There are only losers here. The question here is how much we can minimize losses in the coming years. Just think that if current trends continue, we will reach 4 degrees Celsius or higher by the end of the century. And this will have very serious, tragic effects on Hungary, on Hungarian agriculture, because here in the Carpathian Basin we are particularly exposed to the consequences of climate change. In addition, the climate championship that the Prime Minister is associating with, so those figures aren't true. If you're a climate champion, someone's gonna do it for the championship. But Hungary has done nothing to reduce CO2 emissions by 2013 since 1990. This is practically the result of the collapse of the heavy industry after the change of regime and the fact that there was a global economic crisis in 2008. So Hungary did nothing to reduce CO2 emissions by 2013. Moreover, since 2014, CO2 emissions in Hungary have increased by more than 5 percent annually. We have reached a 40% cut by 2014, and now we are only at 32 percent. I ask how we will achieve a 40% reduction by 2030. We will not achieve this either, and the European Union may set a common reduction target of 50-55 percent. The Prime Minister also said that action against climate change is important, but this should not involve rising food prices and rising energy prices. To increase food prices, I would like to say that the average temperature in Europe has increased by 0.9 percent in the last century, by 1.2 percent in Hungary; so it has a very serious impact on the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian food industry. If this goes on and we do nothing but wait for money, then it will mean that agricultural yields will fall radically and prices will rise to heaven. It must also be said about nuclear energy. If the government were to add up to Paks II. what it costs, starting with planning costs, construction costs, disposal of small and medium-activity waste, research and construction of high-activity waste disposal, would immediately reveal that electricity will be extremely expensive in Hungary if Paks II. Entering the system. Therefore, if we want cheaper energy, Paks II should not be built and invested in renewable energy. Ladies and gentlemen, We also have a great responsibility if food prices and energy prices increase, it will hit the poorest families, the poorest people and young people. Dear House, I ask you to put on the agenda, at the beginning of the next parliamentary term, the tasks relating to climate change, the opposition proposals for declaring the climate crisis, initiated by the LMP, and we will summarize the most important tasks in the proposal for a resolution, because the announcement of the climate crisis is not a nice word, but a start to action. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-12-17-2	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Tamás Schanda, State Secretary, responds. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-12-17-3	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The fact is that when we listen to the repeated speeches of opposition representatives in order to protect climate protection, we will always be disappointed, because you are constantly flogging the government that it should be done to protect climate protection, while you are doing nothing, staying at the level of sound political promises and not talking about specifics. [[Depletion in the lines of the LMP.]] Their statements only hide that they do not have any substantive proposals on this very important issue. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: Yes, you can.]] And the government has been following up on what has been done in this direction. A week ago, Jobbik here in Parliament said that new background institutions, additional bureaucracy, are needed to combat climate change. This is also a whole new type of approach. I suggest, honourable Member, that if you have become such good friends, at least introduce them into the meaning of the fight against climate protection, or at least agree, as this area is particularly new to them. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It's about the protection of the created world, our environmental heritage, our future together. The government is acting with this knowledge. We're working to make our country the winner of changed circumstances. Hungary has strong climate protection objectives, we have set strong targets, a firm action plan and measures. He mentioned the European Council meeting. Allow me to respond to that, too. No one doubts the importance of combating climate change. But it also has to be seen that this comes at a high price and can be expressed in cash. The carbon neutrality to be achieved by 2050 would cost Hungary some HUF 50 000 billion. This means that each year, divided by 10 million citizens, from infants to the oldest, should spend 170 thousand forints each year for this purpose. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and At the European Council, Hungary has succeeded, and this is indisputable, and it is out of the question. Indeed, the chances of making future climate protection rules pay not to the poorer countries, not to the poorer people when it comes to the costs of action against climate change have been achieved. [[13.10]] So we have managed not to take money from Member States affected by catching up in order to combat climate protection. It is also possible and particularly important to adopt rules to encourage the use of nuclear energy, and there is also a chance that climate protection will not result in an increase in both fuel prices, energy prices and food prices. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As much as the opposition doesn't like to hear it, because it goes through their political calculations, which are not very steely, but it has to be said, and it has to be acknowledged that you have said that Hungary is a climate champion We are one of those countries, and let us be proud of that, which has been the most reduced carbon dioxide emissions since 1990. We therefore agree with the aim of ensuring that the European economy is climate-neutral, which is why the government's decisions and actions are made. That is why we have already taken the concrete measure that by 2030 90 percent of Hungarian energy production will be emission-free, and we will comply with that. [[Interviews from the lines of LMP and Dialogue.]] But we also need to see that today only 9 percent of world emissions are related to Europe. The large countries are significantly more polluting, and it should also be pointed out that Hungary has reduced greenhouse gas emissions by 32% compared to the 1990 reference period. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Not emissions, but GDP increased around 5 percent last year, as GDP growth was 4.9 percent, while GHG emissions decreased by 0.6 percent in 2018. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-17-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Tamás Harangozó, from the MSZP Group, spoke before the agenda with a title on current affairs. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-12-17-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, An emergency meeting had to be convened today to renegotiate and adopt T/8016. Bill No. 2, the vote of which was ruined last week by Fidesz. I think it is important to say what this proposal is really about, since it is safe to say that, unfortunately, we are talking about a proposal of historic importance in terms of eliminating the political independence of the judiciary. It is not a question of increasing the salary of judges or of changing the administrative judiciary, since that is not at all the point, unlike the title of this proposal. One of the most serious points of the proposal is that the President of the Republic appoints the members of the Constitutional Court as judges of the Curia at their request. The request of the members of the Constitutional Court cannot be refused by the President of the Republic, the proposal submitted by the Government expressly provides that the conditions for appointment cannot be examined by the President of the Republic and that a tender for filling the position of judge cannot be issued. This means that any constitutional judge can be a judge of the Curia as requested, so that the two-thirds majority of the Fidesz-KDNP in Parliament can fill the Curia, which is the supreme judicial forum, with political appointees, i.e. its own people. However, the bill goes even further. It introduces the precedent system known in the Anglo-Saxon legal system. In this context, the content of any decision taken by the Curia will be binding on the lower-level courts. This means that not only the justification of the laws will now prevail for the courts, but also the decisions of the Curia which interpret them. And this makes courthouses of a lower level than the Mansion a virtually legal robot. The other part of the proposal concerning justice will concern not the courts, but directly the citizens, since it gives every public authority the right to lodge a constitutional complaint. This is also a huge hypocrisy in itself, because it was this government that took away the right to direct citizens to the Constitutional Court. The situation is therefore clear: the essence of Viktor Orbán's system and system building is that no one and nothing can remain in the country, who can function, decide or even exist independently of him. And after the fall of Tünde Hando, he wants to bring independent justice to its knees with this insidious but more secure solution. His political appointees will first be released by the two-thirds decision of the judge of the Constitution, and then the President and Presidents of the Chamber, who will then challenge the judges who judge with a legal unit decision. And if the system is still unable to make the right decisions against the state, i.e. Fidesz, then the Constitutional Court will come and put things right, whether it is a NAV decision or even an election body's decision establishing the victory of the opposition. The circle is closed, so it will display the will of the party of state and its leader, not through the administration of the courts, but through the judgment itself, as opposed to the rule of law, as opposed to the truth, as opposed to the citizens of the country, if necessary. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I think there are not too many of you who have read this 200-page proposal, and we know exactly that, as usual, black soup comes with a little honeycomb, a salary increase for judges and prosecutors, which was subsequently put into this law, and which, by the way, was simply voted off last week. Of course, they wisely listen to the fact that the draft law on wage increases for policemen and soldiers, which they promised, was not finally submitted to the House. Let's just say the latter is understandable, because there's something to build a treadmill on Felcsú. But aside from the joke, honourable Members, they have only read the history book, but they have some idea of the regimes that are politically subjugating independent justice. You must have some idea of what the end of these systems is, of all the sacrifices, fear, vulnerability, fighting and blood that have led to the development of politically independent justice in this country in hundreds of years! If anything, this case should be sacred in this House. Please don't vote for this bill. Thank you for listening.
u2019-12-17-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, replied to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-12-17-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, We've had a very interesting discussion over the last few minutes, and I think in any science-fiction magazine, he could have stood up. If you think about it, you've been saying nine years that independent justice has ceased in Hungary. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches. Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Excuse me.]] that judicial independence is in danger, and in the last nine years, they have not been able to say one case when the judgment was influenced by anyone on the political side. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches. Defiance from the MSZ, from the dialogue.]] Why are we sitting here on this subject? If you'd read your address, Congressman, it's about one-degree district offices. In this context, of course, the judicial redress system had to be adapted, partly thanks to your work, which was done in Brussels, Strasbourg and other places. There was a political scandal around the fact that the Hungarian Parliament decided on administrative courts in line with Hungarian legal traditions, which concerned independent and independent administrative courts. [[13.20]] And after the government withdrew its proposal in the light of political storms and in Parliament it was necessary to provide for the functioning of the administration and the court system adapted to it, you are again afraid of the independence of the courts, yelling at the fact that it is now completely abolished. They don't tell us how, because the process of the selection of judges doesn't change, the government doesn't appoint judges, the courts choose them. You refer to the system of legal unit decisions, which will be included, precisely so that there is a uniform judicial case law and legal certainty in this country, which is also determined by the courts. If the Member had read the 200 pages he mentioned that we had not read, he would have seen that the courts, the judges, could have deviated from these decisions of the legal unit, he would only have to justify the uniqueness of the case he had to deviate from. So judicial independence is not violated. In addition, the other part is the Constitutional Court. Today, there are about 3,000 judges in Hungary, and there are 15 judges in the Constitutional Court. At times, when their assignment expires, honest lawyers may need to provide a career that matches what they have done until then and, let's say, not resume their legal career in a court of law. Maybe it's a appreciated, meaningful decision. The other part is that the courts, the Constitutional Court, also, after deciding on individual cases in the established system, are actually carrying out judicial activities if there has been a breach of the Fundamental Law. So to assume that the lawyers there do not have the necessary professional background, perhaps most of them came from the courts, and it may be that the level of the mansion is better adapted to the practice that they carry out in the Constitutional Court, if you attack it and consider it to be an intervention in the independence of the courts, that is a somewhat questionable statement, given the numbers. I'm sorry to have burdened you with such statistics. As far as the whole system is concerned: you have a lion's share of the fact that there is a single court system left, that it has to be adapted to this now, in line with the administrative changes, so that the judicial system, the redress system, is in place. This is what we are looking at, and you are trying to slander us with all kinds of slanders, when the appearance of the judicial path in administrative matters raises precisely the guarantee level for those who are debating decisions and administrative decisions with the State. Who is the most competent forum to decide that? Obviously, the court, which is an independent branch of power, no matter how much they dispute this principle. It was very interesting when the Member spoke about centuries-old traditions, because the traditions of the left in Hungary do not exist as independent judges. In connection with the debate of the administrative court, it was mentioned that in 49 your predecessors abolished this on the grounds that it was a bourgeois failure that was not needed in popular democracy. It is necessary in our democracy. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-17-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Mr Bence Tordai, notary of the Parliament, has applied for a pre-meeting speech with the title "On Current Affairs" from the Group of Dialogue. Here you go.
u2019-12-17-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, For nine years, we have become accustomed to the will of the people of power in Hungary. Then came a talented leader, co-president of the Dialogue, Gergely Christmas, and he said it was time for the power of the people of power to finally prevail instead of the will of the people of power. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's why you're firing everyone!]] In order to do this, he obtained the support of the majority of Budapest's Republic Party during the pre-elections, and won the election of the Mayor on 13 October, thus gaining the place of Hungary's highest directly elected public-law dignity. It is important not only because the Fidesz has been defeated, but also because it is now apparent that after a few months you can see the difference between the exercise of power and the power of the Republican majority. If we look at what measures have been put in place, what decisions have been taken by you and what have been made by Gergely Christmas and the majority of the capital in practice, then we will see how the difference between these two concepts is shown. You practically want to control culture, the appointment of theatre directors and everything else you have access to by means of a party state. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Christmas did this! He's dismissed Ban Theodora!]] Compared to this, the majority of Gergely Christmas and Budapest's Republic Parties have stood up for the freedom of theatres and culture and the autonomy of culture in tens of thousands. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Christmas appoints the leaders of the theatres as politicians.]] That's why you're forced to keep explaining, trying to clear your dirty policy through fake news and trumped-up charges. And then here's the case of the independence of the courts, which you want to eliminate in a detour. They have withdrawn from the establishment of administrative courts, but they want to leave the dirty work to the Constitutional Court filled with Fidesz delegates in a very shady and at least as effective way. Compared to this, Gergely Christmas and the majority of the Republicans of Budapest have adopted regulations that ensure the city's more transparent operation, accountability and anti-corruption power. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Three-day Trust Proposal!]] Then there is the Media Council, which you filled last week with only fidesz delegates, and here it is, as we are in the media, the case of journalists who have been excluded from Parliament's corridors and excluded from the vicinity of Viktor Orbán's new study because you are afraid of independent media. You can only imagine and apply the model of a Party State propaganda media. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The Forbidden Lokal!]] Compared to this, Gergely Christmas and the majority of the Republicans in Budapest prevent the dissemination of propaganda, break up that shameful contract and hand over the public space to a balanced paper. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Finally! Democracy is here!]] Then there's the amendment of the Parliamentary Act and the House Rule, which is aptly called the mouth lock bill. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's Vacon. Oops!]] Oops, right? Oops! [[Intercoms.]] Okay, I'm glad the Fidesz people stop yelling, because according to the law you voted for, this could cost you serious money from 1 January, or even banning you. Please don't destroy the dignity of the Parliament. Compared to this, Gergely Christmas opened the gates of the Town Hall, and the meetings of the General Assembly are regularly followed by hundreds. Then there's the matter of the Social Security Act. You want to exclude hundreds of thousands or even over one million Hungarian citizens from the possibility of free healthcare. You are eliminating the national risk community, and it is no coincidence that even János Áder has not signed this shameful law; we hope that he will not. Gergely Christmas and Budapest are also examples of solidarity, as the unemployed can use public transport free of charge from next year. And then there's the slave law that you voted for a year ago, and you've been protecting me until the end of the day, which is in the interest of the big corporations of multinationals and fidesz oligarchs instead of the interests of the people. Compared to this, Budapest has also banned the use of this. Or there is the climate bill, the climate crisis, which was not recognised for long, and then their position became so insufferable that they finally adopted the resolution proposal of the opposition parties and the bill of dialogue. Compared to this, Gergely Christmas has already announced the climate crisis in Budapest, and they are doing their best to manage it in a sustainable way. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: In Zuglo, how many trees did Christmas cut down? He wiped out the trees in a corner!]] You see, this is the difference between ruling according to the logic of the people of power and representing the power of the people, as does Gergely Christmas and the majority of Republicists, and the factions still in opposition here in Parliament, including the green left-wing community of Dialogue. Thank you for listening.
u2019-12-17-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would also ask my fellow pro-government Members to listen to the speech and please do not shout. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: We read that it is a dialogue!]] On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to the statement made before the agenda by Mr Bence Tordai. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-12-17-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, You've brought up a lot of topics, let me answer. As far as the slave law is concerned, what you claimed almost a year ago has been proven to be a complete lie. The only place we know is where a mother with a child was fired because she refused to work overtime, and this is Joseph City. [[Dr. Pál Völner: András Piko!]] He also referred to the theaters. There's only one mayor who told us who couldn't be the theater director in the future, and we know one who moved the theater director, and he's called Gergely Christmas. [[13.30]] As far as the media is concerned, I can see that you are concerned; if you are so concerned with the diversity of the media, I suggest you look at the newspaper Józsefváros and count how many times the new mayor is involved. As for the matter of the mouth lock, I suggest you visit Vác, because that is where a decree has been issued that does not allow employees to comment. We're talking about your mayor's ally, and they probably agreed on that. As far as the measures are concerned, honourable Member, I think it is worth talking about, because as the people of Budapest open Christmas presents, they can increasingly find out what colorful ribbons and beautiful packaging are hiding. In one package, traffic charges, in the other, super-hospital shutdown, in a third, a bunch of new positions, with increased salaries for you. On a little note, it says that the closure of the program, Liget Budapest, in the meantime, if we listen, we can hear the muffle of the Krampus called Czeglédy from a few districts, because the screening was entrusted. But the biggest surprise I've ever seen is the reappearance of people from the past. Well, they don't arrive on the chimney, they're not on a reindeer's sled, they're called by Christmas Gregory, and we see other boxes. They have one thing in common: a tax increase, a tax increase, a tax increase, a garage tax, a construction tax, and many other real estate taxes. It's been a few weeks, but they've already lifted them. And this is not the collection of gifts that many people expected here in Budapest. [[Bence of Turda: You're lying!]] It would've been better if they hadn't given these to me, not now, not later. Allow me to bring up one more case here in this House because it is serious and it affects you. It is well known that an actress was molested in one of the theatres in Budapest, and we also know that it is not an isolated case. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] After that, the representative of the Dialogue at a committee meeting on 10 December made a good joke about the case. [[Bence of Turda: You're lying! Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: It's not true!]] Sándor Burány could say that these cases are not harassment, but coercion. It's co-operation. [[Noise from the opposition.]] Honourable Congressman, It's invaluable! [[Interview from the ranks of Fidesz: Your faction! The president's ringing the bell.]] Since then, there has been total silence in this case for PM representatives, although they were quite combative before, between us. Szabó Timea lit a lamp in memory of the victims, demanding the appointment of Governor Gergely Christmas, who would act against violence against women. There was also an example of the organisation of flashmobs, the marching of civil society organisations with glued mouths on their sides, and there was no sitting in this House that would not demand the ratification of the Istanbul Convention. After all this, Sándor Burány comes and has fun with harassment. This is serious in itself, but even more so, the celebrity advocates are silent everywhere. [[Bence of Turda: Because you're lying, that's why!]] No protests, no loud banner, no voice, no Facebook live, no stray petition, no word. Perhaps it's just that one of your fellow Members said that Congressman Burány has a good sense of humor. She's invincible! Dear Members of the PMs, Now you have two roads ahead of you. One way is right, it is about taking action, and they will not leave it without consequences, and they will interrupt cooperation with this Member. The other option is they're still laying low. If you choose this path, you will have nothing in the future, but you will have no basis to hold anyone accountable for human rights and moral matters. [[Bence of Turdai: Fake news!]] If you do, you're the stalkers and you're on the side of people who have fun in brutal cases. Decide which way you choose, the responsibility is grave, and in this case, it's on your shoulders. I wish you a peaceful Christmas. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-12-17-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, At the same time, Mr László György Lukács, notary of the Parliament, has applied for a pre-scheduled speech from the Jobbik Group:, How long does the government abuse the patience of the people? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-12-17-13	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Are you proud of the lighting, Prime Minister? This is what is being asked in social media that the Prime Minister is proud of the fact that the Puskás Stadium is lit day and night, because it is indeed the case that the stadium that was built is lit day and night, and they said that they are proud of it, and instead of the voters, the residents of social media, say that they would turn off this lighting and instead turn on the lights at Jahn Ferenc South-Pest Hospital on duty. Because what happened, my fellow Members, at the hospital in South Pest, was that six of seven surgeons resigned a few days ago. They are the specialists without whom it will be difficult to organize an on-call, although there are some, and we know the reasoning, there are other doctors in this department, but in order to be able to provide safe care there, these seven surgeons, but at least six of them, would have been needed. They stood up, ladies and gentlemen, for their work at the hospital in South Pest, because there is so much pressure and so little money from the state in return that it is simply impossible to carry out work responsibly anymore. That's how they protest against the destruction of health care at Viktor's. And, well, who knows, my fellow Members, how will the surgical care of hundreds of thousands of people in South Pest or Budapest develop? Will you be able to get enough doctors to take care of patients in the South Pest hospital area in the middle of the night? Are you going to be on surgical duty in most parts of Pest, or are you going to wait for additional lights to be turned off? Dear Secretary of State, We know the Ministry's argument, and you're saying that this hospital continues to work very well, and that surgical care is appropriate. Just, Mr. Secretary, why would the hospital on Facebook have to recruit an immediate workforce with an advertisement specifically for those positions of doctors leaving? They are built on a series, ladies and gentlemen, the stadiums of our professional football teams, the power has decided to send Hungarian astronauts into space, the luxury of the Turk Council is paid for by us, and even the billions are leaning on the government centre set up in the Buda Castle. At this rate, Mr. Secretary of State, there will be no one to turn off the lights. But if we look at Buda and not just stay in Pest, then there's the Kútvölgyi block, the Kútvölgyi block of Semmelweis University, which a year ago was known to move, and we got to the point where we should move in 14 days, but no one knows where it's going, especially the workers and, above all, the patients are at risk. They don't even know where to go. They're completely vulnerable. Clearly, what you're going to do isn't a super hospital, it's going to be a super mess. That's what's going on with the well valley block, and that's the news. New news has come in, and it shows the government's health policy that hospitals have suppliers of 70 billion forints in debt and record debt were told to pay immediately by the government. I quote: "We call on the Government of Hungary to settle the debts immediately, because such debt causes serious problems not only in the management of debt financing companies, but also in the form of a threat to patient care in Hungary. Well, here we are, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Secretary of State, that you do not pay the suppliers of hospitals. We know the consequences of this: surgery will be delayed, waiting lists will gain weight, and more doctors will resign as they did in South Pest. And what's the government's answer to that? They're building two new hospitals. Kenya! In fact, they got to the point of setting up an oncology hospital in Vietnam. They build hospitals here, let them break down somewhere else. Let's not be surprised that it's a straight line to the adoption of the Social Security Act. Wherever you may, you will kick the Hungarian patients! 700,000 people will be left without health care with this bill, with this law. In fact, if we are to say so, Mr Secretary of State, let us look at Hungary's health performance in the European Union and in this regard. The thing is, Mr. Secretary, you leave 38,000 people to die in a way that can be saved. To bring another Gunner's comparison: this is the amount that could fill virtually 67,000 stadiums in two years, it would be possible to avoid the deaths of 38,000 people twice, you will lose a Puskás stadium of people in two years. Hungary is ranked first in cancer, it produces the worst statistics, and Hungarian people spend most of their own pockets on health care, which is also outrageous. Allow me to think and see that what you have done, and I'm not sure about that, but this is what it looks like, in fact, a revenge campaign against the Hungarians with the disgraced health. And allow me one last fact about the Gunnery Arena: they say that from the top of the Gunnery Arena to the High Tatras, from the top of the stadium. But you know, Mr. Secretary, it would also be enough for Viktor Orbán to stand up there and look around the city and see how many Hungarians remain unattended. You would see that the health situation of people in Budapest has been the worst in the past and that health care has been destroyed. So go over there and see what Budapest is like from above and how Hungarian patients live! Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-12-17-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. The reply to Mr Rétvári's speech before the agenda will be given on behalf of the Government by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[13.40]]
u2019-12-17-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, There are places where Fidesz-KDNP is responsible for health care, and there are places where Jobbik is. It's the Jobbik. In 2014, the budget for healthcare in the Ózd budget was HUF 60.5 million, and by 2018, HUF 60.5 million was reduced to HUF 50.6 million. [[Dr. László György Lukács: State Reserved!]] On the other hand, the budget submitted and adopted by Fidesz-KDNP for next year contains HUF 770 billion more for health purposes than the budget submitted by your allies in 2010. [[Interviews from Jobbik: State Reserved!]] In your case, where you could decide on health resources, it was reduced, where Fidesz-KDNP could decide on resources, this increased. Mr President, you have mentioned international comparisons. You yourself know the comparison of the OECD that, when your allies governed Hungary, Hungary was the only country where health expenditure per capita decreased in proportion to GDP, and since 2010 the OECD survey of OECD states has seen the 7th highest rate of increase in Hungarian health expenditure in the EU Member States, honourable Member. In your case, a reduction, in your allies, since 2010, has been an increase since the Fidesz-KDNP, honourable Member. As regards your material errors with regard to Jahn Ferenc South Pest Hospital, honourable Member [[István Szilárd Németh: It's not a mistake, it's a lie!]] 23 surgeons working at the hospital [[Intercom from Jobbik: How many residents? How many specialists?]] which you have been trying to say is that seven surgeons are working there, and the care has collapsed, because six of those surgeons are no longer working there, while the hospital is actually in a two-month retirement meeting with these doctors, but these doctors are still working, honourable Member. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: I am calm!]] If either you or any of the Internet portals that reported that were trying to find out the truth, you wouldn't have run into this very nasty numerical error. If they had contacted the hospital before writing the article, they would have contacted the maintenance ÁEEK before writing the article, they would have contacted the press department of the Ministry of Maintenance. [[Dr. László György Lukács: They would have lied about something!]] Before writing this article, they wouldn't have run into a statement that there are 7 doctors working while 23 doctors are working in this area. They're gonna make such mistakes and make mistakes just to get any hospital out of here at any moment. Because there may have been someone there who whispered something from the union to one of the journalists, and without asking the hospital's management whether or not there is a doctor in this department, they said that there was only one doctor left out of the 7 doctors, while 23 doctors are working on this task, honourable Member. And you stand up here in Parliament when the hospital's correction has already been made and you say it with the same faceless face. He tells you how few doctors there are at Jahn Ferenc South Pest Hospital, while with the same proud face you told me ten years ago how proud you were of bringing 62 doctors to Ireland. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Lies!]] Hungary. Here in Parliament, he says there's only one doctor left. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Lies! Kásler is the biggest exporter of medicine! He admitted it to the board.]] And that's terrible, while you were trying to be an exporter of medicine in the media, honourable Member. And he also forgot to mention that in recent months, the government has decided to provide additional budget support for the traumas in the order of tens of billions, if I look at this year and next year, the government has also decided on additional funding for vascular surgeons. [[Complaining from Jobbik's ranks: It's starting to collapse!]] He also forgot to say thank you to this hospital for providing 38,000 patients a year, for providing 90-100 patients in the ER 24 hours a day, thanking doctors in the 50-bed rooms of the surgical ward. And you also forgot to say, honourable Member, that two years ago, this government provided an additional source of 125 million forints for the full reconstruction of this hospital, the emergency department of the hospital in South Pest. So you, I think, didn't really get the morals of exporting doctors to insult these hospitals here in Parliament. But your allies, they weren't so subtle, they shut down the children's hospital in Svábhegy, OPNI, Szabolcs Street Hospital, Schöpf-Merei Hospital, they flattened 16,000 beds, they just laid off 6,000 medical workers, took a month's rent from everyone, and tried to keep patients away from hospitals with a visit fee and a hospital allowance. This is your governance. [[Dr. László György Lukács: We have never even steered!]] This is your policy, honourable Member. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: We'll steer!]] On the other hand, since 2010, we have renovated 91 rural hospitals in whole or in part, honourable Member, we have managed to modernise 54 clinics and modernise 107 rescue stations, and we have also built 23 completely new clinics and 34 rescue stations, honourable Member. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: The sad thing is that you don't believe it! I can tell you don't believe it.]] Your policy and the policies of your allies have clearly shown the withdrawal of resources in health care, privatisation and internationalisation of Hungarian doctors and Hungarian nurses. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Yeah, right! Kasler confessed personally to the committee meeting about how many people he sent out.]] To continue to increase resources in health care, Fidesz-KDNP is the only guarantee. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-17-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the Group of the KDNP, submitted a speech before the agenda entitled primarily human behaviour and non-political product. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2019-12-17-17	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Creative protection has been part of Christian culture for 2,000 years. This means attitude and attitude. It includes the aspects that we now call nature conservation, environmental protection, sustainable development or climate protection. The story has three characters, nature, man and human activity. Nature meets everyone who admires a landscape for its beauty, a flora changing from season to season, or the variety of animal life, but especially the law that governs this world. Man is a part of nature, but on the other hand he is superior. According to the Christian teaching, the Creator entrusted man with the world to cultivate and guard it. Guarding means passing it on to the next generation as he receives it, and cultivation means using the wonderful gift that we call creative ability, i.e. having a responsible owner of the created world. This, of course, also means that, in contrast to the extreme eccentric and biocentric approach, we say that there is an ontological and valuable difference between man and other organisms. Today, the most important message of the idea of creation protection is that the environmental crisis must be dealt with by changing attitudes and behaviour. In this sense, let us say that this question is of an anthropological nature. And now we have reached the issue of human activity, which is the most powerful cause of the current crisis. Above all, however, we must say that the achievements of science and technology are positive in themselves. The problem lies in the Utilitarian economic model, the sole aspect of which is profit maximization. Short-term economic interest conflicts with the long-term interest of mankind. The time has come for us to rethink some terms, the concepts of development, progress, growth and prosperity. There must be a limit to production and consumption constraints within the framework of sustainability. Sustainability means nothing more than consumption that can be replaced. The created world can only regenerate to a certain extent. I am convinced that responsible farming and protecting the environment are compatible, but this requires a change of mentality and lifestyle. This is the most important idea of the various revelations of Christian churches, of which I mention only a few in the headlines: the 2008 Episcopal Circular for the Protection of the Created World, or the recent encyclical of Pope Francis, perhaps known as the Patmoszi Recommendations. The protection of the environment cannot in any way serve economic and party policy interests. [[13.50]] This is a matter of national unity and international cooperation. In conclusion, it is also worth saying a few words that there are European and domestic issues in dealing with the crisis. In order to meet the 2030 and 50 climate targets, and to achieve this, the major restructuring of the economies is a task undertaken by all Member States, but the costs are such that they can be covered only by external assistance, according to the government's estimate of HUF 50,000 billion. Hungary also expects help from the EU. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-17-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Government, Mr Schanda Tamás State Secretary responds to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-12-17-19	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, We can all agree that climate protection, i.e. the protection of the created world and our environmental heritage, is a priority issue. I believe that this should be a common cause, as you have said, above the parties, and that everyone must fight together to preserve our world, our planet, and pass it on to our children, at least in the condition in which we are inherited. We have a great deal of work to do in this fight, and as we know, we have heard, it has a serious cost. Honourable Congressman, The Fidesz-KDNP government supports the EU's climate targets, but there is a high price to pay for this today, as carbon neutrality in 2050 would cost our country some HUF 50 000 billion. During the negotiations, Prime Minister said that we can take on the target if we do not have the Hungarian people to pay for it. The costs must also involve the polluting countries and the polluting large companies, as their responsibility is the greatest. Nor is it permissible to increase food prices or increase energy prices in order to achieve the commitments. In Hungary, this is particularly important, because we want to preserve and protect the results of the reduction of the rent, and we will continue to protect the interests of Hungarian families. It is also not possible for Hungary to bear the costs for those Member States that have undertaken to catch up with the EU economy over the coming decades. The EU has so far developed a serious counter-opinion on the use of nuclear energy, but it is necessary to accept the fact that more and more people accept that without nuclear power, there is no way to fight climate change effectively. It is therefore possible to adopt rules that support and encourage the use of nuclear energy. Honourable Congressman, Hungary really takes the dangers of climate change seriously and acts to benefit our country. We are in agreement with the EU's 2030 targets, and we have already talked about this more than that, which means 90 percent of our energy production will be emission-free by 2030. In order to protect the created world, we have goals, plans and measures. At the same time, we also need to see that Hungary's emissions are dwarfed alongside the large pollutants. We also need to see that the only way to reduce greenhouse gas emissions is to increase our economic performance. This Hungary succeeded in 2018 and we increased our economic performance by reducing greenhouse gas emissions. We have the sixth lowest emission indicator, which means 6.3 tonnes/person/year in Europe. Compared to this, the German output is 10.94 tonnes, the Dutch is 11.51 tonnes; but you can also say the data of the United States, 20.13 tonnes or even Saudi Arabia, is 25.7 tonnes. The EU target for the share of renewable energy by 2020 has already been achieved in 2011 and has been exceeded since then. With regard to climate-neutral energy production, Hungary is now performing better than most countries in the European Union, including Austria, Cyprus, Ireland, Malta, Portugal, Spain, not only did it reduce but also increased its greenhouse gas emissions in recent years. Hungary is in that part of the EU Member States which have made the largest reductions in the last thirty years and which have the best data. Honourable Congressman, We all want cleaner air, clean water and a more bearable climate, but action can and must be taken to this end. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-17-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Czunyiné Bertalan, Member of the Fidesz Group, spoke before the agenda. [[Moore in the opposition benches.]] Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-12-17-21	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, The news in the press that the well-known Metropolitan Katona József Theatre has terminated its contract with immediate effect [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Not again!]] one of his directors, who, however, is banned from his institution. Throughout the time since then, it has become known... [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] Madam Congresswoman, you have the opportunity to speak if there is an important subject on the agenda. [[Lajos Korózs: You don't have a chance! Dr. Bence Rétvári: The faction has withdrawn the opportunity!]] During the time since then, it has become known to the public that the person who has been acting with his colleagues in a way that crosses several moral boundaries is Péter Gothár, who has been political in the former SZDSZ colours. It's outrageous that even after this case exploded, this teat was still trying to cover for the Kossuth Prize-winning director. This was done by the management of the theatre, along with the Balliberal elite, who, in other cases, so loudly and warily wish to play a protective role. Dear House, On 9 December, at a meeting of a committee of the Hungarian Parliament, during which the University of Theatre and Film Arts just got rid of Péter Gothár, former Minister of the Medgyessy Government, Sándor Burány, the Member of the Parliament of the Dialogue, said he was free to make a very spicy comment on sexual harassment against women. However, it is regrettable that my fellow Member has simply called harassment cases of public opinion a coercion. The manner in which Ildikó Ildikó Bangóné Borbély acted in the meantime, who, sitting directly next to Sándor Burány at this committee meeting, laughed only in food. To be honest, it is worrying that my Balliberal fellow Member has a smile on his face to define a crime of this weight as a co-operative compulsion. Disappointment is also caused by... [[Bence of Turdai keeps talking to the speaker.]] It is also disappointing that Szabó Timea, the leader of the Dialogue Group, does not yet condemn the representation of his party's representative; he is doing this in an unusual way, since in all other cases he is the one who so loudly rings the alarm when committing acts against women that violate their personal or physical integrity. Why don't you put a red band-aid on your mouth right now to protest? [[Bence of Turdai: Because...! The president's ringing the bell.]] I asked my colleague from Turda, Szabó Timea. If you're Szabó Timea, we'll accept your answer. Ladies and gentlemen, Double standards should not be applied when there is a reasonable suspicion of sexual harassment. That is why I would like to ask my fellow Members not only to be large women's defenders when the perpetrator does not belong to the Balliberal political side, but also in the case of every harassment against women, regardless of which side of the person concerned belongs to the moonyard. I therefore ask the other warlike defender of Szabó Timea why he does not condemn his fellow Member's sentences. I ask why you do not exclude Sándor Burány from the Dialogue Group. Why are you silent, my fellow Member? [[14.00]] Or wasn't he the one who gave out candles in the Chamber to commemorate victims of violence against women? [[Dr. Pál Völner: Shame on you!]] I would therefore like to draw the attention of my fellow Members in opposition to women's rights. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] that their said behavior... [[It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell. To László Szászfalvi's Turdai Bence: Listen to it!]] I would therefore like to draw the attention of my fellow women's advocates. [[László Szászfalvi: Respect!]] That their behavior is directed towards the women whose words are so often raised in their defense. It is also incomprehensible that neither Ildikó Borbély nor Timea Szabó have previously voted for the amendment of the Criminal Code aimed at tightening up crimes against women. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] The representatives of the Fidesz-KDNP Party Association condemn any manifestation, whether physical or verbal, which violates or otherwise undermines women's dignity. Following a thorough investigation of such cases, all persons in this House must act in a uniform manner without applying double standards. Mr President, Thank you for your attention, thank you for the floor. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-12-17-22	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, we will hear the answer to the statement made before the agenda by Mrs Bence Rétvári. [[Intercom from Jobbik's benches: Fix them, Bence! Hard!]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-12-17-23	Thank you very much for the floor. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, As the congresswoman described, the situation is simple. The Dialogue either agrees with Sándor Burány's words or not. If the Dialogue agrees with Sándor Burány's words and says that sexual harassment is just a coercion, then he has done nothing. And if you don't agree with that, [[Bence of Turdai interrupts. The president's ringing the bell.]] Either you call on Sándor Burány to withdraw his words, or you call on him to leave the Group of Dialogue, or you will exclude Sándor Burány from the faction if Sándor Burány refuses to apologize and follow the public after this statement. It would be that simple. The faction of dialogue doesn't do anything. So the Group of Dialogue therefore agrees with Sándor Burány's expression at the committee meeting last week. Unfortunately, I see that you have been left alone by a congresswoman who is always trying to defend the victims. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Oh, really? And what about Laszlo Marton?]] Because when Ildikó Bangóné Borbély petitioned, she was joined by Anett Bősz, Márta Demeter, Zita Gurmai, Krisztina Hohn, Ágnes Kunhalmi, Anita Potocskané Kőrösi, Erzsébet Schmuck, Timea Szabó, Bernadett Szél, Ágnes Vadai, Andrea Varga-Damm, everyone was there, everyone signed, everyone petitioned earlier. They tried to bid on each other in various cases. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: And I asked you to send László Marton from Veszprém, but you didn't send him away. He died, that was the solution.]] Now, when it comes to a theatre director belonging to the Balliberal side, it is about the theater leadership that disembowels the case when it comes to Mayor Gergely Christmas, who does not appear in the case, and Gy. This is about Deputy Mayor Erzsébet Németh, or this is about Mr Sándor Burány, then no one writes a petition, does not make one call, does not organise any action. How is that possible? How is it possible that in the case of the theater, the communication of the capital is just that the case is closed, there's nothing to see here? ! There is no responsibility for the person who spent 11 months for 11 months! He's trying to get rid of the case, he's trying to hide it. There is no responsibility for anyone who doesn't help the victim, but for the unsub. He's hiding it from the media. He won't give up his name. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] For example, I would organise hearings at the University of Dramatic Arts without having to meet journalists, while in other cases precisely representatives from the Balliberal side use media and press publicity to put even more focus on the case and, on the other hand, to put even more pressure on the perpetrator. Now, on the other hand, it is only hiding and covering that was typical of the Balliberal side, ladies and gentlemen. How is it possible that his pieces can continue to be played for such a director, that Congressman Sándor Burány will continue to sit here in Parliament? If you don't think so, Sándor Burány, why didn't you apologize for that? [[Bence of Turdai: Because there was nothing to apologize for!]] Why didn't you come out to the public in the same way you did at a public committee meeting saying that there was only coercion and non-sexual violence or molestation? Why is it that, as the congresswoman said, opposition representatives did not vote for the amendment of the social law when we created secret asylums to protect victims of similar acts of violence? How is it possible that during the three cycles of their own government, they have not once included the facts of the violence, but that Fidesz-KDNP has introduced this into the Criminal Code and that they have not voted for the Criminal Code and this amendment by opposition representatives? How come they're only loud when there's a press conference about a non-baliberal-sided unsub or when it's usually about the phenomenon? This shows the kind of duplicity or hypocrisy that it is never the protection of the victims or the action that disturbs them, only in this, they see a political weapon, a political revolver, that when it is not a person closely related to their political side, they should act against it and use this tool against them. Here before the agenda was the opportunity of the Dialogue Group to stand up and apologize for Sándor Burány's words. Or he says that Sándor Burány will apologize for those words. He had a five-minute chance here, but he didn't even make a half-word reference to it that the Dialogue didn't agree with this sentence, or Sándor Burány apologizes to the public. He had a five-minute window. He said all kinds of lies in his five minutes, but that's the only straight and honest sentence he ever left his mouth. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-12-17-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and Gentlemen, Please secure the House's quorum. We are taking a two-minute technical break in order to do this, and we are taking this opportunity to give out the gift and symbolic Christmas gift of the Members of the House and of Mr Ferenc Koncz, representative of the Szerencs. Please don't exceed two minutes. [[It's a short break. Ferenc Koncz gives chocolates to the pro-government representatives.]] And since the caravan has to move forward, I ask you to stop handing out presents now. It will be possible to buy this for everyone outside the break and the meeting room. We'll continue our work now. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda. Here you go, notary.
u2019-12-17-25	Dear Parliament, Péter Ágh, Fidesz; Zsolt Nyitrai, Fidesz; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Brenner Koloman, Jobbik; Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik; Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Róbert Dudás, Jobbik.
u2019-12-17-26	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear House, I declare that the Government is the 35th Act on Parliament. T/8016 on the amendment of certain laws in connection with the establishment of single-level district office procedures. For the purpose of negotiating bill No 1. [[14.10]] The letter and its annexes can all be viewed and viewed on the website. Dear Parliament, It is now time to set the agenda for our meeting starting today. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time shall be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] It's a visible majority. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, The debate on the legislative report and the proposed amendment to the Act on the amendment of certain laws in connection with the establishment of single-level district office procedures, adopted by the Parliament on 10 December 2019, is now taking place, which is sent back for consideration by the President of the Republic. Text of the Act sent to the President of the Republic for signature T/8016/12, letter from the President of the Republic T/8016/13. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. The Legislative Committee's amendment proposal is T/8016/15 and T/8016/16. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee, within a 15-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-12-17-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 17 December 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/8016 on the amendment of certain laws in connection with the establishment of single-level district office procedures. Bill No. 1. The report of the committee of the house rule 78. By 31 votes in favour, no votes against, with 4 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The law before us will continue to achieve the objectives set out in the concept of the General Administrative Regulation Act, whose main purpose is to ensure that the shortest possible period between the opening of the administrative procedure and the decision of a judicial authority which has taken it is the shortest possible period of time. The Akr. Since its entry into force, on the basis of the available data, it is appropriate to establish a single administrative procedural model as a result of a review of the system of remedies relating to district and district official procedures. The effectiveness of the redress system can only be ensured if the forum system for administrative litigation is simple and transparent. In addition, uniform case-law in line with the Basic Law is also the number one requirement, which is to be ensured by the binding force of the Curia's decisions. Accordingly, the courts are obliged to follow the Curia's interpretation of the law. Ladies and gentlemen, The law intends to introduce a new means of redress, the institution of the so-called unit of law complaint, in the event that the parties no longer have further remedies available. These amendments also eliminate administrative and labour courts. On the basis of the proposal, the place of law of the district court may function as the department of the district court in the future, led by a judicial staff member and team leader. Dear House, During the general and detailed discussion of the bill, a number of well-founded criticisms were formulated, which the legislative committee's summary amendment proposed to remedy. However, this was not accepted by the Parliament. The adopted law contains a number of inaccurate and contradictory provisions which violate the requirement for clarity and predictability of legislation resulting from the principle of legal certainty. Bearing in mind the comments of the President of the Republic, the newly submitted draft amendment aims to ensure that the law is integrated into the legal system in force. On the other hand, it would also like to serve as a more emphatic expression of the material and other appreciation of those working in the judiciary, given the concept of the law aimed at establishing a common judicial case-law on administrative procedures and consistent with the Fundamental Law. In view of what has been said, I call for the support of the proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-17-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[Dr. Pál Völner says no.]] He doesn't want to. Thank you very much. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone would like to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, Member Zoltán Balczó of the Jobbik Group has applied for a speech. There you go. You have the floor.
u2019-12-17-29	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, The President of the Republic returned this bill for consideration, and this letter contains three points. In the first two, it points out that there are inaccurate wordings, contradictory provisions, and in this form it cannot be incorporated into the existing legal system, so it was rightly sent back. Point 3 requires special attention. Allow me to quote, in case not everyone has read it:. One of the main objectives of the law is the establishment of a single judicial case-law on administrative procedures and in accordance with the Basic Law, which requires a rethink of the material and other appreciation of the judiciary workers, taking into account the summarizing proposal of the Legislative Committee of Parliament. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. If you look at what happened? Parliament has not given the necessary majority. 29 Fidesz MEPs have decided to vote no. The result was, therefore, that this legislative part was not born. It may therefore seem rather strange why the President of the Republic encourages Parliament to amend and vote differently the law he has passed. Of course, I don't want to look naive, life is different. Obviously, the President learned that there was actually a mistake here, and the Fidesz Members who voted 'no' actually wanted to support this amendment. Well, Jobbik was trying to use the logic that the President of the Republic applied here. Unlike the original text of the law, it considered that it was necessary to increase the salary of judges in order to ensure that these offices were of an adequate standard. And we believe that it is also necessary for those working in these offices to receive very high quality training in various areas. So, following those adopted by the Speaker, we have put forward proposals, for example, to increase the wages, salaries for higher education workers, and also to other areas. Well, at the TAB meeting, it was said in this regard, both by Mr President and by Mr István Bajkai, why this is considered to be against house rules. Those are the reasons. [[14.20]] However, unlike the usual order, a substantive vote was taken on this matter. With this vote in substance, those present rejected this possibility to settle salaries and voted against. However, there is another problem with point 3. Here, the President practically does not acknowledge, but actively legitimizes legislation that does not give Members the right constitutional right to decide on a particular issue according to their own conscience. If you look at the general justification, it is very abundant, seven and a half pages, insert in the text search the word salary, in the general explanation there is not a single word about salary, since it is not in any way related to the law on one-degree district procedures. This means, therefore, once again, that the President of the Republic has noted that such legislation will take place. In any case, let me also add to the problem that this proposal has been put forward to all opposition representatives. You must decide that Jobbik will support the stipending of judges, and we will therefore vote in favour of the summary amendment. However, we do not support it, because we have a lot of objections to the laws on single-level district procedures. What can a congressman do? To vote? This is the case when we can't solve it conscientiously. And let me add one more question regarding your practice. I'm afraid that from now on, when Jobbik raises anything about justice, you'll say, "Keep quiet, sit down," so you didn't support the stipend of the judges, you'll refer to it. Therefore, let me ask the State Secretarys present here, it is not the Secretary of State who most often resorts to this instrument, so that they do not claim our vote, seeing that Jobbik did not support this salary arrangement, they say that Jobbik did not support the law on the one-degree district procedure. That is why we will abstain from the final vote. Otherwise, we would have had suggestions on how this legislation should have been well resolved. The inappropriate part, the stipend of the judges, should have been tabled with a separate legislative amendment, and since everyone agrees with that, the four fifth majority and the great support would have been able to vote for this, separately from one law, separately from the other. Let me just say, as we bear joint responsibility here for the quality and quality of the debates, we have mutual responsibility for the bad image of Parliament to the public, so that at least before Christmas we could show that there is a question where this Parliament is able to cooperate and decide together. Therefore, all I can say to you in closing is that I wish you a blessed Christmas, in the true, true sense of the word, to all my dear fellow Members. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-17-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group of the LMP Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2019-12-17-31	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I am sorry that there is no Minister for Justice here, and he has led up the general debate on this law, and I think that this bill is of such weight, and there is a symbolic procedure for which we are talking about this as its third stop, that it would be justified by the presence of Minister. It says a lot about how the governing parties feel about the process of lawmaking and what they think about the quality of legislation, and this procedure has also shown how much the pro-government representatives are in spirit here. It is very important, and many criticisms have been made in the general debate about this bill, and obviously I will not repeat everything, that is for sure, and I would like to start by saying that there is a very, very serious part of this salad law, which is related to the increase in the salary of judges and prosecutors. It has been said here by all opposition groups that this is an important, very long-standing task, and we certainly consider this to be an important and supportive step. At the same time, it should be mentioned in what procedure and how this law came before Parliament. I would also like to draw attention to what happened here during the debate and what happened at today's meeting of the Legislative Committee. It is very important to say, since it is a bill that concerns the amendment of more than seventy laws, that it has not been possible for the authors to comply with the obligation of consultation imposed by the law, since it should have been published on an appropriate surface, even this has not happened. It is a completely amazing salad law, so diverse that it is certainly unworthy and, moreover, raises other concerns to bring in so many and so wide-ranging regulations. However, it should also be mentioned that this was practically presented at the end of the autumn session in such a legislative tsunami, along with 38 laws. I think that this too is unworthy, and it tells us everything about the party of government about their approach to legislation. In the course of the general debate, it was also said that this proposal concerns amendments to a number of laws that were not so long before the Parliament, so that practically such an absolution-rendering is the work that the governing parties carry out. This certainly does not reflect well on the Minister of Justice, which is why it would be justified to be present and, let us say, to assume responsibility for this unworthy procedure. There are elements of this bill that are totally unacceptable, and this has already been mentioned here, this is a certain possibility that after the appointment of the Constitutional Court, the person concerned may apply for the appointment of a judge within 30 days of the original proposal. Now even the part of the bill that has been passed within 30 days has been removed from the debate and the vote of the legislators. It is therefore even easier to achieve, but it is quite clear that the independence of both the judiciary and the Constitutional Court is being violated by this extremely unconventional and controversial proposal. There has been a lot of talk about this, and I certainly don't want to repeat it. However, the procedure in which this law has now been brought before the Legislative Committee, and in the manner in which it practically came to the aid of President of the Republic, the President of the Republic, who is not paying attention to the non-voting, 28 MEPs who have voted in favour of pro-government political groups, is certainly also a reason to talk about it in more detail. At the meeting of the Legislative Committee, my right-wing colleagues explained in detail and pointed out that the measure to allow judges and prosecutors to raise their salaries was also supported by the opposition and an express request was made to vote on these points separately. That was denied by the ruling majority. We believe that this could have been possible, and that is what the President of the Republic's signal, who himself wrote in his return letter, said that it was justified to make this important, otherwise inappropriate provision in such a salad law. I considered Jobbik's proposal to accept the President of the Republic's argument in this way as a model for Members to present an important package of proposals, which would also replace a huge deficit, which proposed a very serious wage arrangement, a really serious and wide-ranging wage arrangement. Thus, teachers, higher education workers, law enforcement workers, police officers, firefighters, and soldiers would have proposed to arrange wages. He did have the opportunity to vote on this for the pro-government and opposition representatives on the Legislative Committee, and it is quite astonishing to me that there was a vote on the content of the vote, and there was a vote on this proposal by the members of the Party of the Government. In fact, there has not even been a debate, although, on the basis of the argument made by President János Áder, it would certainly have been possible to settle this very important omission in this salad law, the very important missed measures. So, since the Legislative Committee does not receive due attention, I feel it is important to underline that the pro-government representatives present at the Legislative Committee voted against the teachers, voted against the higher education workers, voted against the increase in salaries and salaries of law enforcement workers. In your view, it is acceptable that a university assistant in Hungary today earns less than a store loader, and I would not like to reduce the role of the loaders here, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that there are unworthy situations in Hungary today, and this government does not value the educated head of man, nor does it value the highly qualified workers who work in the public sector. Those who defend our security every day are not appreciated, those who protect Hungary's security are not appreciated. So this procedure is quite amazing. Moreover, following the general debate itself, the LMP submitted several amendments to this bill, which were justified in detail and the elements of this salad law which could be criticised on a professional basis were tried to be taken out by these amendments. These proposals have been swept off by my fellow members of the Government without exception. [[14.30]] Therefore, with the fact that we again draw attention to the importance of raising the salaries of judges and prosecutors, this bill is generally considered unacceptable and we will vote against it in the final vote. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-17-32	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm came from the Jobbik Group and the timeframe is 2 minutes 34 seconds. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2019-12-17-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, This bill transforms the system of one-degree procedures. These are the procedures where, for example, investigations should be carried out and decisions should be taken that do not bring Hungarian families into such a tragedy as what happened on Sunday in Hungary. I thought that the governing parties would start today by expressing their regrets about the tragedy in Győr in their speeches before the agenda, because these are the one-tier procedures where in the future the measures to protect families should be decided in the future. You've been silent about this in a hypocritical way, and the mantra-trapped harassment case for weeks is worth a lot more to you than the tragedy of children sent to their own father's death. This is the responsibility of the government, this is the responsibility of the inadequate system, the inadequacy of the one-degree procedures that follow, his system sickness. [[István Szilárd Németh: Aren't you ashamed?]] Finding those responsible would be far more important than talking about the mantras in the House for weeks. It is unacceptable for me that a hundred pro-government Members are sitting here, and no one has thought of speaking in this House because of this tragedy, because they have unlimited time. I am very sorry that yelling at your daily political pamphlet is more important than protecting these families and children, who, on Sunday, have proved in the face of another tragedy that it is almost a blow to be born a child in Hungary, and to a bad family, and to a bad father is a tragedy. In the future, if you can legally establish such new procedures, also require decision-makers not only to carry out their duties by administrative means, but also to pay attention to the families for which you and I are all sitting in Parliament, and they are sitting in their public offices with taxpayers' money. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-12-17-34	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] Imre Vejkey asked for the floor from the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-12-17-35	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be very brief. The amendment tabled by Jobbik aims to amend four laws which are not otherwise amended by the proposed legislation, so that these amendments are set out in Article 42 of the House Rule. In accordance with point (a) of the first subparagraph, they shall be deemed to be over-expansion amendments. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment tabled to the Act sent back concerns only the parts which the President of the Republic objects to or related to, so that the legislative amendment tabled by the TAB has been submitted to this House accordingly, I ask for its adoption. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] In this regard, the Commission considers that it is considered to be an over-expansive amendment within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment tabled to the Act sent back concerns only the parts which the President of the Republic objects to or related to, so that the legislative amendment tabled by the TAB has been submitted to this House accordingly, I ask for its adoption. Thank you very much for your attention. (Applause in the ranks of the governing parties. )
u2019-12-17-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. As many people have not applied for a speech, the debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. Völner on Pál's signal:]] You have a ten-minute window, Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
u2019-12-17-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, In connection with the speeches, my fellow Member, Balczó, said here at the legislative committee his dilemmas about the relationship between salary arrangements and other amendments contained in the law, although interesting, perhaps LMP fellow Member, Lóránt Keresztes, did not note, because he came up with the fact that, in practice, salary increases should have been dealt with in a separate law, and that on this line, other wage developments should have been included, even though the over-extension, as my fellow Member Vejkey said, does not allow the negotiation of unopened laws; these submissions were related to this. And the kind of vote that you referred to was not a substantive vote, but it was obvious that, after not complying with the house rules, it was about expansing, and on that basis it was not even possible to negotiate. In relation to the fact that someone does not want to pay a salary... there has been no comment that these matters would not be eligible or negotiated within any other framework, and more than that, these discussions are ongoing between sectors and government. It was said that there was no conciliation process. It complied with all the legal and legislative requirements, so it came before the House in consultation with the organisations concerned, and it went through a normal negotiating framework. The legislative amendment that is before us has already been adopted once before, so it has been fully negotiated, so there is no failure on the part of either the government or the factions or the House. The legal preparation process has therefore been completed in its entirety. To his comment on the Constitutional Judges, he was already in the speech before the agenda, and in the detailed debate we have also made known that there are about 3,000 judges in Hungary, and we have 15 constitutional judges, and that when their term of office expires, they will be admitted to the court organisation, a completely natural process and something that fits their professional career. And if someone is to suggest that through this, the government would have any influence on the functioning of the courts or would endanger judicial independence, it would be a strong, onioned slip. In the end, unfortunately, I have an unpleasant obligation: I must completely reject Andrea Varga-Damm's speech, so that they use a human tragedy that, I think, has deeply shocked us all. [[Rumble, rumble in the ranks of Jobbik. An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: You always do this! Shame on you.]] It is clear that, after carrying out the necessary investigations, if the case is responsible, it will also be held accountable, and that this is linked to any bill in the series of articles and before us, which is far from that, I believe, is the lowest. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-17-38	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Decisions will be taken at our meeting today. Now I'm ordering a break for 15 hours and 30 minutes. Thank you very much. (Sunning: 14.37 15.32 President: Dr. János Latorcai Note: László Földi és Dezső Believing)
u2019-12-17-39	Ladies and gentlemen, Take your seats. We'll get back to work. Please check that your card has been properly placed in the voting machine. I ask you to follow the words of the chairman. Thank you. It follows a decision on the proposal for a legislative amendment by the President of the Republic, adopted on 10 December 2019 by the Parliament on the day of its meeting, submitted to the Act amending certain laws in connection with the establishment of single-level district office procedures, and the final vote. Text of the Act sent to the President of the Republic for signature T/8016/12. Letter from the President of the Republic T/8016/13. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. The Legislative Committee proposed the amendment T/8016/15. and T/8016/16. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with the provisions of the House Rules, there is no possibility to maintain a proposal amending the decision and to request a separate vote. We are now deciding on an amendment to the Legislative Committee. In view of the fact that... [[It's constant noise.]] I ask you, fellow Members, to pay attention a little bit, because then you will say that a qualified majority is required for the adoption of 9-11, 13-16, 18-22, 24, 26-39, 41-52, 75 and 77, and 81, 5-10, 13-16 and 18-25, the decision will be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the parts requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/8016/15. The parts of the proposed amendment No 3 that require a majority. Please vote. [[Zoltán Balczó standing: Yes! Vote.]] I declare the decision: Parliament shall vote in favour of the qualified majority of the amendment proposal by 159 votes in favour. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik, interrogations from the same place: Whoo!]] , adopted without vote and without abstention. Ladies and gentlemen, We're getting ready for Christmas, not New Year's Eve. [[Defiance.]] We are now deciding on a simple majority of the legislative committee's amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/8016/15. The simple majority of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the parts of the amendment requiring a simple majority by 158 votes in favour, without voting against, with one abstention. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the provisions of the law which has not been declared requiring a qualified majority on the amendment of certain laws in connection with the establishment of single-level district office procedures, with the amendments which have just been adopted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament has adopted the provisions of the Act requiring a qualified majority by 132 votes in favour, 4 with no votes and 23 abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the provisions of the law, which requires a simple majority, on the amendment of certain laws in connection with the establishment of one-degree district office procedures, with the amendments which have just been adopted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the law requiring a simple majority by 133 votes in favour, 4 votes in favour and 23 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It's 3:38 p.m. now, and we're moving on to interpellation negotiations. Congressman Csaba Gyüre, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior: It's an address. Congressman Csaba Gyüre has the floor.
u2019-12-17-40	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, On 18 November 2019 I had the pleasure of interviewing Dr. Judit Varga, Minister of Justice, on the issue of why the increase in the salaries of the judges against the government's earlier promises was missed. My interpellation was an unexpected success out of Parliament a few days later, when Minister announced at a press conference that the payment of the judges would be settled in three instalments, so as of 1 January 2020, judges would receive an average increase of 32 per cent in 2021 and 2022 of 12 per cent and 13 per cent respectively. In the spirit of my success, I now turn with respect to the Secretary of State to settle the salaries of law enforcement workers. These dedicated uniforms, despite waiting for the actual 50 percent wage increase, have failed in recent years. While a beginner patrol still earns a net of 140 thousand forints, double or triple of this can be earned in the construction industry as a simple handiworker or even as a pizza delivery man in a restaurant. As one of the essential components of judicial independence in the case of judges is the legal guarantee of a transparent and fair salary, so the key to the non-influenced service provision of police officers is the creation of a level of material prestige so that law enforcement workers do not have to illegally take second and third positions in order to ensure that themselves and their families are maintained. Since the current situation and this can be clearly felt from the wave of disarmament has now become unsustainable, I ask the honourable Secretary of State: when can it be expected that the financial and moral degradation of the police career will finally be stopped? When are you gonna realize the whole system could collapse without paying the cops? This will be equally bad for everyone, from police to political decision makers to ordinary citizens. I would ask the Secretary of State to take an example of the judicial wallet. I look forward to the government taking action within a few days, preferably this year, after my previous interpellation, and to the settlement of the police's salaries, as the judges have done in the last few minutes. I look forward to this initiative for an honorable and meaningful response. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[15.40]]
u2019-12-17-41	Thank you very much, Congressman. Before I give the floor to Secretary of State Károly Kontra, I wish everyone a blessed, happy, graceful Christmas holiday. I give the chair to Vice-President István Jakab. Thank you. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2019-12-17-42	Dear Parliament, Welcome, fellow Members. State Secretary Károly Kontra will respond to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-12-17-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I reject the statement that between 2015 and 19 the increase in wages of professional staff was cancelled. I would like to draw attention to the fact that there has been an average increase of 50 per cent between 1 July 2015 and 1 January 2019. As of 1 July 2015, an average salary increase of 30 per cent was made and each year thereafter a salary increase of 5 to 5 per cent was made. I'd like to say that the government's goal is to continue with the law enforcement career program. We trust that I will answer your first question, when you ask when it will be realized, we hope that a decision will be made on the rate of salary increase this year. I could stop answering the question now, but I would like to remind you that during the first Orbán government, in 1998, when the salary was incomplete, the government decided to make a 100% stand, and that meant a 40% wage improvement. Then, as of 1 July 2001, when Parliament adopted the civil servants' career law, it extended its scope to the professional law enforcement stock from 1 January 2002, and this meant a salary increase of almost 30 per cent. When the second Orbán government was formed when you attacked and did not support the police; let us recall the times when the law on the strengthening of the police and the resources needed for the police salary increase were not voted out, and between 2010-14, the deputy officers and the ensigns received a total so-called additional allowance of HUF 24,000 a month. I would also like to draw attention to this. This was followed by the new Service Act from 1 July 2015, which carried out an average salary increase of 50 per cent until 2019. The sacrifice, courage and firm commitment of professionals to order ensure the peace of the Hungarian people, public order and public security. I would like to stress that the aim of the Ministry of Interior's management is to give all the support for professional work, and we will create the conditions for this. I am confident that you will support the proposals that create the source side of this. I would also like to say that the Ministry of Interior has prepared proposals for the financial appreciation of professional staff, and that the amount has been allocated in Hungary's budget for 2020. The extent to which the use depends on the country's economic performance, which is being prepared. The Ministry of Interior continuously monitors the feedback received from the law enforcement staff and cooperates with the Hungarian Law Enforcement Faculty in order to further improve the financial recognition of professionals. I can only repeat what Minister Gergely Gulyás said on the subject in the government briefing:. Let us hope that this year will be the year when the decision on the increases in fees will be made. I trust you will be able to support this. Thank you, and please accept my answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-17-44	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-12-17-45	I would very much like to accept your answer, Mr Secretary of State, and I would be able to accept it if the government had already announced in full concrete terms that the salaries of police workers would be increased by 50 percent from 1 January. But now he's just talking about hope. He said twice that I hope it will take place this year, and he quoted Minister Gulyás, who also expressed his hope in this regard. We have been hoping for a very long time, and law enforcement workers have been hoping for a very, very long time that this will be modified. But I'm asking you, if you're not going to accept this, you think that what's happened so far is enough. The police are sending you a message with their decommissioning, a message to the government that they will leave you; although many policemen consider this career to be their career, they want to retire from here, it is their dedication, it keeps your family from it, and they don't want to make a living in any other way. Therefore, we ask that the government really consider and indeed raise it from 1 January. So I can't accept your answer yet. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-12-17-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 118 votes in favour, 31 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance:, How long will the ice age last in the area of family and social support? Or how long will the family allowance, children, children, maternity allowance, baby bonds, public health care and pension minimum remain frozen? It's an address. By responding to the interpellation, the Prime Minister commissioned the Minister of Human Resources Miklós Kásler, who is responsible and competent according to the subject. State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation at the request of the Minister. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2019-12-17-47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, Dear Secretary of State, Many social benefits and family allowances have not increased during your administration. They keep talking about Hungary's better performance, but for 12 years next year, family allowance, children and children have been transferred to the same amount. It will be a whole generation, after whom their parents received the same support throughout their childhood, while at least 30 percent of the money was wasted. And don't come with the family tax discount, because still after tens of thousands of children or more, parents can't enforce it because their income is so low or they don't have it at all. In fact, the single children and the three children have been getting the same discount for almost ten years, so that's a lot of inflection. But not only the monthly family benefits lost their real value, but also the maternity allowance at the birth of the child. This amount, you can hear it well, is 64 125 forints. In 2008, the state supported newborns by the same amount as in 2020. Do you think that's normal? In fact, the reference amounts for your nationalized baby bond that we have introduced have not changed. Last time, the socialist government raised the amount of baby bonds. How much will the same 42 500 HUF worth, which was committed in 2008, and how much will the child who became an adult have access to the interest-bearing amounts in 2020 when he is 18 years old? [[15.50]] But not only do they not care about the young, they do not care about the elderly. The amount of public health care for patients, typically elderly people, has remained unchanged for 14 years, as is the pension minimum at the income limit. Therefore, those who have raised their income in recent years, such as their pension, are excluded from the right to be entitled. This has happened recently in a number of cases, which have also been published in the press. A number of benefits are based on the pension minimum, so not only the minimum old-age pension amount, and this amount has been HUF 28 500 since 2008. Gergely Gulyás recently stated that this amount will not increase next year either, in other words, he said that there is no such proposal before the government, because it is true that the government will not submit such a proposal, but opposition proposals are constantly being swept off the table. For this reason, I ask the Secretary of State: do you think that there is no need to increase frozen benefits? And you have accepted that these benefits have not increased for up to 10 or 12 years, and in fact, in real terms, they have reduced between 40 and 50 percent by talking about millions of children, millions of pensioners. That's what you think. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Is it acceptable? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2019-12-17-48	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-12-17-49	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Madam Member, you have demanded greater solidarity here in your speech in Parliament. Madam Congresswoman, if we look at your political career, it did not start with solidarity when the face of the MSZP campaign rejecting Hungarians across the border was not about solidarity. When you ripped apart the national consultation sheets on family protection here in Parliament, it was not about protecting families or increasing the benefits of families; nor was it about the fact that you wanted to take the views of families into account when shaping family support. And it wasn't an eloquent example of solidarity and respect for one another when Fidesz cast the voters quite simply off the grid. And you're demanding bigger family support, bigger pensions for pensioners, bigger pension increases when you were the only government since the change of regime that reduced pensions; which took you away from pensioners. [[Lajos Korózs: That's not true!]] We have already raised pensions by more than 33 percent, which also represents 10 percent in purchasing value growth. In addition, we tried to give pensioners a pension premium, Erzsébet's voucher, and the Erzsébet program a holiday opportunity. On the other hand, you have taken away a monthly pension from every Hungarian pensioner and you demand greater solidarity with the elderly. [[Miklós Soltész: Oh, my God!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In your time, we spent HUF 960 billion on family support, and you accepted HUF 960 billion in the 2010 budget. The budget voted for this year is HUF 2228 billion. [[Lajos Korózs: That's not true either... Miklós Soltész: They didn't vote for it!]] Yeah, they didn't vote for it. Fidesz-KDNP voted for it. [[Lajos Korózs: That's not true either... Miklós Soltész: Count on it! The president's ringing the bell.]] So those who voted for 960 billion are less than HUF 2228 billion in funding, honourable Member. This is completely uncredited! If you look at the budgets of the countries of the European Union, you will find little, and I do not think you will find any, where family support is paid 4.5 percent of the total national product. What has, of course, changed, honourable Member, is how you have paid this little, and how we pay more, because indeed, we have said that we are primarily increasing subsidies that are dependent on family support for work. Just know, honourable Member, when we asked people if they agreed to this, over 90 percent of the people agreed. [[Lajos Korózs: Christian voters...]] We started a national consultation, and they said it was the right direction. Some of you have also supported your direction, this is a one-digit percentage; we have also been supported, this is a support of over 90 percent, honourable Member. But you, who are the endorsors of regular child protection support, who have taken away the family tax relief for families with one and two children, who have cut the tax allowance for the third child, who have shortened the child by one year, so that one third of them have been taken away from all families and the previous housing support system has been abolished, should not give us any tips on how to support families in Hungary. We introduced the family tax relief. You could have done the same thing. You couldn't have done it. Nor was it supported when we extended it to the contributions in 14. We've doubled the amount for two children. We've started a home-building program. We introduced your student and diplomat as an extra piece of paper. For newlyweds, we introduced a tax reduction. The free meal has been extended, not only HUF 32, but HUF 82 billion are already available for this purpose. We provide the textbook free of charge. What have you done with the textbooking of families? The publisher was privatized, and the library prices increased by 70 percent. We give the textbooks free of charge. In the family protection action plan, the baby shower support has already been requested by 52,000 pairs [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] , and the big family car shopping allowance is 21 000. They all prove that the government is moving in the right direction in family support. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-12-17-50	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congresswoman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go. [[Miklós Soltész: Yes.]]
u2019-12-17-51	I don't accept it, and it seems, Mr President, that 1912 After that, until 1990, and then all the Hungarian governments were stupid you say that! [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: 1912?]] He likes to twist the words of opposition representatives, so I'll twist yours. He says that after 12:00, when you were introduced to 7,000 children, then by 1990, every entitled child who was a minor got it, you said that all governments were stupid. And, Secretary of State, you've been stealing millions of children from month to month for nine years, because this is the child's allowance! [[Moraj and interrogations from the benches of the governing parties.]] Do you understand, Mr. Secretary? ! And I can only tell you from here when you look your child in the eye and say Merry Christmas. [[Miklós Soltész intervenes. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Where's the applause?]]
u2019-12-17-52	Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 116 votes in favour, 30 against, with two abstentions. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology: "When will the state start the meaningful work to recultivate the Karolina solution? " with the title " Congressman László Keresztes has the floor.
u2019-12-17-53	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I trust that this question will cause less anger. This is not a party policy issue, it is a very serious green-environment issue affecting the city of Pécs, but the state has a responsibility on this issue. I suppose I'll be able to count on Mr. Secretary's answer. In Pécs, the mining work on the Karolina project was completed in 2004. Following the cessation of mining activities, the Pécs Department of Mines set the original deadline for recultivation at 31 December 2009. The Hungarian State and Pannon Thermal Power Plant Zrt. were part of the reconstruction work. the person responsible. Since the time-limits were constantly pushed by the affected population and the city for a very long time instead of working on the merits, the then competent State Secretary, Mr András Aradszki, held a retail forum in 2017 for civil initiatives and public pressure. Listening to local complaints, complaints from the city, and a review of the area's capabilities, he promised that resources would appear in the 2019 budget to carry out public works. Technically, that's what happened. HUF 2.18 billion was published in this year's budget, and even next year's budget includes HUF 1.75 billion. Work started in 2018, but this seems to be far from necessary, but the work on public engagement has not yet started. It is important to know that this Karolina exploration is a huge, huge landscape wound, so it is a large crater about a mile [600 m] by a mile [600 m], which is nearly 100 meters deep. This has previously caused earth movements and poses other environmental risks, whether in terms of air pollution or surface groundwater contamination. In particular, my questions to the Secretary of State: what is the explanation for the original deadline for carrying out the renovation work in 2009 and the subsequent changes to the deadlines? Now you can hear the ending dates of 2032. How does the government assess environmental risks in the area, i.e. the immediate environment and Pécs? What data, what measurements do the competent ones have? If the budget has the resources allocated to it, why hasn't the State started its own meaningful work? And when does the state intend to start the work for its part, and what is the official deadline, according to the state's calculations, when can this extremely important and urgent work begin? Thank you in advance, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply.
u2019-12-17-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Tamás Schanda responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[16.00]]
u2019-12-17-55	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As a Pécsi, you obviously missed the fact that not so long ago, if I remember correctly, an article was published in a local medium, in which the owner said that the recultivation of the Karolina study was planned to progress at the right pace. Well, I can only confirm that from the government. Honourable Congressman, We have explained it on numerous occasions, and I repeat it over and over again, because it cannot be stressed enough that the protection of the created world, our environmental heritage, is a priority for the government. It is also recorded in the Fundamental Law that we must protect, preserve and pass on the values of the nature of the Carpathian Basin. We pay particular attention to creating a more beautiful, cleaner and livelier environment for future generations than we are today. Of course, our efforts are similar in the case of no longer used mines. Honourable Congressman, In 1993 the Karolina mining site, which is the protected name of Pécs-Mecszabolcs Kőszér, became the owner of Pannon Thermal Power Plant Zrt. It is currently the mining contractor and largely owner of this company. The mine hasn't worked since 2004. The landscaping of the mining area is required by an official decision in accordance with an officially accepted technical and operational plan. Pannon Thermal Power Plant Zrt. is obliged to organize the landscape, but it bears the costs of the landscape management together with the designated organisations representing the Hungarian State. In February 2018, Pannon Thermal Power Plant Ltd. and the Nonprofit Non-profit Non-profit Non-profit Ltd. According to the Memorandum of Understanding signed by the Republic of Moldova, landscape planning takes place at two paces. The first phase between 2018 and 2022 is the Pannon Thermal Power Plant Zrt. independently, fully from its own resources, without public involvement. According to the declaration, after completing the first stage of landscape planning, the mining right, i.e. the obligation to organize the landscape, will be passed on by the Nonprofit Középsznú Kft. for you. After that, surface work will pause for one year to compress the surface. Between 2023 and 2026, the second stage of landscape planning will be implemented by BVH alone, from the resources provided by the central budget, by conducting a public procurement procedure up to the limits of its budget. On this basis, no state resources will be involved until 2022 to complete the landscape. Honourable Congressman, According to our information, the Pannon Thermal Power Plant has already begun its first phase of landscape planning. The ultimate goal is to transform the landscape into a kind of valley by filling the pit with the right vegetation. Honourable Congressman, I trust I can confirm to you and the Pécs that the protection of our environment is really important for the government and that we are also doing so. Thank you very much for your attention, and I ask for my answer to be accepted. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-17-56	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-12-17-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to draw the attention of the Secretary of State to the fact that, on the spot, civilians who have been active in the case have sent a letter to the recently resigned pro-government mayor of Pécs, asking why the previously promised state engagement has failed, with its resources in the budget for this year and next year, and then the Mayor replied that it is not officially known why the provision of state financial resources has been stalled in the Karolina settlement's landscaping work, so that the mayor of the city has not been able to provide any further information on this. In other ways, it is clear that Pannon Thermal Power Plant Zrt. has actually begun. on the one hand, at the same time, a very small volume and a damaging effect that shows a very powerful dust-up. There have also been very serious concerns from professionals about the fact that this current work is a very serious environmental risk. That is why I asked the Secretary of State what precise measurement results they have in terms of the specific nature of these environmental risks for Pécs, and it is in no way reassuring that they intend to settle the work with such a long deadline. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Mr Secretary, I cannot accept your answer. This is an extremely important task and calls for an immediate solution. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-17-58	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 114 votes in favour, 29 against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance:, How much is a person's life worth to the government? It's an address. Congressman Bence of Turdai has the floor.
u2019-12-17-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Last Wednesday, the pro-government, slightly defective voting machine voted in favour of the law on the right holders of social security and the coverage of these benefits. This law results in many people losing free health care. [[István Szilárd Németh: You're lying! György Balla: That's not true!]] This could result in the worsening health or premature death of a multitude of people. That's why we brought a coffin to the office of János Áder yesterday with the dialogue activists. [[Interventions in the ranks of the governing parties: Shame! Shame on you.]] Asking the President of the Republic not to sign this law. [[Intercoms in the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] Not only do all opposition parties ask for this in a uniform way, but also the Hungarian Medical Chamber and the Hungarian Trade Union Association on behalf of the contributors. Last time we talked about a question: there are at least 110,000 job seekers who, although registered job seekers, may be seriously affected by the law, because they no longer have to receive any benefits, so they have to pay their own medical contributions. Overall, there are nearly one million people who would not be entitled to health care today under the law for such reasons or for such reasons. 300,000 people pay for this care to themselves, but 500,000 people already have red lanterns, because for some reason they have missed the payment, and we have 400 thousand citizens who have never received health care before, and 50 thousand people who are not entitled because they do not have a permanent address, and here we have to understand not only homeless people, but also people living in apartments who are not allowed to sign in. No matter how many people it affects, how many tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands or over a million, I don't want to go into a number war if one person's life is lost because of it, that's a lot. Even though the government says that emergency care will remain available, if people excluded from social security can only enter the system there, the system on the brink of collapse will collapse, and it will cost more people lives. Just as it will cost people lives if they cannot have the non-emergency but necessary intervention done, but do not die immediately, but suffer slow or lasting health degradation. And if the government considers humans to be human resources, as it appears from the name of the Ministry, then they could at least be given the quality of human resources. The Hungarian Medical Chamber also warns that a large number of people may lose their privileges. According to the new law, health care due to an accidental accident or unexpected illness could result in a supply fee of several million HUF. This could cause a priceless expense for many or a disruption to the social situation of the whole family. This is a disproportionate consequence due to the lack of a payment obligation of just over HUF 23,000. The question is that doctors want to commit an oath or a violation of the law; the question is, is it really only worth 23 thousand forints to a Hungarian person's life?
u2019-12-17-60	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Deputy Minister András Tállai responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2019-12-17-61	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Let us first be clear that you are either deliberately and/or knowingly misinterpreting the law and misleading public opinion. [[Miklós Soltész: He is simply lying! György Balla: You're lying on purpose!]] Or you just don't understand what you're reading. I quote you, you say:, many people fall from the possibility of free care; this is false, unfounded, essentially a rumor, because in this respect the law has not changed, the same people who have used it. I urge you to read and interpret the law before making such statements. You are talking about millions of people, hundreds of thousands of people, which are an obvious lie, falling out of care, while, by the way, emergency care, the right to rescue applies to everyone in Hungary, everyone is entitled, i.e. without care, no one can stay in Hungary in this respect. In this context, I indicate that this is being paid by the central budget. But let's keep going. I would like to inform you that, in the current system, the payment of health care contributions is made on the basis of a check-in, so that everyone is registered on their own. You will not believe, in 1997 the Hungarian Socialist Party passed this law, your ally [[Miklós Soltész: Sándor Burány! Intercoms from the ruling parties: That's right!]] And you may not believe that this monthly lump sum was introduced by Ferenc Gyurcsány in 2008. So by paying for those who are not subject to the law, you agree, because you introduced this, and it is still a functioning system. By the way, who is involved in this, I will give you an example: under social law, those in need, so who have no income, cannot work, without their own faults, are socially dependent. [[Noise. Bence of Turdai: 35,000 forints! Laszlo Szászfalvi: Listen to him!]] , it doesn't have to pay a health contribution either, but it still receives health care. Or, for example, believe it or not, the homeless belong here, or the prisoner, and I could list the law for you. [[16.10]] What you're saying is nothing else [[Bence of Turdai: I'm not saying it!]] It's like alarms and rumors. But you tell me, no one else says that except you. [[Bence of Turdai: I was quoting the Hungarian Medical Chamber!]] From this bullshit you just made up [[Bence Tordai: Mr President, does this not violate the dignity of this House?!]] You're a notorious liar, and you want to take political advantage of that. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. László Szászfalvi: The truth hurts, doesn't it?!]] This new law wants nothing more than to clarify why if someone doesn't pay and yet uses the service. It is not the purpose of the law, the government, the Parliament, for anyone to be left out of health care, but it is the goal. [[Noise.]] The aim is to check this system, which has been operating for almost 20 years and works as it is, and if it has stowaways who could pay but do not pay, we will filter it out and make it pay, who cannot pay without his own fault, we will clarify and we will clarify the situation, because it is either homeless or socially dependent, or it will fall into some other category, which means that he is otherwise entitled to health care. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell. Noise.]] With all due respect, stop lying, stop spreading rumors. [[Noise. Intercoms from the ruling parties: That's right! A long applause in the ranks of the governing parties. The president's ringing the bell. Laszlo Szászfalvi: You didn't get this!]]
u2019-12-17-62	Dear Parliament, [[Noise.]] Dear Parliament, I ask my fellow Members to remain calm. Now I'm going to ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties, among them: Yes! Yeah, he'll take it.]]
u2019-12-17-63	That's the thing. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] The fact is that the Secretary of State is not just arguing with me, he is arguing with the experts of all opposition parties. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] arguing with experts from the Hungarian trade unions [[The president's ringing the bell.]] and arguing with the entire Hungarian Medical Chamber. You're lying, and you're destroying the dignity of this House, by the way. [[Constant noise in the ranks of the governing parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] But what he said was specific was net cynicism. Your government no longer considers Hungarians to be in need of a monthly income of HUF 35,000, so according to you, for whom the income per capita in your family reaches HUF 35,000, it is necessary to pay the contribution of nearly HUF 8,000. [[György Balla: That's not true!]] That's nonsense! [[László Szászfalvi: Talk to your own!]] That's nonsense, you're lying! And the President of the Republic knows that, because otherwise he would have signed this along with all the other laws. Last Wednesday you voted in favour, on Thursday you signed everything else, on Saturday you were out in the Gazette, you didn't sign this, and if you want to stay a decent man, maybe you'll try, then you won't even sign this. [[There's a constant murmur in the pro-government ranks. The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And then you'll be very ashamed.
u2019-12-17-64	Congressman, I understand you did not accept the Secretary of State's answer. [[Intercoms from the ranks of the governing parties, including: Accepted! Yes, he did!]] I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 114 votes in favour, 30 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Gabriella Selmeczi, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:, Is the rumors true that children will remain unattended after the closure of the Károlyi István Children's Centre in Fót? It's an address. It is for Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi.
u2019-12-17-65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In 1997 the National Assembly adopted a complete political consensus on the replacement of the large number of residential properties of children's centres and children's towns, which were not originally built for children's homes. The objective set out in the Child Protection Act was to build up a modern child-home infrastructure that meets professional expectations and goals, as it is today. For us, it is important that all children who are still living in a children's home waiting for such replacement have access to adequate and high-quality care in the future. The new environment would provide children with a more modern and family-friendly atmosphere, in line with the principles of the Child Protection Act. The direction of the government's child protection development is clear: each child should grow up best in the family, so we want to expand and develop foster care networks. Anyone who has been monitoring this area over the past period has certainly heard about the Betatlak programme and knows that as of 1 January 2020 the foster child will be introduced to children under the age of two. However, there are children who, unfortunately, are brought up in children's homes for some reason, and it is also our duty to ensure that they are raised in institutions that remind them of home instead of large, impersonal, unconventional buildings, so it is important for us to create small and modern institutions in the establishment of these institutions. The necessary improvements are still taking place. Dear Secretary of State, In view of all this, I ask you that you are right about any of the opposition rumours that children may remain unattended after the closure of the Károlyi István Children's Centre in Fót. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-17-66	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2019-12-17-67	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, My situation could be relatively simple, because I could answer with one sentence: the rumors that opposition representatives have been spreading over the past period are not true. Unfortunately, we have seen for about a different year that left-wing representatives, Bernadett Szél, Gergely Arató and many others have made it almost sporty to come forward in public every month, making the lives of children with a difficult fate even more uncertain with mere advertising, making the existence of the people who work there more uncertain. It was politically important for them to be on the front page of, say, 168 Hours, by running over children with such and similar sentences, but with these rumors, they really just wanted to show up. These are politicians who may have come to the periphery of politics, and somehow, in order for the public to take care of them, they wanted to say something bombastic. Therefore, almost a countdown was launched, that this spring, April or May the institution would close, go to the scene, hold a press conference, make videos, organize various press events, and make up everything that could give a sound title in the opposition media for their newer and newer, more or less compulsive appearances. There were times when they said it was some kind of castle sale deal, they said that Putin would have a guest house here when Foton wanted to stay. They did everything they could, and in March, they said that there were three months left before the Fót institution closed. Anyone who goes that way, or anyone who is aware of the Fót institution, can see that everything, from the first to the last sentence, said by opposition representatives in connection with the Fót institution, is untrue, because the institution works, children are treated there, as well as everyone's legal relationship, the relationship of caregivers, and they continue the work they have done before. It is natural that, however, there is a process that has been mentioned by the congresswoman that children are better able to grow up in families, and who do not have that, or whose health condition is such that it is difficult for them to go to foster parents, because that is exactly what the Betweb campaign was about, so that the more foster parents they could grow up under the more familiar conditions and the more modern conditions. [[16.20]] There are numerous projects funded by Hungary and funded by the EU, worth hundreds of millions of forints at the moment, with which we would like to improve the lives of these children. It's the fate of 23,000 children, they're in the domestic child protection department. Of these 23,000 children, there are about 50 to 70 children in Photon, and they are the ones who are receiving care there now. But, of course, everything has been used by opposition representatives, the Helsinki Commission, and various statements have been issued or procedures have been launched. In fact, they even said that for ten years the documents related to the Fotian children's center were encrypted. No kind of encryption has been done, but every administrative decision preparation document is subject to a certain rule, which is within the general rules of the public administration, which also applies to this, but this general rule was considered to be a good rule that, if performed more bombically, they might once again be able to get on the front page, that they are secret in relation to any important documents or closure documents concerning Fot. Of course, they don't exist, so they can't be secret. Well, so we can ask our fellow Members who want to show up in the media with rumors about children with a difficult fate before Christmas, not to do so. If the year 2019 was about creating more and more false news from month to month, finish this very harmful activity in 2020. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-12-17-68	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congresswoman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2019-12-17-69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I accept your answer, but let us state that the worst way to make political profits is to try to produce rumors about children with a difficult fate. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-12-17-70	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:. The Fidesz government is seriously damaging the Hungarian people and is in favour of misappropriation? It's an address. Mr Zoltán Magyar has the floor.
u2019-12-17-71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. During 2015-16 the Hungarian State sold some 200,000 hectares of land owned by the national government. With this step, they have significantly reduced the already well-defeated national wealth. We considered this step to be extremely harmful at the time, and not only because it was totally opposed to what was promised before they came to power, and not only because it took a very important control tool from the hands of the state, where the current governments could have started the factors that could influence rural life in a positive sense, programs that could have helped them to stay in the countryside, and not only because, in accordance with our fears, there was no word that, in the end, family farmers or young people who were starting their careers would receive these fields, but indeed, the fattest, largest bites were acquired by the orange barons you know. Here it is worth mentioning that the largest areas are still rented by the empire of Csányi and Mészáros. So they got the most greasy bites, which are still state-owned, but they could continue to rent them. These few 150,000 acres, which have been left, are mostly rented by such barons. By the way, what is absurd is that they can rent these areas for half or a third of the market price, which, to be perceived, means that in the case of a better quality land, 70 to 100 thousand forints per hectare are now applied for as rent per hectare, and they do only half and a third of that. It further exacerbates the situation that 50-year leases are still in the system, which I know will be protected by the fact that you did not bind them, but by your predecessors, that is true, but only those that have been reviewed and those that are not your narrow elite have been reviewed. So the problem here, Minister, is that, according to our estimate, the Hungarian state is owed 5-8 billion forints a year by the fact that these oligarchs can continue to rent the state land at such a reduced price, and this, in our opinion, exhausts unfaithful treatment. This is how the questions arise, Minister, as to why you support this process further. Or the question arises that the HUF 300 billion that came from privatisation, and that which could have been used exclusively for the purchase of agricultural land, or going on, according to their own fundamental law, even the Constitutional Court claims that it was not spent for this purpose. You have drained practically 300 billion forints from the rural economy. Why does the state support the most capable with such a reduced rent, and why does it create an irreplaceable competitive disadvantage for honest players, Minister? This is quite simply insufferable, I look forward to its meaningful response in this regard, and I hope that the symbolic Hungarian farmer can give a reply under the Christmas tree that can be accepted. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-12-17-72	Thank you. Dear Parliament, István Nagy, Minister of Agriculture, responds to the interpellation. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2019-12-17-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My honourable fellow Member, allow me to reply in an unusual way by giving me a postcard. On the postcard is the following: I will never forget my grandfather's tearing eyes when he received a piece of the land of his ancestors through compensation, besides his handiwork and the love of cattle, I inherited a few acres of farmland and an outdated machinery park from him. I have read this to you because, to this day, the deepest drunkenness of our genes is the love of the earth, and of course, the postcard ends in encouraging us to do everything possible to continue to inherit this love of the earth, to survive in the cultivation of the earth. I would like to ask you because it is a masterful mix-up between the period before 2010 and the period after 2010, and that cannot be done. Let me tell you that contracts of use decided before 2010, without a tender being issued, at the bottom of a back office, and which have been concluded more than once for fifty years, are indeed a burdensome legacy, but the lease fee fixed in the contracts and I would very much ask you to understand that the lease fee laid down in these contracts cannot be unilaterally altered. So with these suggestions, let me tell you that the land is for farmers. His comments on the programme, which are integral to the opposition campaign against the government's policies to support farmers, must be strongly rejected. It is regrettable that, for many years now, he has used every accusation without a realistic basis to classify state land sales under the programme. This is particularly painful, because he says that it is a narrow circle of beneficiaries who cultivates this myth; however, the fact that 30 percent of registered Hungarian farmers have acquired land within the framework of the programme is that nearly 30 thousand persons have acquired land. It is also a fact that the auctioneers bought on average two real estates; it is also a fact that 60 percent of the auctioneers bought below 50 hectares and 50 percent bought below 20 hectares. Dear Congressman, There's never been a state land package like the land for farmers before! The programme, which, through lease applications and land sales, would have strengthened the development of tens of thousands of Hungarian farmers in small and medium-sized estates and the strengthening of their agricultural economic positions to this extent. The programme under the Land Traffic Regulation thus served effectively the land-owner policy objectives consistently represented by the government, namely the ownership and use of land-based farmers, the elimination of domestic and foreign speculators and the keeping of the land in national jurisdiction. All parameters show this. In general, reflecting on your questions with a sentence, I would stress the following: the statement of the National Earth Management Centre on land management, which is reasonable in terms of state-owned land resources and which generally accuses its land management activities of misrepresentation, is both amusing and shows a complete lack of knowledge of the facts of criminal law cited. The Agricultural Ministry also considers it particularly important to preserve and increase the state's strategic land assets. The land for the farmers! The land sales of the programme did not jeopardise this land asset, as there are currently more than 1.6 million hectares of land owned by the State. The National Earth Control Center also buys land for billions of dollars a year. [[16.30]] In addition, I remind the Parliament, when closing the sales program, of the translation of the revenue of approximately HUF 270 billion from it into debt reduction, i.e. it is completely legal, necessary and lifelike. Thank you very much. Please accept my reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-17-74	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Minister's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-12-17-75	Well, Minister, you're the one who mixed things up here. I didn't talk about the lands of the national parks, I didn't talk about the state forests, I was talking about the land that the state sold, and then let's split your answer. The problem with what was sold is that it was sold, and on the other hand, for example, it came to the agricultural empire of Lőrinc Mészáros, which is already a brutal large economy on a historic scale. The problem with not being sold is that it also stays with these landlords, only it is rented from the Hungarian State for half or a third of the market price. This is the real problem. And, yes, I claim that the damage to Hungarian taxpayers by HUF 5-8 billion is the cheating treatment, and this must be answered, for example, in addition to the questions that I asked, why the country's most talented billionaires with most land are supported by the Hungarian state with a reduced lease. It's inexplicable! I can't accept your answer. [[Dr. László György Lukács: That's right! Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-12-17-76	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Minister's answer. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial response by 115 votes in favour, 27 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Lőrinc Nacsa and László Földi, representatives of KDNP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. What does consumer protection do to protect customers during the Christmas season? It's an address. It is for Congressman László Földi to take the floor.
u2019-12-17-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Christmas will be here in a few days. The last weekend before the holidays is expected to be a huge storm in stores and shops. It is therefore worth talking about what consumers should pay greater attention to. Consumer protection also has a greater role to play in this period, since the obligation to minimise and prevent the various potential problems of consumer protection is consumer protection. The Christmas checks that started in mid-November and run until the end of December concern both the financial and product safety of consumers. The most common items are the Christmas lights and other lighting decorations, which are used by customers both outside and indoor decorations even in the period before the holidays. Each year, the Consumer Protection Authority will monitor them more closely to ensure that products that do not comply with the safety standards are removed from the market. The product safety of light garlands is also monitored at borders in cooperation with shops and customs. The authority also pays particular attention to online shopping around Christmas. This is necessary, as the net domestic sales of webshops increased from HUF 273 billion in 2014 to HUF 669 billion in 2018. In the case of online commerce, it is also examined, among other things, that the webshop has provided the consumer with appropriate information on the delivery deadline and the withdrawal deadline without legal consequences. Dear Minister, Consumer protection not only helps Hungarian families, but also provides security to foreign guests who visit a significant number of Christmas fairs, thereby contributing to an increase in country image. The Consumer Protection Authority also controls fairs, shops and gift shops more closely in the period before Christmas. Among other things, consumer protection checks will examine the appropriate price information, the sellers used credible measuring devices, and the customer received a receipt at the time of purchase. Of course, monitoring itself is not enough; any infringements or irregularities should also be made known to consumers as a wake-up call. That is why I ask you, Mr Secretary of State, how do you assess the consumer controls that have been carried out so far? What trends have been observed with regard to consumer infringements? What measures have the authorities taken to protect consumers? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-17-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Tamás Schanda responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-12-17-79	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The Ministry of Innovation and Technology also indicates with strong and effective consumer protection action that it is on the people's side. Our aim is to ensure that families meet only safe products that meet strict domestic and international quality standards in retail trade, so consumer protection controls both products sold in Hungary and commercial units. Checks are for safety. This means, on the one hand, the financial security of customers and, on the other, product safety. We're constantly in the most visited shops, supermarket chains, gift stores, fairs. Consumer protection also controls webshops and applications to protect consumers from damage and other inconveniences. The studies include misleading consumers in their purchases and ensuring that price information is adequate. With the end-of-year Christmas consumer protection controls, the government's priority is to protect families and create the conditions for peaceful holiday preparation. Honourable Congressman, Checks and rehearsals are ongoing from mid-November until the end of the year in Christmas markets, shops and webshops. During the Christmas period, 835 shops have been controlled by the Consumer Protection Authority and 830 trial purchases have been carried out. Nearly a third of these found minor or greater violations. So far, our colleagues have imposed a fine of HUF 8 million at national level. It is important to point out that online commerce is becoming increasingly popular among customers, so Christmas checks also include these. In recent years, more than 2,300 webshops have been checked, with nearly a thousand rehearsal purchases. The repeated infringements of webshops have decreased from 54 percent of previous years to 17 percent in recent years, thanks, among other things, to official action. The conscious customer decision before online purchases is also supported by the database jogsertowebaruhazak.kormany.hu, which already contains more than 650 webshops that have committed an infringement. Seventy-eight percent of them fulfilled the resolution, so they are already functioning properly. Honourable Congressman, As Christmas approaches, we pay particular attention to the elimination of products that threaten the safety of life and property. The quality of light garlands and lighting decorations is constantly a recurring source of danger. The safety of these is also examined by consumer protection. The products shall be examined by the technical laboratory of the ITM. The Authority shall remove or recall from the shelves dangerous products in trade. So far, 150,000 dangerous Christmas decorations have been banned by the authorities. Of the 64 decorative lighting products tested, only eight types were found to be safe. The flammable products with the risk of electrocution were removed from the shelves of the shops, recalled from the shoppers, or stopped and destroyed at the customs border. By taking action at customs borders, we protect not only Hungarian consumers, but also EU consumers. You can find the list of products tested and the type of risks on the website.kormany.hu. Honourable Congressman, Please accept my reply. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-17-80	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-12-17-81	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary of State. I accept your answer. I would like to highlight it, and I would like to thank all the colleagues who have been active in consumer protection for the last month and a half, and have done so for our safety, for the safety of families, because they are not performing an easy task, their work is not easy. [[16.40]] I would like to highlight one thing that I did not say in my interpellation: the issue of children's toys, because there are a lot of child's toys that are life-threatening or swallowed by the child, etc. They can easily get out to the families. This will also need more attention in the next few days. In any case, I wish you and your colleagues a blessed Christmas, and I accept your answer. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-17-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the interpellation trial. It's 16 hours and 40 minutes, and we'll continue our work by discussing immediate questions. [[Some Members leave the Chamber.]] Thank you for your cooperation. I would ask my fellow Members, who leave the Chamber because of an urgent public task, to do so quietly and also to wish them blessed holidays. Dear Parliament, Péter Jakab, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "How credible is the government's policy?" It's an address. Prime Minister has appointed Minister István Nagy to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2019-12-17-83	I wish Prime Minister Merry Christmas and tell him I'll wait for him. I'll see you next year.
u2019-12-17-84	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Ander Balázs, a representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: å How credible is the government's policy? It's an address. Prime Minister has appointed Minister István Nagy to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2019-12-17-85	I'll take it, thank you.
u2019-12-17-86	Congressman, you have the floor.
u2019-12-17-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, An American study in 1986, before the flood, says that by the time it reaches the age of 12, there are 244 thousand violent acts and about 14 thousand corpses on the screen. Since then, a generation that had been pushing a laptop or a tablet or a smartphone before being housebroken has grown, so the situation must have gotten worse. They argue that there is some connection between the spread of school violence, but it is a fact and a fact that this is the case in Hungary, and about 51 percent of Hungarian students have indeed encountered some form of school aggression, and one third are going to school in fear. The frustrated, overloaded, overwhelmed educational ecosystem depicts society, a society where values have changed and changed negatively, where children often follow the wrong example, the bad examples led by the media. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, not only did your fellow students kill Piglet in Lord of the Flies, but life also produces very bloody, very tragic events. We can remember when K. Rajmund killed his classmate, beat him to death, and for this he received a ridiculous sentence, or even when 10th grade students in Kaposvár had brutally murdered their classmate. Another form of violence, however, was violence against teachers. An example of this was when at the Pesterzsébet vocational school, a team reminded the teacher of the wild baboon herd, and now in Győr, when it developed into the attempted murder, where the student stabbed the teacher. My question to Minister is that the government is doing something to stop violence in public education institutions.
u2019-12-17-88	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister István Nagy, who will answer the immediate question. You have the floor, Minister.
u2019-12-17-89	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. My dear fellow Member, Let me begin by saying that the Hungarian government condemns all acts of violence in the strongest terms, either visually or in reality, because they affect each other. After all, as you said, the emergence of violent content on the media scenes, that examples can be seen in different series of films, all of which have a negative impact. We are responsible for the examples we set for our young ones. And the fact is that today, unfortunately, this violence has come to school in a very serious way. And the violence between the student and teacher in Győr is completely unacceptable and unacceptable. Education and education must therefore have a huge role and a huge task, both education and education; one cannot be replaced or replaced with the other, together with a very important emphasis on the two. Plus, I have to say, it exacerbates the situation that this happened at a good school, a good name. And the child himself is of a good family, and the class was in a good mood. So there's something about this attitude that needs to be dealt with, of course. There's a place to explore this, of course, psychology, psychiatry, definitely education. I must also say that we need to take greater action on the role of school police; how we can stop children from bringing in such tools to endanger the lives of their peers or teachers. So much more attention is needed to prevent such acts. But we need to get out of it, set examples, and set examples for our children that lead them to the right path, not the negative ones. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-17-90	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2019-12-17-91	Thank you, Minister, for your reply, and in particular for the fact that cynical retourisms have now been ignored. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] But really, I'd be happy if I wasn't motivated by punishment, but by prevention. And how could this prevention be implemented in practice? By not sending an astronaut into space, but, let's say, children's psychologists to the right place, for example, schools where this is needed. Then school social workers, social educators who could handle this problem at its root. It's just that we don't see this on the budget side either. And they could tell a lot about, say, the L. Ritók Nóraes, how the government's attitude is, I do that, to the schools, to the schools that are trying to get students back on track, in many cases, who are unable to meet appropriate socialization standards at home. But it has been said here that students from disadvantaged families are not the only ones who can touch aggression. So, I would rather have these answers, but thank you, Minister, for your answer. Thank you very much, and I wish you all a merry Christmas. [[Applause for the Jobbik, sporadic applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-17-92	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Minister. You have the floor, Minister.
u2019-12-17-93	Thank you very much. I fully agree with my fellow Member on the need to dominate prevention. Indeed, I have also said that education, education, the right example has a very, very important role to play. He's gonna circle his astronaut training and sending him to space. I have to tell you, you're not quite right, because a myth, a role model, a hero, a new opportunity is needed, because it's what kids want to be, rather than doing something else. So this is also necessary, I must say to you; and we really need to look at how schooling can be done. And he brought up the schools in my heart. So if someone's in favor of schools in the country, it's, I have to say, exactly me, because I've seen so many tears, I've seen so many examples of life, I've seen so many stand-up people who say thank you, they've made me a man, I've got a profession, I'm working now. Better program, better support... with small money we save lives, and we can guide their lives in the right direction, the most wonderful program, even before Christmas. Thank you so much for contacting me. [[Ander Balázs: Secretary of State... applause from the ranks of the governing parties and Jobbik.]]
u2019-12-17-94	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. How will high-quality healthcare be provided? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I'm asking if you'll take it. [[Lajos Korózs: Yes.]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman. [[16.50]]
u2019-12-17-95	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The news came out yesterday that six surgeons from seven surgeons at the hospital in South Pest have submitted their resignations. There were talks between the administration of the institution and the doctors. According to my information, the offered wage increase was not accepted by the doctors, and they are now serving their notice. I know that the hospital issued a statement this afternoon saying that there was nothing to worry about, because there are 23 surgeons working at the hospital. Just to make the picture complete, it turns out that ten of us are general surgeons, six of us are specialists, four of us are residents, two of them are retired, and they're not taking any kind of shift, and a doctor is in the process of retiring, and he's not on call. If we continue to dissect these statistics, it turns out that many of these doctors work in the clinic, several outside employees who go there under contract, and, as I mentioned, many are retired. That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State what they intend to do in order to resolve this situation, because if we add everyone, it turns out that there really are seven specialists and specialists at the hospital who can lead an on-call procedure, and six of them have submitted their resignations. The other question is that, as the holidays approach, the number of our fellow countrymen who have suffered an accident increases in general experience, in order to provide them with the best possible care for everyone, what they intend to do in the coming days. Thank you very much. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2019-12-17-96	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The immediate question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-12-17-97	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Our government over yours is not the government of hospital closures, but the government of hospital development and new hospital constructions, honourable Member. You quoted that yesterday's news on the portals was that six out of seven surgeons had resigned, and there was even a portal that was able to say that seven out of two had resigned, so that five people had to be hired to stop working at the hospital. So the left-wing news portals bid on each other in the spread of rumors. But I am surprised, honourable Member, that you are more familiar with the personal conditions of all Hungarian hospitals than the head of the hospital itself, the Director-General of the hospital, since the hospital has issued a notice that 38 thousand people are provided every year in this hospital, honourable Member, in 24-hour emergency care 90-100 patients every day, so they will obviously be able to provide them during the winter period as well. With the support of 125 million forints provided by the government two years ago, the entire emergency department was able to renew, so the improvements are felt and seen in this hospital, too, honourable Member, as opposed to your period, when we talked about austerity and less resources. I would suggest to you, honourable Member, that if you are so concerned about the care of the Southern Pest people, since this hospital provides a huge number of people with 400,000 inhabitants in the area where Jahn Ferenc Hospital has a supply area, you should convince the Balliberal members of the Capital Assembly in the Budapest General Assembly not to vote against the Super Hospital in South Buda. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea's intervention.]] [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea's intervention.]] Instead, allow it and confirm with their own vote that the government can build a super hospital in South Buda, because a few weeks ago, members of your political family voted against it. We have developed Jahn Ferenc Hospital, we want to improve it later, and we would also like to build a new super hospital in South Buda, but you have introduced a hospital stop and a museum stop and a bridge stop (interjection by Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea). And all they promised me was a stadium stop, and they didn't even follow it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-12-17-98	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2019-12-17-99	Thank you very much. I did not get the answer to how this problem would be solved because six out of seven specialists resigned. If at a high level, as the Director-General said, this problem will be solved, then it is most likely that one person will work six times as much as the week has done. There's no other way to solve it, because the people I mentioned can't take their place because it's physically impossible. A Pre-retirement [[Lajos Rig: Residents!]] and a retired doctor can't assume a leading role in the on-call. But I am concerned about the care of the entire population in Budapest. Today you can read that there is no CT in the Merényi, there is no X-ray in the National Accident Institute, there is an elevator in the János Hospital, but none of it works. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It's the same thing!]] And I could tell you by the end of the day. And it's just today. It's just today. And let's thank God it didn't rain sour, because otherwise, life would have stopped. I'm sorry, Secretary of State, that was an uncritical response you gave me. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-17-100	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-12-17-101	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Your assumption, Your Honour, is that there are seven doctors and six of them are no longer working. It turns out that all seven doctors work; it's true that six of them are actually in negotiations with the hospital about what wage increases the hospital can offer them. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Are you working or not working?]] Turns out there aren't seven doctors, there's 23 doctors. [[Lajos Rig: Most of them are residents, Mr. Secretary of State.]] Turns out everyone's working, no one's stopping the job, but they're starting to stop taking care of them because six out of seven doctors don't work there anymore. It turns out that all doctors work there, and not just seven doctors in this department [[Lajos Rig: But they're residents!]] It's 23. But please, it's Christmas break. Talk to Angéla Németh, Tibor Déri, Péter Gajda, Gy. Erzsébet Németh, Gábor Havasi [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: They are not the organizers of public health!]] With Csaba Horváth, Gergely Christmas, László Kiss, Péter Niedermüller, Gergely Őrsi, András Pikó, Tamás Soproni, Sándor Saniszló, József Tóth, Kata Tüttő, Márta Naszályi and Krisztina Baranyi, do not vote against the construction of the Super Hospital in South Buda! [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: What do they have to do with the care?]] Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-12-17-102	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What is his position on the Prime Minister's behalf? It's an address. Prime Minister has appointed Minister István Nagy to respond to an urgent public task. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[On the signal of Antal Csárdi:]] Yes, you have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-12-17-103	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Minister, We find that there is a great deal of confusion between your leading economic policies. President György Matolcsy recently found that the euro is a faulty project that needs to be found. The President of the Central Bank ventured to question the validity of the common money himself, while we, as a member of the European Union, committed ourselves to adopting the euro. At the same time, your Finance Minister said that common European money is the most promising project in the Union, but it still needs to be completed. It is clear, therefore, that the two most influential persons in the Hungarian economic policy think in a perfectly opposite way, and this is also expressed in the press. This is extremely damaging, because the issue of the introduction of the euro with great international attention is not something that leading politicians can use against each other in their own personal conflict, especially when the government already has a negative view of the country. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The 5 percent increase in GDP, right?]] This catfight [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: This is not the LMP!]] [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: This is not the LMP!]] sending childish messages through the media (Dr. Bence Rétvári: This is not LMP!) non-interest of Hungary [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Talk about the LMP.]] Not at the time, Mr. Secretary of State. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You're talking to the Minister, Congressman.]] in particular when there is a procedure under Article 7 against Hungary. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You started it! We know! Dr. Brenner Koloman:]] Excuse me, Mr. President, may I ask for some help? I can't hear my own voice, Mr. Secretary...
u2019-12-17-104	Congressman, continue, please, continue. For now, I'm in charge of the meeting.
u2019-12-17-105	How can they resolve the contradiction that while a member of the government is talking about the euro, the President of the Central Bank, and even the chief economic policy ideologist of Fidesz-KDNP, are constantly communicating against the euro? I think that Hungary has the right to know what the Prime Minister of Hungary thinks, what the government thinks about this issue. So I ask with respect your position on the introduction of the euro. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-17-106	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Minister István Nagy, who will answer the immediate question. Mr. Secretary, please.
u2019-12-17-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Member, He says there's a disturbance between the economy and our economic policies. I have to say that's not true. Thinking that they're asking questions, that they're looking at effects, that they're looking at opportunities, I think it's an important duty. The involvement of society in this [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: Shock!]] It is also an important duty, since preparing society for all the effects, all the phenomena that result from the introduction of the euro or from the non-introduction of the euro, is a very important thing for this to be done. [[17.00]] I must say to you that when there is thinking, no one should ever be afraid of it; and it seems that the Hungarian economy is working well. It works well above the European average, as GDP growth is still 5 per cent. I believe that we will never wish the Hungarian economy a worse economic performance than what it is doing now. I hope that, as long as Hungary has two of these leading economic policies, either at the head of the central bank or at the head of the Ministry of Finance, we can all rest our heads in peace, because the economy is safe, it will perform what all Hungarians can be proud of. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-17-108	Thank you very much, Minister. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2019-12-17-109	Thank you very much for the floor. We just didn't get an answer to the question, Minister. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Discuss within the party!]] What is the Hungarian government's position on the introduction of the euro? I can't say it any more clearly, Minister. That's the question! According to the Parliamentary Act, this question must be answered in substance. In relation to your reply, please tell me what you have involved Hungarian society with through the statements that have appeared and are the exact opposite of each other. Where has Hungarian society been involved? There is only one question about the performance of the Hungarian economy: are the economic processes that today characterize the Hungarian economy sustainable? [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] That's the question. Once again, I would like to reiterate in a structured way: what is the position of the Hungarian Government on the introduction of the euro? Thank you very much.
u2019-12-17-110	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2019-12-17-111	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you for the opportunity. I must say to you quite clearly: Hungary is ahead of the introduction of the euro. I hope you understand that answer. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] And the fact that you continue to wonder that all the progress that the Hungarian economy is making day by day is what you are trying to doubt. How many times have we experienced in international forecasts that the performance of the Hungarian economy has been underestimated, and the performance of Hungarian people has been able to bring by far 5 percent above the European average. I think, dear Member, that you should come with us, rejoice in this result, and be proud of the performance of the Hungarian people, because you are above average and above example. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-17-112	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Sándor Burány, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What is going on? It's an address. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: The co-operation pressure! Noise.]] Fellow Members! If you finish this dialogue, I will also try to give the floor to the Member, but now I ask you to stop. We can't continue the meeting until then. Thank you. Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister has appointed Minister István Nagy to respond to an urgent public task. I ask you to accept the person of the responding person or to ask for the answer in person. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-12-17-113	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, According to the latest projections of the Hungarian National Bank, inflation [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: This is not what we expected! This is not the way to start.]] It'll be 3.4 percent next year. In addition, if we add that there is obviously going to be higher inflation in the basket for pensioners, I have to say: [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: We weren't expecting a speech about inflation!]] Something must be done to raise pensions. After all, if we look at the price of food in the basket of pensioners, [[Nacsa Lőrinc: We should start with an apology!]] It increased by more than 5 percent, including pork by nearly 15 percent, sugar by about 11 percent, seasonal foods like potatoes, fresh vegetables and fruit by almost 9 percent, so we can clearly see that the 2.8 percent prognosis that the government has written in the budget law in terms of inflation is flawed. As a result, once we know that the pension increase is equal to the inflation rate scheduled for the budget, it is already apparent that the rate of pension increase will be lower than actual inflation next year. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Better apology!]] That means... don't yell at me, Congressman. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Where's the apology? Dr. Bence Rétvári: Was that your apology to stop yelling? The president's ringing the bell.]] This means that pensioners lend to the budget instead of ensuring a pension increase for pensioners. I therefore ask the Minister with respect what the Government intends to do to ensure that the pension increase actually reaches the level of actual inflation. I look forward to your reply.
u2019-12-17-114	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister István Nagy. Here you go, Minister.
u2019-12-17-115	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honour, my fellow Member. The Hungarian government concluded an agreement with pensioners in 2010 that while there is a national government in Hungary, the purchasing value of their pension remains. And I believe that the example of recent years is the assurance and proof that the Hungarian government has kept its word. After all, it is important for the Hungarian government to enjoy the trust of pensioners, especially for moral reasons, because it was our parents and grandparents who brought this country back on its feet, which did not allow it to be lost during the darkest communism. Therefore, their efforts must be acknowledged not only in words but also in actions. This is what the additions and all the support that we have given them in terms of either the reduction of the rent or other government measures are always for. Since 2010, the real value of pensions has increased by about 10 percent. We have returned pensions taken before 2010 in several steps. Pensiones grow by 2.7 percent, i.e. an average of 42 thousand HUF per year in 2019. In the form of a pension premium, pensioners also benefit from economic success. First, they received such an allowance of HUF 24 billion and HUF 41 billion in November 17 and then in 18 respectively. This November, pensioners receive an average pension premium of HUF 20,000 and a pension supplement of HUF 11,000. I think that even within the framework of the Women's 40s programme, more than 240 thousand women could retire after 40 years of employment, and that the reduction of the rent can also save a large amount of money for pensioners that is significantly noticeable. If I look at my own area of expertise, the VAT reduction that has been shown in food is all about strengthening the content of a certain shopping cart. You're right: we can and will have to do more, but what we've done will not be taken away from us. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-17-116	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2019-12-17-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In the area of pension increases, they managed to achieve a doubling of the proportion of elderly poor in Hungary between 2014 and 2017. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes.]] While this was 4.6 percent in 2014, this rose to 9.8 percent in 2017, according to official statistics, Member, I am just saying. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: It only shows that the wages have gone. That's not true.]] It would be possible to change this negative trend if the proposals of the Dialogue were adopted. One is that the so-called Swiss indexation should be re-introduced, so that wage increases should also be taken into account when raising pensions. This should be eliminated by you in 2012, and in the same way as our proposals, so that after a sufficient period of service, the minimum value of pensions is at least equal to the minimum level of living; this is 90-95 thousand forints today. So I ask the government that it is willing to follow these proposals, to do so in order to stop the increase in the proportion of poverty in old age. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2019-12-17-118	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Minister. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2019-12-17-119	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, And the moral issue that is of paramount importance to the governments and to the national government is that, recognising the performance of our ancestors, we can give them a way of life and a way of life that can give them a decent life. [[17.10]] When we talk about how we can give more, I think the Hungarian government is always open to that. We are examining the state of the economy and its potential. Let us discuss how we can give more, what form we can give more to our retired countrymen, because they deserve it, because their work will enable us to enjoy the lifelong challenge that we can all enjoy. We all have to thank them for that. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-17-120	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mónika Dunai, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "The Gyurcsányek is covering for the Gotharek." Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to answer the question because of his urgent public mission. I ask Congresswoman to accept the person who is responding. [[Mónika Dunai:]] Yes, the floor is yours.
u2019-12-17-121	Thank you very much, yes, I accept your response.
u2019-12-17-122	You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2019-12-17-123	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, It is clear to us that the leadership of the capital has applied double standards. While in the alleged harassment case involving the New Theatre a supervisory committee was ordered, the Gothar case was lenient to the current Balliberian majority City Hall. It is a shame that Ferenc Gyurcsány, Gergely Christmas and the whole left are deeply silent about the Gothar sexual harassment scandal. It's a shame to be covered up for cover-ups. That is why they lie in the morning, at noon and at night about the Act on the Promotion of Theatres adopted by Parliament. The reality is that the capital and all other municipalities maintain as many theatres as they want. The Metropolitan Theatre can only be closed by the Metropolitan Assembly. Nothing in Hungary violates creative freedom. But isn't it possible for the state to support the Soldier József Theatre in such a way that it can't interfere: is there a harassment case or is there no harassment case? Or that he can't control and protect actors from harassment. The law creates a transparent operating model, crystal clear predictable situation and responsibilities for the maintenance of theatres. Ladies and gentlemen, Sexual harassment does not and cannot have political color, and everyone must equally condemn it. I think there must be consequences for the Gothar case. [[Péter Ungár: Yes, you are fired!]] Clearly, for the opposition, MeToo is just a selective communication campaign. Dear Secretary of State, I ask you, in light of what has been said, there will be any consequences of the attempts by the leaders to keep quiet, to cover up the harassment case. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-17-124	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. [[For the continuous intervention of Ildikó Bangóné Borbély:]] Congresswoman Bango, may I ask you to stop? Thank you. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-12-17-125	If Mrs. Bango's conscience has spoken, I think we should give her the floor. But if that is not the case, I can tell you, Honourable House, that what we saw in the Havas Henrik case, we can see the same thing in the Gothar case. For the opposition, there are cases where they all line up and protest in unity fronts, and there are cases where they listen in unity fronts, cover up, try to round everything up and talk about everything in the past tense. I think it would be in our best interest to prevent similar cases from taking place later and to cover them up. The opposition did not make any proposals in this regard so that later the methods of concealment, cover-up and concealment could not be used, but it itself actively contributed to this, Mayor Gergely Christmas, Gy. Erzsébet Németh is Deputy Mayor, or here are the Members who have signed petitions from the opposition side, and now they have not spoken. And I am very pleased that you are still in this Chamber, because last week, too, the press has been loud from you, and also from Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, when you said that sexual harassment is a coercion in this matter. I would very much like him to speak out on account of his personal attack, because when our fellow Member here in Parliament called for his apologies for this statement, he just said that he should not complain. To him, an apology is a yelling, while, in other cases, you have already yelled at me today, honourable Member, because we have only increased family support by two and a half times and not more. Perhaps you would like to say a few words to your fellow Member and not to smile at his speech at the committee meeting. But even their fellow Congressman Lajos Korózs just said that Sándor Burány has a good sense of humor, who didn't understand it, should blame himself. I'm hoping someone will press a button for personal assault and clear the air. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-17-126	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return. Here you go.
u2019-12-17-127	Thank you very much for the floor and thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. I believe that in this and similar harassment cases, everyone should condemn these acts, those who do this, and those who try to cover them up and listen deeply. Everyone can be expected to condemn these actions. This could also be expected from my fellow Member, Mr Sándor Burány. I would have been so pleased if he had started his immediate question by apologizing, instead of talking about inflation! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking you all to come clean: do you condemn sexual harassment, any form of aggression, or not? If you don't, then it's an answer, and if you do, I'm asking you to declare it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-17-128	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2019-12-17-129	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, She also spoke about the amendment of the cultural law to theatres, which has created clearer and more transparent relations. Numerous theater organizations supported this proposal and said that they had long been waiting for clean conditions for the funding of theatres and the support of theatres. At the same time, we see a very narrow but very loud balliberal group confronting not only the government, but also going to the Vígszínház and even there interrupting a performance, its applause. Transparents are being raised in a theater just because they want to pressure someone, Eszenyi Enikő and the Vígszínház to act against the government, not as theater director, and actors should not be concerned with the theatre, but with politics and anti-government politicians. It is unacceptable that some people think that they can go to theaters and blackmail you so that they can put pressure on artists, actors, or theatre directors. This is not just a fight, but a kind of cultural terrorism that is used, that anyone who is not a balliberal activist in Budapest as an actor can be used against any means that hasn't happened in Hungary in decades. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Constant interruptions.]]
u2019-12-17-130	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I know it's the end of the year, but I'm asking you to stay calm. Looks like we're gonna have a lot of fights today. Dear Parliament, Tamás Csányi, a representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:, How credible is the government's policy? It's an address. Prime Minister has appointed Minister István Nagy to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2019-12-17-131	I'll take it.
u2019-12-17-132	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-12-17-133	Thank you very much for the floor. I'm judging to say just one sentence to the previous one. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Do you mean Sándor Burány?]] Dear Minister, Let's face it, that didn't work out. Well, you've tried your best, but it certainly doesn't seem to be enough. The MTVA was available from nearly HUF 93 billion, and they really say whatever they want, I mean, you guys. This year, too, nearly 30 billion for government communication, as an election year, but there is no reason to worry, there will also be 24 billion next year. So calm down, there's money uncounted for propaganda, and we're reading that we're poor. We don't say it, they say it about us. But a man from far away says what he wants, doesn't he? It's just that the numbers don't look that way. In fact, according to Eurostat's latest survey, we have only two competitors left for the undisputed title of the poorest country in Europe. The survey shows the unfortunate fact that an average Hungarian citizen spent 102 thousand forints last month, which is only 64 percent of the European Union's average. That's what the Croatians are spending, and that's less than the last Bulgarians on the list are spending. That's it. It's kind of embarrassing to hear. But it is also unpleasant that the Romanians have been ahead of us for years, and we also know that both teachers and doctors make more money than Hungarian colleagues than our eastern neighbour. How can that be, Minister? According to the same source, the Czechs are spending above average, and we have to say that the analyses consider that they reach the EU average as soon as possible from the region. [[17.20]] Isn't that what we used to aim for? What went wrong, then? You've been ruling for nine years with full power. They could do what they wanted politically and economically in this country, but apparently you guys stayed. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] in ghentri urization [[The president's ringing again.]] , luxury roads, private aircraft, EU funds draining.
u2019-12-17-134	Thank you very much, Congressman.
u2019-12-17-135	Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-12-17-136	Of course, you'll be able to continue at the next minute. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister István Nagy. Here you go, Minister.
u2019-12-17-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My dear fellow Member, I am always saddened by the fact that all the effort that Hungarian people make is that you, twisting it like that, simply want to underestimate it. All that has happened over the last ten years, look where we started, how much unemployment was in 2010, where the economy's performance was. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right.]] What was the biggest problem with all this and where it is today. [[György Szilágyi: They have been governing for nine years.]] I say to you, too, if we need to talk about how we can do better, what we need to do to strengthen the economy, so that we can put more on people's tables, then I'm a partner in that. But it is not that all the performances that Hungarian people have placed on the table are underestimated or simply overlooked. I strongly reject that. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-17-138	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in a minute. Here you go.
u2019-12-17-139	Thank you very much for the floor. I'm not saying it, it's Eurostat, so you're not arguing with me, Minister, you're arguing with Eurostat. On the other hand, allow me two examples, since we are talking about sadness, I will tell you on the matter of poverty, which I am experiencing myself. What, then, should we say to a little boy who has the opportunity to clean only normally in the shower at the school because there is no bathroom, parents, children can wash only in a plastic baby bath? Or what should we tell the little girl in second grade who complains to the teacher that she has to wash her clothes at home when she goes home from school because there is no washing machine at home? They're probably looking at where we started, and they're proud of what the government has achieved. Dear Minister, It is Advent, the time of waiting, we dress our souls and hearts in celebrations, we give gifts and we receive gifts, we expect them. But you, you know, Minister, unfortunately under the Christmas tree have put poverty and the unimportable catch-up, and I think it's a shame. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-12-17-140	Dear Parliament, You have the Minister's answer. You have the floor, Minister.
u2019-12-17-141	Thank you very much, Mr. President. What hurts me is that they just don't want to know that it doesn't matter where we start. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] It doesn't matter what disadvantage we have to overcome because our political ancestors have taken advantage of the opportunity that we should have taken advantage of. [[Constant noise, interruptions from Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] We've had enormous difficulties. I have to tell you, if you look at the children's meal, our children at school, there's no starving child going home hungry today. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Or the question of the textbook is all effort, but it doesn't have to be underestimated. If you tell us to do more, fine, let's talk about it. And if it is advent, then let me tell you, as a lesson, the great miracle of the Hungarian language, which is about love and hatred, and then I say with the miracle of the Hungarian language: Szer-et and hate-kill. Let's put it under the Christmas tree for next year. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. György Szilágyi intervenes.]]
u2019-12-17-142	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, [[Noise, interruptions from opposition lines.]] I know it's hard, but I need you to hang in there for a few minutes, if you please. Nacsa Lőrinc, representative of KDNP... [[Constant noise in Jobbik's ranks, György Szilágyi consults with his fellow Members.]] Congressman Szilágyi, may I ask you? [[György Szilágyi: What did I do?]] I'm sorry about the noise. I would like to speak to my fellow Member. [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] Mr.Lőrinc Nacsa, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: - Will the people of the past return to power in Budapest? It's an address. Minister Balázs Orbán has appointed Minister of State to respond to the urgent public mission. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yes, the floor is yours.
u2019-12-17-143	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In the municipal election campaign, the opposition campaigned with the development of health care in Budapest and with many promises, such as the 20,000 HUF heating aid for pensioners and large families or the free BKV for certain groups. Gergely Christmas also said in the campaign that he will introduce a stadium stop for health improvements in Budapest. Two months after the election, we see that promises have turned into sneaking. What we're seeing is that instead of a stadium stop, they're calling for a hospital stop, and there's no sign of transparency, no ashes. However, it is clear that in two months, power- and money-hungry Balliberal politicians have turned municipalities into simple paying places. Balliberal power gains in Budapest cost the Budapest people an extra billion forints a year. [[Noise, interruptions from the opposition benches.]] The fallen cadres of the ill-respected Gyurcsány government and the demszky-age men return to power and receive well-paying positions. Of course, in the spirit of transparency. Tibor Draskovics, Sofia Havas, János Atkári, Tamás Katona, István Kolber, Zoltán Gál, Imre Lakos, Zoltán Bodnár, György Magyar or István Vágó are just a few names. Also in the spirit of transparency, Csaba Czeglédy, the Gyurcsányist criminal, is responsible for examining several districts. After that, the untrained, extreme liberal [[Defiance, noise, interrogations from the opposition benches.]] SZDSZ Ungár Klára has been appointed head of the Újpest Specialist's Office because healthcare is so important to the wrecking coalition. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Health care is an important issue in our view, it is in the interests of the people, because blackmailing Gergely Christmas and dancing out of promises are not in the interest of the people of Budapest. That is why I ask the Honourable Secretary of State what the government can do to improve Budapest so that the people of Budapest do not suffer the power and money hunger of the Balliberals. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-17-144	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary Balázs Orbán. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2019-12-17-145	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, we also see that, unfortunately, the situation is as if we were entering the twenty-first year of the Demszky era, and those persons who were, by the way, in the capital city between 90 and 2010, or in the socialist-balliberal government between 2002 and 2010, were the beneficiaries of its activity, and I quote, were all found at home in the capital city or in the districts led by Gergely Christmas. It is quite surreal, by the way, if you have heard the speeches before the agenda, that, meanwhile, left-wing opposition representatives are praising the work of Gergely Christmas as if they were North Koreans. [[Expansion, uproar, interrogation from the opposition benches.]] And the North Korean dictator should be praised. It's just poor North Koreans don't do it voluntarily, they do it under duress, so their situation can be considered multiple times serious. Moreover, even situations or corruption situations on the left that were revealed in the campaign did not have any consequences and were completely obvious. Let's just think about the case of the mayor and congressman in Kispest. It's a very clear corruption situation. Left-wing representatives are fleeing from answering here, in Parliament, and also in the district, missing phone numbers, unrecognized old comrades, it seems that no one is responsible for these things. We believe that, yes, there has been a political responsibility over the last few months after the municipal elections, and these can be found on the opposition political side. By the way, all the government can do in this situation is declare that it always, under all circumstances, wants to work for the interests of the people of Budapest. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-17-146	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2019-12-17-147	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your answer. We see that for the opposition, the current positions of the local government serve two objectives: on the one hand, they see the municipalities as fighting against the government, as a bridgehead, not looking at the interests of the people, the interests of the inhabitants of the settlement, and on the other hand, they degrade the municipalities into principle-friendly paying places. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] We don't think this is the right way. A local government leader should look at the interests of the inhabitants of the settlement, not demoting the municipalities to a place of principle-friendly paying. [[Constant noise, interruptions from the opposition benches.]] Ruin coalition from the Democratic Coalition to the LMP, through the Socialists to the Dialogue, Momentum and Jobbik, of course. [[Uproar, constant interruptions from the opposition benches.]] This is the local government's goal to make warheads from municipalities and to make municipalities pay places. Of course, the taxpayers in Budapest were happy to contribute to the 30 million HUF thank-you party that Gergely Christmas organized for herself. I just hope it wasn't one of those Lackner parties. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] [[17 .30]]
u2019-12-17-148	Thank you, Congressman. [[A statement from Jobbik: You didn't talk about Borka again!]] Dear Parliament, Bangóné Borbély Ildikó... [[Intercoms.]] [[Intercoms.]] I'm sorry. (Interjections. ) Dear Parliament! The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. I'm asking for your understanding, but the noise at the end of the year is not easy anymore, so from now on, the warning will start. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. If you want it, you can have it. It's okay. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2019-12-17-149	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I am very pleased that the better Members are also taking on the negative signals we have made about the performance of the Balliberal side, because this proves nothing more than what we have been saying for weeks, months that you belong together. Even though you deny it, you belong to a group, and I'm glad that in this sense you take on all corruption scandals, from the outside, you seem to share responsibility. By the way, what did we see in the first two months? Tax increases, traffic charges, real estate tax ideas, chaos in managing snow conditions, increased benefits for political appointees, hospital stop advertising, museum stop advertising, so far it looks like the City Council of Public Developments is saying no to a gallery, saying no to an innovation house, and saying no to a children's theatre. In addition, we can talk about stalled investments, and at the zoo an investment has been stalled, which has already been handled by an ex-leading politician on the Balliberal side. So, unfortunately, we have to say [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The experience of the first period is that nothing good can be expected, just like before, from the Balliberal side. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-17-150	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Innovation and Technology an immediate question: A minus 18 has become an extra twenty-five. How is that possible? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr János Schanda as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the congresswoman, if she accepts the person who is responding, or if she asks the Minister for the answer in person.
u2019-12-17-151	Of course I'll take it.
u2019-12-17-152	You have the floor.
u2019-12-17-153	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Don't let me close the year without MÁV! My question was how the Hungarian State Railways can achieve this only in Hungary, from minus 18 to 25 immediately. On 15 December, the new agenda came into force, despite the fact that thousands of people signed a petition asking the leadership of the MÁV and the influential members of the government not to enter into force. The request of thousands of people was not met, and on the very first day, with the new timetable on the Budapest-Szeged line, one of the intercity trains was immediately 25 minutes late, and the other 11... I know that the answer will be, Mr. State Secretary, that the rail was broken, as the Hungarian State Railways said, that this caused the problem. You know, Mr. Secretary, as a passenger, you're tired of the fact that when it snows, it's because of the snow, when the sun shines, it's because of the sun, if the wind blows, if there's nothing, trains in Hungary are late because of nothing. And then let me tell you, today's example is that I'm going on the intercity train in Bishop's Lady, I'm coming up to Budapest, we're going to be late for 15 minutes, and then we're going to be late for another 5 minutes and 20 minutes, which no one could tell, because the rails didn't break or the wind blew, nothing happened, because the passengers had a torn thread. The passenger takes off in Kőbánya-Kispest without being able to take off, and we stand for five minutes because the ticket inspector argued, and he told us his truth, and so did the passenger. The passenger said that he was sick of being constantly lectured about compliance with the rules, but the Hungarian State Railways did not comply with any rules, nor did the government. I look forward to your reply that thousands of people have signed this petition, and the Minister has acknowledged that this may not be good, and that this schedule will work for six months, but then they will restore why thousands of people should be bullied [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] For six months, when you know this isn't good? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2019-12-17-154	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás János Schanda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-12-17-155	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I suggest that, when you are looking for those responsible for railway matters, you take a first look around the Socialist and DK factions, I can assure you that there will be a hit. After all, it is primarily because of your former and current party partners Ferenc Gyurcsány and Balliberal governments led by Gordon Bajnai that we inherited the national railway company as a small and indebted organisation in 2010. The thing is, you didn't make any improvements, you closed down railway lines, you put thousands of railroad families at risk with the bulk of your failed decisions. You have also neglected the modernisation of railway infrastructure, and we continue to bear the burden of this failure. The reason for the delays, as you said, was a rail break at West Station. Thank you for not contributing to the development of the railway. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The Fidesz-KDNP government has taken the MÁV against you. It has started to develop underdeveloped for many decades and is working to ensure that rail transport is a modern travel opportunity for more and more road users, offering a real alternative to driving. The rail agenda introduced on 15 December has brought a number of positive changes, an expansion of supply and an increase in service standards. Passengers can choose the one that is most suitable for them from a number of lines of better quality. The journey time between the capital city and several major cities has been significantly reduced. With new and extended intercity flights, we help to reach rural settlements. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-17-156	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return.
u2019-12-17-157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, do you know what the biggest joke was this morning, by the way? That I read on the train that your public opinion research company quickly conducted a survey, the Nézőpont Intézet, and the answer to the scandals of the past few weeks came quickly, that otherwise passengers are much more satisfied with the services of the MÁV, what is happening today on the MÁV is only for the benefit of passengers, and that everyone, indeed, loves it very much. Secretary of State, I am a member of a group whose name is that I am sick of the MÁV, I might add, I am not sick of it, and I say to the Secretary of State, when he accuses that we have contributed nothing to the development of the MÁV, well, you know, Mr State Secretary, at least I travel on the MÁV, unlike many of them. I am asking the Secretary of State, and I am not speaking for myself before Christmas, you know very well, and the Minister has already admitted that this agenda is not good. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Then why do you have to introduce it if you can and for six months you're screwing with these people, don't do this before Christmas...
u2019-12-17-158	Thank you, Congresswoman...
u2019-12-17-159	...and then I wish you a merry Christmas.
u2019-12-17-160	... before christmas. Thank you. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go.
u2019-12-17-161	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I have to correct you, because Minister Palkovic has also said that we are following the results of this change, and, if necessary, we will do the fine-tunings he said. My request is that you do not change the Minister's words. On the other hand, let's watch it one more time. You left the MÁV behind with a debt of $300 billion. This has been consolidated, and we have managed to reduce the debt to one tenth. By 2023, almost HUF 1700 billion will be spent on upgrading railway stations, railway lines and vehicles. What did you do during your administration? And the fact that we are moving in the right direction is no better proof than that the number of passengers in MÁV-Start increased from 138 million in 2015 to 141 million in four years, and the railway company carried 105 million passengers in the first three quarters of this year. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-17-162	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of LMP, wants to ask the Minister without a wallet for the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, who takes responsibility for Paks2 investment? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman. [[17.40]]
u2019-12-17-163	Thank you for the opportunity. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, I would like to ask you two very simple questions regarding the largest project in Hungary. We are talking about a $4,000 billion project that you have given to the Russians without a proposal on the ground that they are the only ones who will be able to do this task. We know that the Russians have not been able to deliver the entire design documentation since then, and that the deadline has already been recognised by you. As I recall, the last promise is that by the summer of next year, the plans will be ready and the authorisation procedure will begin. My first question, Minister, is that if we fail to meet this deadline again, so that the Russians are still unable to deliver these plans, they will finally withdraw from this development project. And if that is the case, will Prime Minister, in addition to Minister, take personal responsibility for this gravely flawed decision? My second question is in close connection with this. We know that you have started this big project, building new nuclear power stations, that there is no solution to the issue of final disposal of high-activity nuclear waste anywhere in the world, neither in terms of technology nor in terms of financing. We know that 10 billion HUF has been spent so far in the area of Pécs in the Bodai Claystone Formation researching the possible location of the nuclear cemetery without asking the affected population. There's been a huge protest, thousands of people have signed different protests. In April 2015, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán personally promised in Pécs that, despite the wishes and intentions of the Pécs, this project could not be implemented. Since then, the Pécs people have not been asked, but a week ago, on 10 December, the General Assembly of Pécs, with a unanimous decision, has also declared that the city of Pécs does not want this project. My question, Minister, is that you are willing to take note of the decision of the General Assembly of the Government of Pécs and are willing to take steps to ensure that the Prime Minister's promise does not become a lie. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-17-164	Thank you. I give the floor to Minister János Süli. Here you go, Minister.
u2019-12-17-165	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, The responsible, as in my name, is I, then the short answer is for the design, construction and commissioning of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. And I would like to clarify that by the end of September, before the deadline for October 2nd, the Russian party gave it to us. These plans are available, and from these plans we have 8 months to ensure that VI. on the 20th of the month, VI. We'll hand it over to the OAH by 30th of month. They have 15 months to assess this and allow the investment. So from now on, I can give you the exact dates, because what you're missing is that we didn't get the plans, as a matter of fact, it's been handed over. The authorisation procedure is a complicated process, and the authority will also involve foreign experts, and in this context we will receive the authorisation. What I can tell you about the research in Boda is that it is not within my jurisdiction to do the RHK Kht, so the waste management is a public benefit company, but I can confirm it on the basis of my information, and if we are concerned that Boda is suitable at all, because there is even a question of suitability, and there is no research of such depth that could be said, then, according to the laws in force, Pécs is not bordered, so there is no limit, so it has its associated metes with Boda as an area, so it has the competent settlements, which should be involved. But since the Prime Minister has promised, the promise will also be fulfilled, that we will give Pécs the opportunity to give his opinion and if we find arguments that we cannot answer, then there will be no waste disposal. Please accept my answer. Thank you. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-12-17-166	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2019-12-17-167	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to update your information. In the spring of 2019, the Bodai Claykő Formáció granted a site search permit for this particular project, so the decision of the OAH was made that there were no grounds for refusal. I am very keen on Minister's commitment to say that you are responsible. I think that it may be clear to all of us that, in connection with such a $4,000 billion project, the political responsibility lies with your prime minister. So I think that we are not talking about plans, we are talking about planning documentation, we are talking about authorisation documentation. The Minister is obviously also responsible for this project, but I believe that the Prime Minister's personal responsibility for Hungary's largest project cannot be avoided if this commitment is not fulfilled again. And I have one more question. In the summer, I think, in early July, at his ministerial hearing, he said that you had no idea when the Russians would bring the right plans, and that the Russians were now studying the domestic technical environment. Now that the plans have been completed, will the design documentation to be prepared next summer, on this basis, be suitable for the launch of a permit procedure in the domestic technical environment? Thank you.
u2019-12-17-168	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2019-12-17-169	So as far as the nearly 170,000 pages of documentation are concerned, this is continuous, as there has been serious work, but it is a 300,000-page documentation directly along with the annexes. The only way we took this from the Russian side was to be sure that the licence application could be submitted to the authorities. In the licence application, it is shown that, on the basis of the available documentation, the security criteria that the requirements of the Union and Hungary can be built on the block. So we wouldn't have taken over the plan if there wasn't a guarantee. So I can confirm that this work is taking place together with our experts, and I can also confirm that Hungary was a top performance these days, with 7105 megawatts of power, and that the solar power plants were able to deliver 9 megawatts in the system, nearly 1000 megawatts and 97 megawatts in the nearly 270 megawatt capacity. So if we want stable, reliable, cheap electricity to be available, then I also ask these data to be taken into account. Thank you. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-12-17-170	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the immediate questioning. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, asked for the floor on a point of order. If it's a point of order, it's up to you.
u2019-12-17-171	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Help me. What provision of the Act on Parliament or the House Rule allows the Secretary of State to clearly interfere with the condition of the immediate question with his continuous speech? If there is no such pass to the house rules or the parliamentary law, I would like to ask Mr President what to think of the double standard we can see when you allow the Secretary of State of Rétvár to...
u2019-12-17-172	Congressman, stop here for a moment, please. [[Antal Csárdi: Yes!]] The president of the meeting was criticized by the House Rule 49. Paragraph 1 of this Article does not allow...
u2019-12-17-173	In a case-by-case comment you have the opportunity to do so... [[Péter Ungár's intervention.]]
u2019-12-17-174	You may ask for a point of order if the President considers this to be a point of order. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's a motion...]] All you're doing in the Parliament is criticizing the president of the meeting. I think that the person who was in this Chamber today was able to measure the behaviour of the Members of Parliament on the last day in this House. I think it's unworthy, but that's your job, it's not my job to decide. You define your own activities by your own conduct. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches.]] Congressman, I do not consider this a point of order. Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr Sándor Burány, Mr Dialogue Group, asked for the floor on a point of order. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-12-17-175	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I asked you to speak for personal involvement.
u2019-12-17-176	There you go. You have the floor in two minutes.
u2019-12-17-177	Then let's get this straight. About a week ago, at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, several opposition representatives, including Mr Balczó, Member Varga, Member Arató, complained that, for the sake of simplicity, the government introduced a right of veto on the operation of theatres in a proposal for a cultural law. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Introduce...]] This use of the word did not appeal to the leading president, Csaba Hende, and ordered opposition representatives to order the words that what opposition representatives consider to be a right of veto is nothing more than co-operation. Csaba Hende said that first. This is what I said in the form that if veto rights can be converted into co-operative coercion, then harassment could also be regarded as co-operative. I didn't insult women. You, on the other hand, who have been constantly criticizing me for a week now, even reprimanding me, or having a fundamental interpretation problem, or compulsive liars. [[17.50]] I am willing to cooperate, fellow Members, to fight harassment together; I can propose two forms of harassment as a result. One: ratifying the Istanbul Convention we have demanded several times, and I would be happy to vote with you. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Antal Csárdi, Péter Ungár and Olivio Kocsis-Cake applaud.]] The other is, if you have such a need to resign, have Lajos Kósa canceled, he said in connection with an anal abuse in high school that it wasn't harassment. If you have such delicate tastes, turn to him in a choir, demand his resignation, we will endure it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-12-17-178	Dear Parliament, On a point of order, Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2019-12-17-179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Joining my fellow Member Burány for personal involvement, because not only my fellow Member Burány, but I have been constantly under attack for a week since then, as they say, I had a good laugh at the committee meeting. I would also warn the Secretary of State and the fellow Members of the Fidesz that the protocol is public, it can be read, now, thanks to God, after several days of begging, my fellow Members with dialogue also received the video; which, interestingly, the opposition could obtain in one day, because it was sent to him, now it could be received after a week of begging. After all, in some way, this mailing back and forth meant that you were hiding something and knowingly misleading the voters. I can join my fellow Members in Burány [[Bence Rétvári: Are there more of them? Interview in the ranks of Fidesz: There are many...]] that you have very strange tastes; very strange. When in their own ranks, Congressman József Balogh almost beat his wife to death. [[Bence Rétvári: Where is he in our line?]] Or Lajos Kósa's statement, interestingly, did not hold daily press conferences, criticize their own representatives, call for resignation, or even hear one sentence, do you know what the most horrifying thing is? from the female Members of Parliament from the benches of the Fidesz-KDNP, from the female Members of Parliament and from you, Mr Secretary of State. And please, everyone here is referring to Christmas, so at least stop lying like crazy before Christmas. You know, sooner or later, everyone gets caught up in their lies, their own lies. At least don't generate it, because you know as well as I do that you're lying about this case, you're twisting it, you're throwing it all away because you're trying to distract us from something else, and you know what it is. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Bence Rétvári: Are you apologizing or not apologizing?]]
u2019-12-17-180	Dear Parliament, Now it's time for questions. Péter Jakab, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question:, Will the government stop merging the Miskolc Obstetrics? It's an address. It is for Congressman Peter James.
u2019-12-17-181	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, I am speaking to you, not as a Member of Parliament, but rather as a Father of Miskolc. You know, we Miskolcs stick to everything that's in Miskolc, and that's the way it is with the obstetrics of the city hospital, and we're simply emotionally clinging to it. I am no exception in this respect, because my third son saw the light of day in this hospital, and I thank the workers for the experience I had in this institution. Now, I have to worry, Mr. Secretary, because there's a rumor that you want to bring together the obstetrics of Miskolc and County Hospitals, and if you do that, the county hospital should now have 4500 births instead of 2200 births a year, which is the impossible category. He replied to my written question on the subject before the elections, essentially, that you had already crowded everything into the Borsod County Hospital in terms of active patient care, not yet in Miskolc obstetrics, so this is the line. 114 health workers then protested against this decision or action by signing it. I, with Pál Veres, Mayor of Miskolc, visited the director general of the county hospital last week, who informed us that there is currently no merger of obstetrics on the agenda. In my reading, it means that the Miskolcs have bought time. However, we, Mr Secretary, want not only to buy time, but also life, the lives that I hope will be born at Semmelweis Hospital in the coming years. Secretary of State, the profession protests the merger, the Miskolcs protest, petition for the rescue of obstetrics, more than 7,000 people signed this petition in five days. The city administration is also ready to stand up for the independence of obstetrics. So, after all this, I ask you, Mr. Secretary, is the government finally willing to hear the voices of the Miskolcs? Are you willing to stand down not only temporarily but permanently from the merger plan? I look forward to your reply, and I ask you to ignore the ringing, just focus on the question. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-12-17-182	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-12-17-183	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Congressman, Mr. Team Leader, Dear House, In previous answers, I have found that you did not pass on to the Miskolcs what we described in the reply, but something that could be brought into the mood, on which any petition can be based, although there is no basis for it, honourable Member. So I would like to reassure you and all other miskolci and those who live in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County and go to Miskolc, where they plan to give birth to their children, that they have nothing to worry about, but can deliver their children under the same conditions and even under better conditions. It is important for the government to ensure that obstetrics are not only as secure as possible, but that mothers are able to deliver their children under family-friendly conditions. For this reason, the government decided to grant the Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County Central Hospital and University Training Hospital a grant of HUF 359,5 million at the first stage of the application, which affected the obstetric gynecology department and the perinatal intensive care center at both sites. But we continued this support this year, and in addition to the HUF 359.5 million first round application, we provided an additional HUF 137.7 million in support, precisely so that these obstetrics, obstetrics and gynecology departments within the hospital could be as modern as possible, the more familiar, the more homely the mothers can bring their children into the world, and those who work there will receive additional trainings, or an approach to the hospital that can take place in a more familyly, as natural way as possible. Please also report to Miskolc that the government has provided nearly HUF 500 million in funding this year to ensure that obstetrics in Miskolc and Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County is as safe, as natural and family-friendly as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-17-184	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. How long will the government leave the decline in retail shops in Hungary? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2019-12-17-185	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, The decline in the number of retail shops in Hungary has been going on for years. According to the recent data of the KSH, at the end of the first half of 2019 there were 120 500 shops in Hungary, which is two thousand less than during the same period of the previous year. What we see is that most shops in rural Hungary in small settlements and villages end, one of the fundamental causes of this is wage growth and an increase in the minimum wage, which in most cases one or two personal businesses can no longer produce. We can see very well that in rural Hungary we are slowly getting to the point that not only there is no doctor's office, there is no school, kindergarten, but also the only pharmacy and shop closes. We can also see that in most cases, if the local convenience store operates in some way, people living in these settlements can gain more expensive access to basic daily food than if they go into larger cities. I would ask Mr Secretary of State to come up with a solution to this, because we are still talking about families in a difficult situation, often elderly, retired or with children, who have a very serious problem if they are unable to obtain food or even cleaning products locally for their daily maintenance. We cannot allow rural Hungary, rural settlements, to break down even more, and one of the conditions for this is to help the government at all times, including the shops, so that they can survive, and not to end when the post office, school, kindergarten and shop are closed, we will eventually condemn these settlements to death. I look forward to your reply to the Secretary of State.
u2019-12-17-186	Thank you. The question will be answered by Secretary of State Tamás János Schanda. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2019-12-17-187	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you for the floor. Allow me to answer your question by presenting some facts. [[18.00]] During the Fidesz-KDNP administration, wages have been on the rise and rise path for years, the minimum wage earners will receive twice as much gross wages this year as in 2010, this is a significant difference in your performance. Today there are more than four and a half million people working, 811 thousand more than in 2010, with an employment rate above 70 percent. And it is also a fact that today, a large part of the people in Hungary, the vast majority, make much more than they do during your catastrophic governance. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thanks to wage increases and tax cuts, Hungarian families can manage with more money. As a clear sign of this, domestic retail consumption has increased by more than 40 percent since 2010. The latest figures show that in October 2019 there is a 6.2 percent increase compared to the same period of the previous year, so we can say that for 76 months there has been an uninterruptible increase in retail sales for 76 months! This growth is not only shared by domestic and multinational business chains, but also by independent small businesses. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and To say that the government does nothing for the countryside is more than a distortion. Allow me to mention only a few important measures: we provide comprehensive assistance to the settlements with the .Hungarian village, we help the settlement of Hungarian families in the countryside with the CSOK in the village, and we support Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises with targeted measures, including tax reductions. Please accept my reply.
u2019-12-17-188	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:, Do you have money for a ship, but not for a bus? It's an address. Congressman Péter Ungár has the floor.
u2019-12-17-189	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Given the comparison between population and business tax, Győr is Hungary's richest county town. As a result, we could assume that the public services in Győr would be outstanding at the Hungarian level and would not deviate substantially from the public services of the Austrian municipalities a few kilometres away. Nevertheless, the state of public transport in Győr is tragic in Hungary, and worse than tragic in comparison with Austrian public transport. The fact is that in Győr in October more than a hundred, in November thirty, we do not know the data of December yet, but there are probably more than twenty flights left out because the local public transport company simply cannot pay the bus drivers' salaries. The fact is that there was a new bus purchase in Győr, but along with this bus purchase, according to the calculations of VEKE, Győr has the third oldest bus park in the bus parks of cities with county rights. There are buses that were placed on the market in Győr when János Kádár began his reign in Hungary. The thing is, there's a lot of money in Győr that went into the cash register, and all this money went somewhere else, not public services. This may mean that a lot of money has gone to Borkai and Rákosfalvy's land exchange business, the land exchange business that has damaged Győr's citizens and Győr County budget, and that means that those who have assisted in this money to run away and not touch the Győr people, but to carry out more private activities on the Adriatic, this shows that at the end of January we have to replace Fidesz Borkai and Balázs Pollreis to vote for the opposition's common candidate.
u2019-12-17-190	Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Tamás János Schanda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-12-17-191	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In fact, I am glad that you finished your question as you finished, because we were not actually listening to a covert campaign speech, but to a campaign activity that was fully undertaken. [[Péter Ungár: We are in the Parliament, this is where it belongs in Hungary!]] That the campaign events of a municipal mayor election should be held in Parliament [[Peter Ungár intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] I'm not so sure about that, but let's see. The situation, as you said, Győr and Győr-Moson-Sopron County are among the most important cities and counties in Hungary with economic power, and the statistical data show that the county had the lowest unemployment rate in the first half of 2019, the county's employment rate is clearly above the national average, and the average gross earnings of those living here stand out from national data. The families of Győr and the budget of Győr benefit directly from all of this in their wallets. Honourable Congressman, As regards the development of bus and coach transport, the government decided to support the purchase and further development of buses with low energy consumption and low CO2 and pollutant emissions or alternative, electric or compressed natural gas propulsion between 2020 and 2022, and from 1 January 2022 only the government will provide support for the purchase of electric buses. The government appreciates the people who work here. Volánbusz Zrt. its employees have received 30 percent wage development over the last three years, thanks to a wage agreement concluded with the government, which is now ending for 2017-19. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-17-192	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister of Defence:. Why the data of the military aircraft that travel the members of the government were banned and who were transported to Fuerteventura and Panama. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2019-12-17-193	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, Last week, Átlátsző reported that two aircraft of the type Airbus and two Falcons recently purchased by the Hungarian Defence Agency have been in places such as Dubai, Las Vegas, Malta, Panama or Fuerteventura in the past year. [[István Szilárd Németh intervenes.]] Szilárd Németh, I ask you to control yourself, because there may now be a serious punishment for this intervention. But more than once, machines have gone to cities that are not too far from the Hungarian border, such as Vienna, Bratislava or Arad. Minister Gergely Gulyás reported last week at the government briefing that in Dubai there was a cyber-cooperation meeting between the military and in the United States the arms director of the Hungarian Defence Forces was at a weapons exhibition, and the defence acknowledged to HVG that government members also traveled on military planes. Dear Minister, This whole plane situation raises many questions and is not completely transparent. It is unclear why non-governmental machines are being used by government members and the head of state, why they use defence machines. My questions are as follows: outside the defence, who are entitled to use the four aircraft? If people outside the defence can use them, why did Hungary not buy them as government machines? For what reason was flight data banned from the internet flight monitoring sites? Do you have instructions for pilots to turn off aircraft transponders? Who is entitled to give such an instruction? In addition, why were the trips to Fuerteventura not included in the summary that the defence wallet sent to HVG to request data in the public interest? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2019-12-17-194	Thank you. Minister Tibor Benkő will answer the question. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2019-12-17-195	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, For your questions, I can briefly say the following: more than 80 percent of the Hungarian military aircraft carry out military tasks. Of course, they are also prepared to do so, and we are also carrying out the transport of various public-law dignitaries or even members of the government. This is a completely natural, common custom and right, as it was determined at the meeting of the National Security Cabinet who could use these machines and in what form. Why don't we call it a steering machine? Because no one has ever been able to define that as a steering machine. [[18.10]] There are presidential machines, but I've never seen a soldier carry it outside of the presidents. So this is primarily about state-owned assets operated and maintained by the military and providing these opportunities beyond the soldiers, as I said, for the transport of public dignitaries or for air-based medical extraction. The reason why the machines were, I'm sorry to give you an answer, that the data was disabled or not done. HVG has these data from us. Although the data are not publicly available, they are available and we provided these data on the basis of a public data request, therefore HVG was able to write it. Why were the machines where you named them? The first is Panamanian. Well, the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade was there, and he said we'd open something there. It's all in the paper. And the other location, I can't even make a public opinion of it here. You have to come to the Ministry, you have to look. I can give you an example: that's how deliveries to Afghanistan happened, not in Afghanistan. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] We landed in Uzbekistan, and it was transported from there. You have to come in, public in this case. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-12-17-196	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. In the light of public affairs, I have allowed the answer to be given in the light of high-profile public affairs. Dear Parliament, Gergely Tapolczai, a representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. What further steps is the government planning in the area of disability in the next five years? " with the title " Congressman Gergely Tapolczai is the one who should take the floor.
u2019-12-17-197	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The National Association of Autists held a professional conference on 7 December, presenting the so-called DATA application, which helps people affected by autism, whether it is a school, home, workplace or other social area where they can assist in helping them live independently. This app is one of the apps that the government has provided HUF 4 billion in support of the development of within the framework of the infocommunications accessibility project. Applications such as the video-based sign language translation service, the so-called "Self-Self" application for visually impaired people or the application "Self-Life" for persons with intellectual disabilities have been created, or, for example, the application called "Unlimited Living for Persons with Disabilities" or, for example, the application "Verbalio afazia" based on the needs of persons with disabilities. These measures are also part of the national disability programme, which was adopted by Parliament for 10 years in 2015. Over the past four to five years, there has been a lot of progress in the area of disability, but there is still a lot of work to be done, of course, and I would like to ask the Secretary of State what the government has planned for the next five years, in advance of 2025. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2019-12-17-198	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-12-17-199	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Thank you, Mr President, for listing how many IT applications and IT tools are capable of making up for what is no longer in someone's possession, but with such IT tools. The government's strong vision is to continue to take action to ensure that all people with disabilities have the same chance of participating in society's life, managing cases in offices, taking jobs, and living life as fully as possible. You also pointed out that the National Assembly adopted the National Disability Programme, which provides the framework for strategic directions between 2015 and 2025. Now, on 10 December, a week ago, on the government's proposal, we adopted an amendment to the law that aims to ensure that those who lose their sight have access to basic rehabilitation services free of charge, under the same conditions and within a defined framework throughout the country. The Government's disability policy currently focuses on promoting employment and ensuring accessibility to services, as these two areas are crucial to improving the quality of life of people with disabilities. Today, some 150 thousand people with disabilities work in Hungary, the government has been able to increase the employment rate of people with disabilities from 18 percent to 40,6 percent, and we spend 43.5 billion forints per year on a proposal to enable people with disabilities to work with an accredited employer in 2020, with reduced contributions, a rehabilitation card, and in all other ways we strive for more people to work. Thank God, there are not only 3217 employers like in 2012, but 9 thousand employers now employ people with disabilities. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-12-17-200	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology: It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2019-12-17-201	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, A few years ago, serious changes were made in the field of PhD training. Even then, we drew attention to some anomalies that were reported by the new regulation, but they did not accept our proposals then or have not corrected the mistakes since then, so we are forced to bring them back to this House. One of these problems is that when a person is admitted to a doctoral school with a state scholarship, his years in doctoral school are not included in a later retirement plan. Young people are therefore carrying out this activity as a quasi-working activity for years, but it will not count for them to establish future pension rights. However, spending four years in doctoral training is not short, which would be important to include in working years. But the anomalies are not over, because the PhD scholarship is not a credible source of income, so the PhD students, who are mostly more close to their thirties, cannot claim housing loans, which is relatively often necessary in Hungary, which is facing a housing crisis today. Thus, doctoral students are often forced to sublet, which are not easy to pay from their scholarship, knowing the horrific rental prices of Budapest or other university cities. The other option is that they are forced to live in a dorm where we know well that Hungarian university cities do not abound, nor is it certain that a student in the middle of his 20s wants to do so. Dear Secretary of State, It is time to finally put in place legislation on doctoral training in the country, because it is important that future researchers are valued by the state in their training. Not only in words, but also by resolving these errors and contradictions. My question is, therefore, that the government will change this regulation in such a way as to include doctoral training in retirement and take steps to help them with borrowings. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-12-17-202	Thank you, Congressman. The question will be answered by Secretary of State Tamás János Schanda. You have the floor.
u2019-12-17-203	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government's aim is to create modern, efficient higher education that can increase the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy. We would like Hungarian young people to be part of this and also the winners of the future. We also want to ensure that they can study at better and more competitive universities and acquire a valuable degree that will help them find their place in life and in the labour market. To this end, inter alia, the number of student normative measures is increasing, the maximum cost envelope for training areas has increased, thus improving the funding of institutions. In 2018, the government provided more than HUF 25 billion in excellence support for students, academic researchers and higher education institutions. From 2019, 700 more people will be able to conduct doctoral studies in state scholarship form than before, with significantly higher scholarships. Honourable Congressman, As regards your question, I would like to inform you that the preparation of legislation on social security pensions is not the responsibility of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology. [[18.20]] At the same time, as the Ministry of Higher Education, the ITM is constantly examining all the opportunities that can contribute to the competitiveness and attractiveness of our higher education and can benefit the workers and students in it. It also examines the important budgetary and competitiveness implications of recognising full-time doctoral training as a service period. Thank you for your attention and I wish you a blessed Christmas. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-17-204	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck and Péter Ungár, representatives of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: When will the situation of disabled pensioners be resolved? It's an address. Congressman Péter Ungár has the floor.
u2019-12-17-205	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The thing is, in terms of government, you can see what's important to them and what's not, how soon they can decide things. When the Act on the Financing of Theatres had to be pushed through, it was 50 hours between submission and acceptance. In the case of invalid pensions, in vain, the Constitutional Court said five months ago that the government had to create a new law to correct this unconstitutional state, yet five months were not enough to submit this law. The fact is that the deadline of 31 March 2019, which the Constitutional Court cannot do is Balliberal, to say that it has been set to accuse me of bending, may not be met. The fact is that the amendment of the legislation is merely a codification issue, which requires them to acknowledge that public finances have previously been balanced on the back of people who are in great need of the money that you have taken. The general and philosophical problem of the EMMI is that it is always justified by reviews and often existing abuses, but in a much smaller proportion, to take away benefits that people really deserve. I suppose you agree that the bureaucracy that is necessary to review these, whether they are provided with disability care or with any other aid, this bureaucracy alone costs more than the money that has been saved in most cases. That's how it is now. Moreover, these people did not finance luxury life from disability pensions, and you did so unconstitutionally. You had five months to fix this. Why is the EMMI delaying in this? Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-12-17-206	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2019-12-17-207	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You have repeated twice today that the previous legislation was unconstitutional. You did not find that, honourable Member, the Constitutional Court. He didn't say that the right to property was violated by the government's provisions. He said, indeed, that the legislative task arising from an international treaty must be performed by the government, the Parliament, but he did not say that the constitutional right to property would have been violated here or would be violated if future reviews were carried out and that, depending on the state of the person, if it deteriorates, he would obviously be entitled to higher benefits, if it improves, a lower amount of benefits or assistance to the job market. Honourable Congressman, I think you think it's good that those who really need care because they can't sustain themselves with their work, we all think you, too, and I think we can all assume the best thing about each other is that they get the income support that they can't keep themselves from because they can't do the job. But you too obviously saw that, in the past, it was often not a question of real working ability, but of being used as a social tool, especially during the Horn government period, that someone, although capable of working, had been declared unfit, and that he had been pushed into a career that was difficult to break out of it. But now, thank God, the Hungarian economy is in a much better position, it has the opportunity to work for a lot more people. Those who are not able to work, no one wants to force them to work, we have extended the benefits they can receive every year and the benefits they can receive. But now, from 18 percent to 41,6 percent, the number of people with disabilities who can make a living not on a small allowance, but on a higher salary. This system is about getting a higher salary for those who are able to work. We don't want to take anything away from anyone, we just want to help those who can earn wages, earn wages, and don't make ends meet with aid. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-17-208	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, It's 6:25. We've reached the end of the discussion of the questions. Dear Parliament, We will now continue our work with speeches after the agenda. Before our fellow Members leave, who may no longer wait for the meeting, allow me to wish you a blessed holiday, and if we do not meet, a happy new year of success! Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Péter Ágh, Fidesz Group, asked for a speech with the title of respect for the celebrating communities of the county of North Vas. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-12-17-209	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, It is tradition to draw attention to the communities of my constituency that celebrated an anniversary at the end of each year here in the House of the country. In a previous speech, I had already bowed my head to Celldömölk, which held the Jubilee Ceremony of his inauguration in 2019. I trust that a look back over the last four decades has given me the right opportunity to raise the strength to build the city further so that Celldömölk can be a home for many in the future. Along the Répce, Csepregen had a jubilee gala in May before 50 years of music education. Thank you for the past half a century for deepening the love of culture in youth. In June, in Celldömölk, we looked back at the 25 years of the Catholic Elementary School of St. Benedict. In the quarter century behind them, Kemenesalja became a well-known and respected member of his educational life. This is a place where very serious improvements have been made recently. In the middle of June, they remembered the day of foundation and the 20-year anniversary of the village day in Kőszeg, Kőszegfalva. Today, Kőszegfalva continues to cultivate German cultural foundations in a worthy manner. We hope that this will continue to be kept in the future. Today's Uraiújfalu was formed by the unification of two settlements half a century ago. The village unification gave cause for the festival in another settlement, and Vasegerszeg was already eight decades old. Thank you to all who have contributed to being a loving place in Uraiújfalu and Vasegerszeg. The Cultural and Sport Centre became 60 years old. I hope that you will continue to play the role that you have succeeded so far. In 2019 the Vépians strengthened their identity by organising a festival on this occasion for the 10th anniversary of the inauguration. During this decade, the inhabitants of the small town near Szombathely have come a long way, in which government developments have greatly helped them, as have many locations in Vas county. It should also be remembered that the local kindergarten has become 50 years old, which has become the second home for more and more children from generation to generation. Thank the workers for giving them the magic that every child needs for 50 years. In October the Concordia-Friendship Singing Ensemble celebrated its 160th anniversary in Kőszeg. The fact that from 1859 they were always able to convey the love of music to newer generations points to Kőszeg's civilization and community power. In November, the 50-year-old Pedagogist Women's Faculty in Sárvár looked back to the past with a book presentation, exhibition and vocal competition. We trust that the cultural life of Sárvár will continue to be enriched in the future. This month, so during the autumn, Csepregen was also celebrated: the Mazsorett Group has been offering community in the city for 25 years. In Sárvár there was also a festive number attached to the cheerleaders: they held their 25th cheerleader gala towards the end of 2019. In relation to Sárvár, it is important to highlight the Sárvári Bike Association, which can be proud of the 120 years since its founding. This year, 120 trees were planted. Since the establishment of another civil society organisation, the Sárvár and Vídéke Beemaker Association, 95 years have passed, which still looks proudly at their product and seeks to spread its love. [[18.30]] At the end of the year, János Kőszegen Kiss' 75th anniversary of his death was saluted to the martyr soldier. Dear House, Anniversaries can always confirm the feeling of belonging to a given community. I trust that this was the case this year for all of my constituencies in the Jubilee, which at the same time gave the new generation the opportunity to strengthen its attachment to his home, because according to Goethe, the most we can give our children are roots and wings. I believe that's what the North Vas County communities are working on. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-12-17-210	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik Group also applied for a post-the-meet speech:.How long? It's an address. I give you the floor.
u2019-12-17-211	Mr President, Dear House, During the Advent period, it is also customary to hold a kind of reckoning in the House, and we must say that, while the majority of Hungarian families are preparing for the festival, it is a serious problem for many people how to make this celebration worthy not only of the end of the year, but also of the needs of families. And what we can see is that if we look at the price of a simple Christmas shopping or the price of a worthy celebration, then the Hungarian citizens were in a more difficult position than a year ago; and although the government has repeatedly said during today its various inflation prognosis, its values, its tips, that it believes that it is inflation of around 3 per cent, we can see that if we look at only one food price index, so that if the one-time Hungarian person goes into that particular store and fills the basket, what increase he is facing, this has been at least a week, or 7 per cent, since months. We also see that the price of pork is more than 15 percent higher than it was a year ago, that of potatoes with 14.5, that of buffets with more than 8 percent more expensive, and that of sugar with 8 percent more expensive, not to mention the price of salami. These high values come out and the high food price index rise average of more than 7 percent is that the price of poultrymeat, milk and food oil has not increased at all to this extent. However, what the government is saying here in Parliament and the situation of Hungarian families is not factually true. So, overall, Hungarian families have to pay more in stores, and we also see that, in addition, they are charged with a record, world champion, 27 percent VAT; we also see that if they are forced to save their homes, this is no longer supported by the Hungarian state; and we also see that the cafeteria elements that affect them are being dismantled. So what it seems to give in one pocket is Hungary, the other is either taken in full or several times. We also need to see that, while we are working with such inflation data, the housing crisis in Hungary is at least such a problem for those who do not have own property. Over the last four to five years, the price of a flat of average size on a large road has doubled and it is 40 percent more expensive to rent in Budapest than in Vienna. Once again, by comparing the price and availability of the apartments to salaries, Budapest is almost one and a half times more expensive than Vienna. And I could tell you more examples from us to the West. So it's a pretty amazing situation. Therefore, Jobbik will submit to Parliament a future protection package focused on housing, which intends to impact in three segments, if you like, because it is not possible to build public housing apartments that cannot be deferred; secondly, it cannot be postponed to assign housing support to those who are forced to face unduly high rents, because the government is doing nothing on this front; thirdly, the tax-free housing allowance that employers can grant, the housing cafeteria must be returned, and employers should be allowed to be interested in supporting the housing costs of Hungarian workers, Hungarian citizens, since in the long term, it is only possible to imagine that the demographic shift in Hungary will occur in the long term, in order to avoid housing cataclysms. At the time of Advent this year, retrospect is also a custom for all demographic indicators that unfortunately deteriorated in Hungary. The objective of Jobbik and our faction is clearly that Hungary can finally show change and progress in this most important national strategy destiny area. What do you need for that? The violently driven emigration spiral, driven by the government's activities, must be slowed down, housing cataclysms should be avoided, and statistics should not be worked on, but the man behind it must be examined, which is not a bar code, but a real citizen, and should not be favoured from the upper middle class, but the interests of all Hungarians should be taken into account. This does not happen in budget planning, it is not mentioned in the government's accounts. And we have to say that while Jobbik's programme of Our Castle puts a housing concept on the table, the government is indebted to its own vision, has no vision, has no vision for Hungarian young people, so how can Hungarian national strategy issues be resolved? The Jobbik package answers all of this because the Hungarian future cannot be in opposition. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-12-17-212	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik Group has applied for a post- Agenda speech: . The government members and the management of Fidesz not only support but also use poaching as a recreational activity, with pleasure and frequent use of poaching? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2019-12-17-213	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Fellow Members! I'm sorry, but I'm not surprised that I can't wait for a pro-government response, because there isn't one capable, capable person in this room, and I'd like to draw attention to a very serious matter, namely the situation of poaching in intestine. Here, specifically, the members of the government, the family of Lőrinc Mészáros and known fidesz oligarchs have been hunting and poaching for them, I can tell you, for years. The Fidesz-KDNP administration redistributed hunting rights and hunting areas in the previous cycle. They had to do this, on the one hand, because they had an end to the hunting areas and rights previously allocated, but at that time, we had no hope of a positive outcome, but perhaps the more naive hunters were still confident that this would be done with the utmost consideration of professional considerations. Instead, however, the lobbying force practically mauled the whole implementation, and it really became a completely absurd story. Here in Parliament, for example, a group of local hunting companies, who have been professionally, from a wildlife management point of view, had never had a single dispute with the landowners. The late Secretary of State, Bitay, gave me the answer that I imagine, because in this speech I am virtually damaging the landowners, because I am taking in a hunting party, a group that would have given me ten forints less per hectare for the land, so to speak. Then a week passed, when I also spoke in the interest of another, completely unwarranted company, and the answer to that was what I thought, because I did not take into account the wildlife management aspects. Obviously, he could no longer argue with the rate of rent, as in the second instance, the small-scale hunting company promised twice as much for the rights of use of the land as the Hungarian State did. So we've been through some pretty nasty stories, but here the case of the intestinal metropolitan area is out of the question because, specifically, there are several court judgments about the fact that the new company, represented by the family of Lőrinc Mészáros, is practically illegally hunting and hunting in this area. In the absence of time, I have no way to interpret the whole matter in detail, but I have attached the entire dossier to my written question. I have the position of the Government Office of Békés County, the hunting authority, the Government Office of Békés County, the District Office, the Administrative and Labour Court of Szeged in addition to the letter previously addressed to President László Kövér. I know this seems like a wide-ranging case, but in the end, it's all about this case, it's just a different perspective. Then there is also the Békés County Police Department, the Attorney General's Office from Békés County, the District Court, the Gyula Tribunal, the Kúria and the Szeged Administrative and Labour Court. Documents that support their right and, as I have said, I have already sent them to you, attached to my written question. [[18.40]] The answer was quite amazing, virtually meaningless. The responsibility is shifted by the government, while nothing else should be done but to instruct the government's hunting authority to comply with the court's judgment, to enforce the truth, and to restore to hunting law those intestinal hunters who have been hunting for the satisfaction of landowners for decades with maximum respect for wildlife management. They want nothing but this profession, this work to continue under the same fair conditions as they have done in the past. But it doesn't seem to bother government representatives, it doesn't want government members to do justice for them. However, at the last parliamentary meeting of the year, I hope that if they are not appreciated for reply, at least they will be able to put a gift under the Christmas tree of the hunters of Belmegyer to prove to them at least that the Hungarian government is important in complying with and enforcing the law, even if it is against them in this case, against their hunting. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-12-17-214	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Member Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik Group, also spoke after the agenda with the title of the portrait of a politician, Madeleine Moon. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2019-12-17-215	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to miss NATO Parliamentary Assembly terribly. I believe that this organisation plays a major role in building consensus in Europe and building a value-based policy. I have received these words in recent days from Mrs Madeleine Moon, who was president of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly until last week's British elections. You may ask why in the Hungarian Parliament I remember this President's career and activities. The reason for this is simple: Mrs Madeleine Moon was more to me and to all those who were members of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly than a politician, as a simple president. Mrs Madeleine Moon was a phenomenon among us, a special leader whose values, besides her political qualities, were insurmountable, and although I had only eight months to work with her, every time we could meet, it was long conversations and an infinite, pleasant atmosphere that she created for me. He said in one of his last speeches that our nations could have received it, that they could overcome their past differences, that we could continue to develop the binding force that will keep us together in the future. Our nations largely agree on the nature of threats. We must keep our core values as compasses and strongly oppose any attempt to undermine the democratic foundations of our societies and institutions. These words mean much more to me than the fact that as head of an international organisation, someone is trying to give guidance. Ms Madeleine Moon was, by the way, a member of the UK House of Parliament between 2005 and 2019 in the colours of the Labour Party. Since November 2018, he has been Chairman of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. He started his career as a social worker when he finished his university studies. From 1980 to 2002, he worked in the social sphere and with his work he gained the attention that had resulted in him being a member of Parliament by 2005. He was a member of various local social committees between 1999 and 2001 and mayor and councillor of a small settlement in Wales for 13 years. He has been a member of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly since 2010 and has been officials of countless committees until his position as Chairman in 2018. In many conversations with Mrs Madeleine Moon, it was always the impression I felt when I said good-bye that she could be a political portrait to me, and she could be a political role model to me. It is very rare to meet someone in our home or international space with whom we have political ties, for political reasons, yet in every moment we feel that we have met one person, and more than one person. I always told her that I was happy to work in this organization because she doesn't have a leader, she has an angel. He is indeed a great creation, with whom I very much hope we can still meet in international space, and not only as a friend, but as a colleague, as a member of an organization, because believe me, fellow Members, it is very important, even as a politician, that those with whom we work give us something, give us more every day, and in our work, in our everyday work, we can take over all the strength and surplus that we can add to it. I felt that Mrs Madeleine Moon was like this to me and to our country, because she loves Hungary in an extraordinary way. It is no coincidence that he has become a Hungarian fellow Member, who now holds the office of President in Attila Mesterházy during the transitional period, because he loves and respects Hungary in an extraordinary way, and he usually understands our decisions, because for an Englishman, Hungarian history and our difficulties that still affect us today often force us to make decisions that not everyone in the international space understands. On the one hand, I wanted to introduce him to the Hungarian Parliament, and I would like to thank him for the infinite love and support he gave me at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-12-17-216	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Róbert Dudás, Member of the Jobbik Group, asked for a post-meeting address on the importance of developing three- and four-digit roads. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2019-12-17-217	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The rate at which three and four-digit roads are being developed is essential for the countryside. It is extremely important, and especially for small settlements, that they can really get involved in blood circulation, access to improvements and access to them by businesses. In the event that an area is not accessible, developments and businesses will also avoid it. If you look at Hungary's map, you can see that there are parts of the country where unemployment is extremely high and that there are parts of the country where there is a shortage of labour. Today, three- and four-digit trips in Hungary are extremely bad, they are in bad shape, the renovations took place long ago, they are impenetrable, thus keeping the people living there away from further opportunities and opportunities for development. And I have to add, it is closely linked to the fact that in many areas the closure of railways has occurred in recent decades, or at least the suspension of the railway. I also have to mention that over the years, over the decades, road renovation has taken place in several areas, which will move forward the issue I have just asked. At the same time, we are talking about the renovation of the main roads, so that the raw materials delivered and delivered to them are carried through these three-digit and four-digit roads. Allow me to give you a specific example, and I will mention more. One is the construction of Highway 21, which connects Hatvan to Salgótarján. Making it a four-tracker will greatly help the people in the area's potential and life. Soon, however, if the government's plans are to be believed, the renovation of roads 23 and 25 will also begin, and this will be the road connecting the Bátonyterény with Ozd. The roads, those three and four-digit roads, such as 2411, which connect the 23 and 25 roads and which are located between Recsk and Mátraballa, only 13 kilometres long, have been completely destroyed by the renovation of the 21 main road. [[18.50]] He totally ruined it, because these roads weren't designed for this. We haven't talked about the traffic growth that it meant, the houses on the road are cracking, and what's important is that we can't even measure the state of the power lines on the road. In the event that a public utility network fails, it will have a decisive impact on the life of an entire settlement. In the past year, I have sent a letter to several places, including the MP of the Government, and I have asked him to do so. I have tried to draw attention to a number of television, radio interviews and newspapers to make some progress on this issue. Unfortunately, nothing happened. I have made a budget change proposal, and I have done this through a fellow Member of Parliament. Unfortunately, this did not result either, since it was not supported by the pro-government majority. I will continue to do this in the future, probably with a change in that I will ask the MP in the pro-government district to perhaps support and join it in order to make this trip more efficient and to refurbish similar roads. In this connection, I would like to ask everyone, and I would ask for their support, so that improvements of this kind, such as the development of the main roads, continue. At the same time, however, let us not forget the inhabitants of the small settlements, since these improvements cannot make their lives impossible. Rail networks are available, as in many cases it is only a recess. So I would ask that the government examine the relocation of stone transport to the railway for these public investments, so that the roads are not burdened with this, and that it provides a source for the development of these three- and four-digit roads, as this means the future for the people who live there. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-12-17-218	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the first part-session of the spring ordinary session of the Parliament is expected to take place in February. I thank you all year round for your work, all my fellow Members, ethnic advocates, the staff of the Parliamentary Office, and all those who monitor our work, peaceful holidays, and wish you a good rest and a happy new year! [[Interviews from Jobbik's benches, among them: Thank you, but we wish! Thank you, Mr. President. Peaceful, blessed Christmas.]] Thank you very much.
