u2016-11-08-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning, fellow Members. I welcome you all with love. The 18th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and István Ikotity will be taking part in this meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who are monitoring our work today. The pre-meeting speeches will follow. After Paris Marrakesh - but where is the Hungarian government's responsibility? Ms Erzsébet Schmuck, Head of the Group of the LMP, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Madam Group Leader.
u2016-11-08-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Under the auspices of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, the Paris Agreement was adopted on 12 December 2015 to keep the global average temperature rise below 2 degrees Celsius compared to the pre-industrial revolution. If the temperature rise goes beyond this level, then changes in Earth's natural systems can occur that threaten the entire future of mankind. The agreement was welcomed sceptically by many after Paris, since the specific scale and timetable for the reduction had not been agreed. However, what gives rise to some optimism is that within one year of the Paris Conference, two conditions for entry into force were met, according to which at least 55 countries had to deposit their ratification documents and that these countries would be responsible for at least 55% of global emissions. Recently, the two largest issuers, the United States and China, have deposited their own documents as well as the European Union. At the first conference in Marrakesh, which began yesterday, the countries participating in the agreement will decide, inter alia, on the adequacy of national contributions, additional detailed rules and funding mechanisms. There will be a task in Marrakesh, because before Paris, when voluntary contributions were made by national governments, it was virtually enough not to exceed the 3 degrees Celsius average temperature increase in commitments. But this is where we can think, by the way. We see that the world leaders are still unaware that there is no alternative to appropriate restraint in an overloaded environmental system, as UN Secretary General Ban Ki Mun said, there is no Plan B, because there is no Plan B, because there is no Planet beta. Today, in the world, the annual use of raw materials per capita is 10.6 tonnes, and moderate approaches would mean reducing the rate to 4 tonnes, so that our environment is able to recreate the supplies and ecological services needed for our lives. The situation is similar with regard to primary energy consumption. In the spirit of sustainability, global greenhouse gas emissions could not be greater than the capacity of sinks to bind, but now it is twice as large. And while emissions continue to increase, the capacity of the swallows is constantly decreasing. This shows that climate change cannot be managed on its own, isolated from other environmental issues. For example, it is linked to the loss of biodiversity, the shrinking of species and natural habitats. These should be dealt with more and more comprehensively around the world. At the same time, we must also pay attention to the important role of geopolitical factors, economic and competitiveness considerations in the background. What we see is a long-term geopolitical reorganization. For example, the deployment of fossil energy subsidies and the redirection of investments have already started in many places. The results of significant efforts are the reliable and economical use of renewable energy sources, the creation of a circular economy, unfortunately not in Hungary. This will start the transition to a low carbon economy, sustainable energy management. In addition to the economic transition, however, there is a need to address other impacts of climate change, as well as negative environmental impacts, social and political consequences, such as the issue of climate refugees. According to some sources, by 2050, the number of people forced to leave their homes could reach hundreds of millions because of climate change. Hungary was the first of the Member States of the European Union to conclude the internal ratification procedure of the Paris Agreement and deposit its document on it; otherwise, it is not by accident that the government is acting as if everything is okay with us. It is not enough to delude ourselves that the declining domestic emissions from our economic production are sufficient to deal with the issue. Hungary should also be responsible for this cooperation. It's in our best interest. Unfortunately, however, there are a lot of questions: what about the decarbonisation road map, the promotion of the green economy, the improvement of energy efficiency, the adaptation strategy to changing environmental conditions? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We are waiting for answers to all these questions. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-11-08-2	Thank you very much, Madam Group Leader. We will hear the answer from Secretary of State Zsolt Szabó. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-08-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The government, as it has done before, is taking a strong position in the fight against climate change. From the beginning, we supported the adoption of the Paris Agreement, and at the highest level, with the participation of President János Áder, we represented ourselves in the signing of New York on 22 April. Following this, Hungary, as you said, carried out the national ratification of the agreement in the European Union as the first Member State, and on 12 May the Hungarian Parliament adopted the law ratifying the Paris Agreement. The Hungarian instrument of ratification was deposited on 5 October, together with the first EU Member States. Together with ratification, we have undertaken an ambitious reduction of emissions by 2030 with several EU Member States. This reduces greenhouse gas emissions by about 40 percent within the European Union. Hungary is also at the forefront in this area. In 2014, the reduction we made compared to 1990 was already 39 percent, and we are confident that we will be able to make the same reduction in the next period. We are also outstanding in the area of renewable energy, as we are planning to increase by about 14.65 percent in this area by 2020 compared to our ability, economic strength, compared to the 13 percent guidelines. In 2012, we had already exceeded and reached 10 percent, and this was the 2016 target. We hope that this trend can continue in the coming years. 50 percent of quota revenues are spent by the government specifically on reducing greenhouse gas emissions, partly under the green investment scheme, which comes from international quota revenue, and partly under the green financing scheme. The whole system is covered with the warm-up program at home. In addition, we have developed a new support system for renewable energy for almost the first or the first in the European Union. This is the so-called MEDAR system. The EU is currently in agreement with this system and, if everything is optimal, it can enter into force as of January 2017. [[9.10]] This will provide additional resources for renewable energy producing and investing companies, businesses, municipalities. I would like to mention here that in the area of energy efficiency we will spend 750 billion in the next period, partly from European Union and partly from Hungarian sources in the field of territorial operational programme, economic recovery programme and environmental and energy efficiency. Hungary defined its climate protection activities in the first national climate change strategy. Given that the Paris Convention raises new ideas in this area, it is therefore under way and will be referred to Parliament - we hope this year - the so-called second climate change strategy. The government is also active at international level, as in 2015 we committed approximately HUF 1 billion to provide the Green Climate Fund with opportunities for international development. In this connection, at the Paris Climate Conference, we committed an additional HUF 1 billion, so this public money-based bilateral tripartite international agreement will facilitate the emergence and adoption of Hungarian green knowledge and technology at international level. The conference of the Parties to the so-called UN Framework Convention on Climate Change is currently taking place in Morocco, where - thank God we have accepted and ratified the agreement - we are also taking part and we are a key professional element of this discussion. The aim of the Moroccan meeting is to draw up the rules of the Paris Agreement and Hungary has undertaken an active activity in this area. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The Hungarian Government, as I said, is very committed to preventing climate change. In addition to describing a growing career in economic terms, we are constantly making sure that the goals we have undertaken, the goals we have undertaken, are met. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-08-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the Group of the KDNP, spoke before the agenda. Mr. Team Leader, you have the floor, please.
u2016-11-08-5	Mr President, Dear House, Parliament is about to adopt a resolution condemning the persecution of Christians, the genocide in the Middle East and Africa and supporting the persecuted. The question is what is happening there, what does this have to do with us, and why it is primarily about Christian support. What it has to do with us is obvious for two reasons. On the one hand, in terms of self-defense, because we have repeatedly said that the best way to curb migrant flows is to help create decent living conditions, order and peace in the issuing countries. On the other hand, it is clear that events have occurred that the world's public opinion cannot tolerate. What are these? Murderous assassinations. To quote only two, in Tunisia I think of the executed 22 Egyptian Coptic Christians or 147 Christian students killed at the University of Garissa in Kenya. We remember the polls, and in 14 the number of Christians executed because of their faith was 4344, and a year later it increased to 7100. 2,400 churches and other buildings have been destroyed, burned down, living Christian communities driven out of their homeland, and if we look further at the statistics, we see that four out of five Christians persecuted for their faith. So one of the answers to the question of why Christians are Christians is that they are the most vulnerable community, and yet they are close to us, Europeans who grow out of Christian culture, ethnically they may be different but have cultural similarities. There are Islamic countries where deChristianization is announced, expulsion from their country, or extermination. We may also wonder why we are thinking in such remote lands. I have already answered this partly because of the self-defense aspect, and also because of our universal responsibility, since our responsibility is obviously primarily to those who are close to us, but this universal responsibility obliges us to all people. What can we do? The first step, of course, is to reveal reality, and the second is to express our sympathy and provide humanitarian assistance. We should mention here that the Hungarian government has done its duty, as it has also contributed to building schools and hospitals to ensure the right living conditions in the country where these communities have been weakened or persecuted. But we need to move on, because we also need to participate in international assistance. The countries of the world have a responsibility that we cannot miss. Of course, military assistance is the first instrument of assistance, as it is a condition for peace-building. We know that the Hungarian government and the Hungarian army are involved in this action. The second is the various economic aids and, of course, the instruments that we generally call humanitarian aid. For a sentence, it may also be worth paying attention to the need to provide help where there is a persecution of Christians, but we cannot be overlooked by anti-Christian behaviour, although not persecuted, which in many cases can be found in Europe. Consider that Christian symbols are banned in many places because of the sensitivity of Muslims. The Hungarian Parliament therefore has a role to play in adopting such a resolution. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-08-6	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-08-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, Syria, Iraq, Nigeria, North Korea, Somalia, Afghanistan, Sudan, Iran, Pakistan and Eritrea: these are the ten countries where Christian persecution is the largest worldwide. In other words, these top 10 countries, where the greatest danger is those who possess or pray, gather, build churches, go to church. The majority of these countries have Muslim majority, but at the same time they have Communist North Korea, and there is also an otherwise Christian majority country, Nigeria, or at least half a Christian country, Nigeria, but there are organisations here, such as Boko Haram, which do endanger many Christians, entire Christian settlements, but Muslim minorities, whether in Congo, Ethiopia or in the Central African Republic, threaten the existence of non-minor Christians. As I said, in many cases the mere possession of a Bible or a Christian publication may result in severe punishment or death in these cases, even by law. Since the mid - 2,000's, persecution and persecution of Christians have been shown to continue to increase. In practice, this persecution appears in many ways. In many cases, they are expelled, tried to kill, exterminated, in officially announced programs, either in military or state programs. In several Muslim countries, converting from Muslim religion to Christian religion is punished. This will result in the death penalty. [[9.20]] Christian women in certain countries can be humiliated and humiliated unpunished, as opposed to other women and, in some countries, against Christian settlements on a regular basis. Not only is it important for Hungary to take action against the persecution of Christians, to draw attention to it and to call on the international community, but many international organisations have also adopted such documents. I have brought some myself, which have been said by various international organisations. The Council of Europe, therefore, at a European minimum; I quote the resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, calls on all European religious leaders to condemn attacks on Christian communities and other religious groups. But another European forum, the European Parliament, has also long dealt with the Islamic State and the persecution of Christians. The European Parliament has stated that the terrorist organisation Islamic State is committing a serious violation of human rights and calls for its strong condemnation. The European Parliament states that these are crimes against humanity and war crimes. I quote literally the decision of the European Parliament: "The European Parliament expresses its view that persecution, atrocities and international crimes are crimes against war and humanity; it emphasises that the Islamic State is committing genocide against Christians and Jesids and other religious minorities. But not only on the European continent, but also overseas, such decisions have been taken. On the one hand, I would like to quote the U.S. Foreign Minister John Kerry's statement that the Islamic State is responsible for genocide against groups living in areas under its control, including Christians and others. The Daes, i.e. the Islamic State, declare itself genocidal by its ideology and acts, what it says and what it believes and what it does. He is also responsible for crimes against humanity and war against the Islamic State, as well as ethnic cleansings against those groups. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Let me quote the resolution of the United States House of Representatives, which was confirmed by the Senate. The atrocities committed by the Islamic State against Christians, the Jesuits and other religious and ethnic groups in Iraq and Syria constitute crimes against war and humanity and genocide. The U.S. House of Representatives calls on all governments, including the United States government, international organisations, the UN, its Secretary-General's Office, to call these atrocities known as war crimes and genocide. If we go further, I can also quote the decision of the UK House of Commons. The House of Commons in England believes that Christians, Jesidahs and other religious groups in Iraq and Syria are suffering genocide in the hands of Daes - the Islamic State - and call on the British Government to immediately contact the UN Security Council for the prosecution of perpetrators before the International Criminal Court. I can also quote the statement of the Australian House of Representatives, which also declares this systematic murder, hostage taking and action against minorities as genocide. I believe that if the Hungarian Parliament adopts this decision, it will join an international series and will do the minimum that, on the basis of humanity, is the minimum, but it will sum up the content of all these decisions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-08-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. May I have your attention, ladies and gentlemen, because the background noise is getting quite high. And I would also ask everyone to pay attention to what the debate is about, because it is extremely wrong to have people laughing at the viewing picture, while it is about how Christians can be humiliated unpunished, who can be executed. The viewers probably don't understand and don't understand. For a pre-meeting speech from the MSZP Group, millions of people live in Hungary under the minimum living age. Mr Lajos Korózs. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-11-08-9	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, In my statement before the agenda, I would like to talk about three things, on the one hand, poverty, workers' and housing poverty. I am doing this primarily because it is the social work day this week, and now we have the opportunity to remind our fellow Members of this commemoration in our speech before the agenda, because it is already a decade-old tradition to thank those working in the social field for their work. And two and a half weeks ago was the World Day for Combating Poverty, and I have to refer back to that. A report by the OECD, which has seen the light of day, shows that the number of hungry people has doubled. About five years ago, 17.4 percent was measured, and today the number of people who do not get enough food in Hungary exceeds 30 percent. This is very interesting, because next to it was a statement by the Food Bank that more than 23, almost 24 percent of Hungarian society belongs to the poor category. This does not necessarily mean everyday hunger, but it is certain that these people do not have access to the right quality of food. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I would like to draw your attention to the recent publication of another report by the European Commission, according to which 2 million tonnes of food that could otherwise be consumed will be discarded in Hungary every year. I think that the government should find a way to make sure that doesn't happen. I would like to dwell for a few thought on the fact that we see the values that the government displays in its policy in the field of social affairs, which we call reverse redistribution. Dear fellow Members, there are today one and a half million people in Hungary whose monthly income is less than HUF 55,000, and the income gap between the richest and the poorest has now increased nearly thirtyfold. I must note here that workers' poverty has unfortunately increased in recent years. A decade or two ago, we thought that work would protect us from poverty, but not today. It is very interesting and instructive that the unemployment rate among graduates is low, and even the country's lowest, yet the workers' poverty of graduates has doubled in recent years. I would like to mention some statistics to you, Mr. Secretary, because I believe you will answer it. We usually talk side by side, regardless, I'm just saying my piece. I looked at the data of the Central Statistical Office, and I saw that the average income of healthcare workers in Heves County is HUF 92 538. I guess we can figure out that you can't make a living with that kind of money. There are a lot of people working in health care who do physical work, who are responsible for and work in hospitals and clinics. The average income of those doing physical work is HUF 59 381. You don't have to add any explanation to that. But it is not better in the field of education, nor is it better in the field of scientific and technical employment. The net wages of the social sphere in 2010, my fellow Members, exceeded 83 thousand forints, and by the end of last year - also the figures of the HCSO - did not reach 70,000 forints. Therefore, it is no wonder that workers in the social field leave the field, it is no wonder that in Western Hungary there is no longer a social worker, because everyone works in Graz or Vienna. Dear fellow Members, I would like to mention a few things about housing poverty. Last week, I mentioned in an interpellation that according to the National Bank's statement, there are 15,000 families waiting for an auction, about 400,000 families waiting for them to turn off the lights, 200,000 families to turn off the gas, and 130,000 families to turn off the remote heat. I know, Mr. Secretary of State will say how much the number of people with debts has decreased. However, I think it will take government action to have a coherent housing policy in Hungary. It doesn't cost money to restore housing support, it doesn't cost money to restore the normative debt management service. And there are nearly 400,000 vacant homes in Hungary today. They don't cost a naughty penny, just government intent. Thank you so much for listening.
u2016-11-08-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, responds to what has been said on behalf of the Government. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-08-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Mr President, you started with a bombastic announcement, and then you denied your own announcement when you were talking about hunger or hunger, and then you immediately switched to numbers related to healthy meals or daily vitamin requirements. By doing so, you acknowledged that you were mixing numbers that didn't belong, but at least you corrected them at the end of your own sentence. In fact, we do not have to go to the OECD, the Council of Europe or the European Union if we want to see basic social trends. [[9.30]] All you need to do is pay more attention to Brother Csaba, who said he'd never heard as many complaints as he did today, and never saw as much food thrown out into garbage cans as he did today. I believe that Brother Csaba has told a very great truth, and I believe you will soon come to this truth. That is why it was important for the government to make sure that children had regular and healthy meals. That is why we made the diet healthier, against which your fellow Member, sitting next to you, protested yesterday, and therefore increased the resources that you and your fellow Members from the MSZP did not support here in Parliament when we raised the resources available for social catering from HUF 29 billion to HUF 72 billion this year and next year to HUF 74 billion. And this year is the first year, when not only during the year, not only during the summer break, but also children were given free to eat during smaller inter-annual breaks, winter, spring and autumn. This will be continued so that children do not have problems with their daily meals. The Socialist Party has brought up an old-new premise that work is not good against poverty. We believe that working is the best cure for poverty. There is no better social program than giving someone a job if someone can support their family from their work income. They have a very large opportunity to do so. After all, if I look at the average gross earnings, between 2010 and the first months of 2016 it rose from HUF 202 thousand to HUF 258 thousand. In the case of family members, this represents a 33-34 percent increase in wages, which is also a 20 percent increase in real earnings, i.e. in purchasing value increases. Thus, family members, families with children, have increased their purchasing value by one fifth, and they can buy more food or anything else. [[It's grumpy. The president's ringing the bell.]] I also find it odd that you say, even by referring to Eurostat data, that income poverty would increase in Hungary. I looked at it quickly, it was down by 31,000, so it's not true in any way what you said that these numbers would increase. In the social sphere, in 2014, 2015 and 2016 we tried to provide additional benefits. We have introduced a sectoral wage supplement and a sectoral wage supplement, which has now generated an additional income of HUF 28 billion for the social sector. We have often said that these were obviously the first two steps in this wage increase programme, and that further steps will follow. However, it is important to say that a child inspector with a professional education who has been on the field for 37 years now earns HUF 36,000 more than three years ago, a college-educated, career-starting family carer received a gross increase of HUF 43,700 compared to three years ago, and who is now starting his career as a social adviser starts with a salary of HUF 52,000 higher than if someone chose the same career as a career beginer five or six years ago. What we have been able to do with the extra performance of the economy, we have also tried to give it to those in the social sphere. As regards the issue of housing, which you have also mentioned, honourable Member, as you have not been able to combat poverty by giving people jobs, because in your time the number of people who would go to work has decreased by 250 thousand, they have registered as unemployed, so the number of unemployed has increased by 250 thousand, until we have been able to increase the number of workers by 600 thousand, 600 thousand more people can support their families from their work income and not try to spend their lives on aid from one month to another. As a result of both this and the reduction of the rent, today, as you said, you did not dare to say the number - once say it, believe me, it will be nice to know that sometimes you can report positive results - that the amount affected by the debt has halved in Hungary. While you were only able to raise your rent, we were able to guarantee people more money and less costs. People owe half as much as they did a few years before the start of the reduction. But besides, I think if we look at other numbers, how many people have less problems with credit or housing, it's their number and in a few years it's down 414 thousand. The lack of proper heating of the apartment is also a problem for 450 thousand fewer people. But today, the fear of eviction from foreign exchange loans does not threaten people, but they can live in better conditions with much more support. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-08-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr István Németh, Member of the Fidesz Group, spoke before the agenda on the title of the murder of a police officer in Bőny. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-11-08-13	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In connection with the many murders of police officers, we had an interesting but also very worrying relationship with national security issues at yesterday's committee meeting. This is of particular importance in the vote on today's amendment of the basic law. Perhaps the question will also come to light, because all the factions and all the Members here today have to come clean about the reason why the openly illegal migrants and Balliberians on Brussels' side and Jobbik on the paramilitant far-right wish to stop the decision taken in the referendum with 98 percent support from going into the Fundamental Law. Ladies and gentlemen, By the way, the circumstances of the many police murders, the previous police measures, the successful capture operation of TEK, were given detailed information to the committee. Special questions were also answered by President Zsolt Molnár. Still, it's like we weren't on the same committee meeting, and the opposition president is simply making false statements in the press. You're doing this despite the fact that, in addition to the ongoing criminal investigation, the national police commissioner ordered an internal investigation, which will be completed at the end of the week. Therefore, all members of the committee were asked not to comment on the matter until the completion of the internal investigation, nor to jeopardise the success of the investigation and exploration. I am convinced that Zsolt Molnár's Jobbikós and his LMP colleagues could not humiliate what he had to say because they did not attend the meeting yesterday. Dear Parliament, It also became clear at the committee's meeting that Hungary and Europe are facing a serious challenge and risk in migration issues by the international networks funded by György Soros, which lack legal control, and which lie to civilians themselves. Their operation could also mean the weakening of nation states, the emergence of parallel societies, serious risks to public and national security and the threat of terrorism, resulting in the strengthening of paramilitary organisations and extremist policies, which also jeopardise public order, public security and constitutional democracy. European terrorist acts and attacks on the Hungarian police have also proved that the security of Europe and Hungary today is threatened by illegal migration and hand in hand with terrorism, and the resulting strengthening of extremist paramilitant organisations. The Bőnyi police killing was also carried out by an organization of extreme right-wing Hungarist, combat and formal training, the leader of the Hungarian National Frontline, István Győrkös Sr. The leaders of the MNA and their ideological leaders on the Internet linked to the organization, including on bridgefo.hu, have repeatedly stated that they are preparing for a war that they once declared a civil war, on other occasions a racial war, against current political power, against Judaism, against migrants seeking Europe. For this fight, both morally and through their qualifications, they consider themselves the most suitable for the purpose of finally creating a society and a system built up on a Russian model, which they have called the popular socialist in recent years. The lines of thought quoted were clearly made with propaganda steel, for the outside world. A new situation has emerged in Hungary with the killing of a large police force. It can be concluded that the head of the Hungarian National Front Line executed a police officer on duty with a targeted range of rifles. On the other hand, photographed documents have been published that raise the link between extremes and politics. According to press reports, Márton Gyöngyösi, MP of Jobbik, Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, is a journalist of the Hidfo.hu portal, which is already mentioned today, Gábor Vona, and the president of the party is in contact with István Győrkös Jr., the son of the police killer. Because the politicians involved don't seem honest in this case, they cloud and mask [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Therefore, at the next meeting of the National Security Committee, we need to focus on Hungarian far-right paramilitary organisations and their foreign and domestic political relations, as well as on the threat to public order, public security and our democratic legal order based on the Fundamental Law. I'm going to ask for support from the Ministry of the Interior. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[9.40]]
u2016-11-08-14	Ladies and gentlemen, I will pay attention to time, even if my fellow Members do not warn me of this. But I'm asking you to try to think a little more quietly about what's going on. On behalf of the Government, Mr Károly Kontra will respond to the speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-08-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I also express my condolences and condolences to the family of the deceased police officer and to the entire police force. Murder is the worst operation in the last 25 years, and so far, no one of the leaders of the far right-wing organizations has ever attacked a policeman with a gun. The Central Investigator's Attorney General's office has ordered an investigation into the crime of manslaughter at risk of the lives of several people and the crime of firearms abuse. The National Police Commissioner has ordered an internal investigation into what has happened, which is currently underway. In addition to compassion, compassion and indignation, it must be examined that the far-right organization, the Hungarian National Arcline, was the founder of which the perpetrator was connected to a political party and which foreign secret service he is in contact with. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, We can also say that such a relationship threatens the safety of Hungarian people. I can assure the Member that the Hungarian authorities will analyse all the information related to the Hungarian National Arcline and the foreign secret services. The Ministry of Interior will present to the Police Commission the circumstances of the police murder, as well as the paramilitary organizations in Hungary, as well as the danger they pose... [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] - therefore, what danger they pose to the security of the country, the Hungarian people, and also what measures are needed to eliminate this danger, honourable Member. The National Security Committee of the National Assembly received detailed information on the details of the case in the framework of its closed meeting held yesterday at 8 a.m. On the basis of detailed information from the police and services, the Committee has been familiar with the procedures conducted so far by the authorities. The Hungarian authorities protect the country from all extremes. Hungarian people are also protected from extreme right-wing attacks and foreign secret services. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the work of the Hungarian authorities, the Hungarian services, in this very important task. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-08-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to ask my fellow Members once again to take their seats and to listen quietly to the speeches. The basic law, the settlement policy, and what's really behind it! Mr Mirkóczki, Member of the Jobbik Group, spoke before the agenda.
u2016-11-08-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and Gentlemen, I believe that Szilárd Németh's speech was the essence of Fidesz. Of all the things that have happened in the past, its manifestations in relation to what has been said at committee meetings, nothing other than the binding words were true, nor what it asks, nor what it raises, nor, of course, what it describes as a fact. [[István Szilárd Németh: You weren't even there!]] The vice-president forgot to add to the committee meeting that neither Jobbik nor any politician of Jobbik's has been mentioned on behalf of the Counter-Terrorism Centre, the Constitutional Protection Office, any secret service, Russian intelligence, or MNA. So much for that. As for the fundamental law amendment, given that not only are they lying, but their memory is selective enough, it is worth giving a chronological order or summary. We drew attention to immigration many, many years ago, when you didn't even want to hear about it. We have proposed the return of the border guard when you, as you do today, are shutting yourself out of it, and boasting that we are inaugurating 3,500 police officers, and that every small settlement has a police force, but, of course, there was nothing at our borders. And, of course, you tend to forget who proposed the technical barrier to our southern borders, who provided [[Defiance and murmuring in the benches of the governing parties.]] the two-thirds necessary to deploy the defence in the Parliament, and all the many [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] a proposal that you have tried to make as your own by about six months' delay, from whose head of the well it really came. When we proposed a referendum - after the events in Röszke - you collected signatures then, obviously you had a reason why. Then, six months later, completely out of schedule, they started a referendum when it was almost envelopable that it was very risky and that it might not be valid and effective. When we proposed a fundamental amendment, you started a referendum. But, of course, life and events have always proved Jobbik, so you should not attack, but praise that you have such an opposition. [[Defiance and intervention from the benches of the governing parties: Ouch!]] But of course we're not naive either, and we're used to it, and believe me, by the way, that the situation with the settlement bonds is similar. When you had a very strange campaign out of nearly 20 billion, you could say that you overstepped, you saw terrorists where you never were, by the way. Now, when you can see where the terrorists really are, you can't see them and they won't see you. I would also like to stress that when all the security policy experts in the world try to close every loophole, try to strengthen their secret services, so that no jihadists, terrorists or terrorists can arrive from the crisis zone that the Middle East represents, what do you do about it? A few kilometers from the front, in Erbíl, they're opening an office suitable for the settlement bond trade. Well, congratulations are all in order. You might as well send Abu Bakr al-Bagdadi citizenship, come to Hungary, just remember one, pick up 300 thousand euros in the Hungarian state's cash register. [[It's constant noise.]] It is very strange that you are asking for opposition representatives, you are asking for responsibility, and you are asking for complacency. Well, you're the one who's basically anything for money or power. Believe me, ladies and gentlemen, the Hungarian people are not stupid. You can continue any one-sided propaganda, continue and run any kind of lie factory, no one will believe you have no risk in settlement bonds. And if we start from the Pharaon case alone, no one will believe you that you do not pose a risk to Hungary. Believe me, it's not Jobbik who needs to explain. It's you. You will also have to explain to your own voters why the dirty money of terrorists, if any, is more important than the security of the country. You must explain to yourself why you cannot let go of one of Hungary's largest corruption hotbeds for the security of the country. That's why Jobbik doesn't have to explain. We have a very clear position, and by the way, life is going to justify us, just as it has done in recent years on all important security policy issues. And believe me, you're not gonna have to be ashamed of the Jobbik. You're gonna have to be ashamed of yourself. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches. Interjection from the same place: That's right!]]
u2016-11-08-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Tuzson will respond. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-08-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, It's very strange what you're saying here, because it's usually typical of you that when it comes to words, you're very brave, but when it comes to action, you always become weak. [[Adam Mirkóczki intervenes.]] If we're talking about words, it's okay to remember what you just said on Kossuth Radio, not so long ago, a few weeks ago. He said that at any time - I stress: at any time - two thirds will be provided to Fidesz-KDNP on this issue. That's what they said. At any time, the,, means an unconditional aid. Nevertheless, your position is constantly changing. At first, it started to vote unconditionally on this issue and then to lay down conditions and lay down textual conditions. These textual conditions were otherwise fulfilled by political parties in a compromise. [[9.50]] Then there was a text that you agree with, and you agree, word for word. What's the most important thing about amending a Fundamental Law? The fact that the parties agree in a textual manner and with regard to the political purpose of the Fundamental Law. If you don't agree with him, then obviously you shouldn't agree with him in a textual way. But you constantly confuse this question with another question. [[Ádám Mirkóczki: Security policy issue!]] The other issue is clearly the issue of financing the country. There is a long-term goal, there is a goal that can really determine the fate of the country for 100-200 years: who we will live with here in Hungary, and 3 362 224 people have decided on this in Hungary. So many people voted on this issue, creating a new unit for Hungary. This unit is not made up of Fidesz, nor of KDNP and not of Jobbik, but these people stood up for Hungary, and among these people there are also better voters. If you now link this issue to an economic issue, you will abandon your own electorate. [[Noise. Crying from Jobbik's benches.]] Please, you have a few more minutes. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] think about what you want in the next period, think about what is in Hungary's interest. It is a short-term issue, a financing issue, which is under review anyway, because the question of how to finance the country must be kept under constant review. That's what the government does, and the bond issues. [[György Szilágyi: Two missing!]] review all bonds, all forms of financing, depending on the changes in the country's economic potential, create new instruments and constantly review old assets. That is what is going on now, and the government will decide on this issue, which is, of course, part of the settlement policy. But to confuse this short-term economic issue, the short-term question, with what is in the country's best interests, with great irresponsibleness, with great irresponsibleness! I ask you not to do this, do not do it, stand up for the Hungarian people, and finally be braver, decide for Hungary, decide for Hungary and for the Hungarian people! It was 3 million 360,000 people who decided and who made an obligation; it created an obligation not only for the community behind me, but also for the entire Parliament of which you are part. Accordingly, you must also support the issue that you have already supported in words. They say they support this idea in a textual way, they can support the amendment of the Fundamental Law - so please press this button next to it. You have a few minutes to decide this question. You know what you're doing, you know why you're doing this, and you know who you're doing this for or to encourage. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-08-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. [[Noise.]] Now it's 9:53. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats and check that their cards have been properly placed in the voting machines. We will continue our work with the decisions on the agenda. I would ask my fellow Members to focus now on what the vote will be about. [[It's constant, it's loud.]] It follows from the implementation of Act C of 2014 on Hungary's central budget for 2015 T/12284. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/12284/32. T/12284/33. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Committee on Budgets will accept T/12284/32. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 155 votes in favour, 32 against and 4 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12284/34. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 130 votes to 60, with no abstentions. It follows that T/10903 on the implementation of the single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority for the year 2015 will follow. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10903. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 131 votes in favour, 61 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, Next up is the T/12348 on the National Media and Infocommunications Authority's 2017 single budget. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12348. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 131 votes in favour, 61 against and without abstention. Following is T/12371 on the amendment of certain laws relating to tobacco control. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T12371/8. and the summary report by T/12371/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, Jobbik's group proposed to maintain Amendment 2; this is what we first decide to do. Amendment 2 is a proposal from Member István Szávay. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 30 votes in favour, 130 against and 31 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T12371/8. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 135 votes to 31, with 26 abstentions. Dear Parliament, I declare that the rapporteur has initiated in writing to postpone the final vote. I will ask the author if he wishes to explain the reason for his initiative. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to justify it. Dear Parliament, House rules are 51. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act, Parliament decides to postpone the final vote without debate. I ask you, on the initiative of the authors, whether the Honourable Parliament will postpone the T/12371. Final vote of bill No 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] Parliament shall decide to postpone the final vote on the basis of paragraph 1 of this Article without debate. I ask you, on the initiative of the authors, whether the Honourable Parliament will postpone the T/12371. Final vote of bill No 1. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: Parliament postponed the final vote by 188 votes to one, with three abstentions. [[10.00]] The 1997 LXXVIII on the shaping and protection of the built environment follows. T/12365. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The summation of the Legislative Committee's proposal for amendment T/12365/5 and its summary report T/12365/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T12365/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 159 votes in favour, 31 against, with two abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T12365/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 159 votes in favour, 32 against and 1 abstention. Congressman Zsolt Molnár of MSZP indicates that his machine is not working. I'd like the respectable technical staff to take this into account, start your machine. Thank you. Act C of 2003 on electronic communications and XXII of 2013 on the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office follow up. T/11762. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/11762/5 of the Legislative Committee's proposed amendment and T/11762/6 of its summary report. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 1, 2 and 4, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/11762/5. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 155 votes in favour, 42 against and without abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/11762/5. A simple majority of the additional points of the summary amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted further points of the summary amendment by 155 votes to 36, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that T/11762/7. The cardinality provision of the single proposal set out the scope of the provisions requiring a qualified majority. Their adoption shall require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/11762/7. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 155 votes in favour, 41 against and without abstention. We are now deciding on the parts of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/11762/7. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the provisions requiring a simple majority by 155 votes in favour, 38 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, The seventh amendment of Hungary's Fundamental Law will be followed by T/12458. Decision on the proposal for a summary amendment and final vote. T/12458/5 and T/12458/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that two thirds of the Members of Parliament have to vote in favour of this adoption. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/12458/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the qualified majority of the summary amendment by 155 votes in favour, 3 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, pursuant to Article S (2) of the Fundamental Law, the adoption of a proposal to amend the Fundamental Law requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the T/12458/7 on the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law of Hungary. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The adoption of a proposal to amend the Fundamental Law, pursuant to Rule 2 (2), requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the T/12458/7 on the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law of Hungary. A single proposal. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not accept the proposal by 131 votes in favour, 3 against and without abstentions. I'm warning you about the MSZP fraction, because it hasn't been announced in advance... [[MSZP representatives raise a white card of size A4, showing a black helicopter, diagonally drawn through a red stripe.]] Oh, there's more. [[Defiance. Some members of the Jobbik Group will raise a large Molino with the following text in white letters on black:.The traitor who also lets a terrorist in for money!- On the right side of the Molino there is a circular orange logo, in which the name of Fidesz is represented by a typography of Arabic letters; the letter S represents a dollar sign.]] I also warn the Jobbik fraction that an unannounced illustration is being used, and I will do so. Dear Parliament, In view of that... [[General noise.]] - you can sit down because you've lost cause! - in view of the fact that the Parliament has not just adopted the draft amendment, we will decide on the text of the proposal submitted in the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law... [[General noise. Sándor Burány: It's over!]] Fellow Members! Listen to what I'm saying. [[General noise, interruptions.]] I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the final vote was not adopted by this House. Accordingly, we are now deciding on the text submitted, final vote... [[Sándor Burány: No! Possible noise, interruptions. Gábor Vona: Is this law that important?]] My fellow Members, I will remain in line with the script, and the ladies and gentlemen of Congress will listen to what I have to say. Please note that Article S of the Fundamental Law... [[General noise. Dr. László Kács: Are we voting until something passes? Dr. Tamás Bellozó: One more chance! One more chance. MSZP representatives show a red card the size of a card. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Let's try it again. Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: Resign the government! It's a short break.]] Article 2a..................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (General noise. - Dr. László Kács: Are we voting until something passes? Dr. Tamás Harangozó: One more chance! One more chance. - MSZP representatives show a red card the size of a card. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Let's try it again. - Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: The government resign! - It's a short break. [[10.10]] Ladies and gentlemen, We'll get back to work. The Parliament did not accept the final vote. A single electronic administration system follows... There was another page in the script, and I took it from it. [[Dr. István Apáti: The copier is to blame! Intercoms.]] It follows that T/12173 on the amendment of certain laws necessary for the establishment of a single electronic administration system will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/12173/5. T/12173/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/12173/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 136 votes in favour, 32 against and 26 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that T/12173/7. The cardinality provision of the single proposal set out the scope of the provisions requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12173/7. The Single Proposal No 1 requires a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the qualified majority part of the single proposal by 160 votes in favour, 36 against and 2 abstentions. We are now deciding on the parts of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12173/7. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the provisions requiring a simple majority by 136 votes in favour, 32 against and 26 abstentions. Next up is T/12174 on the amendment of certain domestic laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/12174/6, and T/12174/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, Jobbik's group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Ádám Mirkóczki and Gábor Staudt. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 31 votes in favour, 157 against and 6 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/12174/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 155 votes to 31, with 8 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that T/12174/8. The cardinality provision of the single proposal set out the scope of the provisions requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12174/8. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament's provisions requiring a qualified majority of the single proposal by 155 votes in favour, 35 against, 2 accepted with abstentions. We are now deciding on the parts of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12174/8. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the provisions requiring a simple majority by 155 votes in favour, 31 against and 8 abstentions. Next up is the T/12459 on the amendment of Act I of 2004 on Sport. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/12459/8. T/12459/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 2, 3 and 4. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by László Varga and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 63 votes in favour, 129 against and without abstention. Amendment 3 is proposed by László Varga and Ágnes Kunhalmi. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 63 votes in favour, 126 against and without abstention. Amendment 4 is proposed by László Varga and Ágnes Kunhalmi. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 62 votes in favour, 126 against and 1 abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/12459/8. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 151 votes in favour, 4 against and 36 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12459/11. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 152 votes in favour, 2 against, 36 abstentions. The 2012 CCV on the status of military fighters follows. Act XLII of 2015 on the service relationship of professional staff of law enforcement bodies. T/12370 on the amendment of law and other related laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/12370/18. T/12370/19. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[10.20]] I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraphs (4) of paragraph 4 of Article 11 and 12 of the MSZP Group Nos 6, 7 and 8, the group of the LMP Group proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 2 and 3. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 6 is proposed by Bernadett Szél. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it will uphold the motion. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 62 votes in favour, 128 against and without abstentions. Amendment 7 is also proposed by Bernadett Szél. The adoption of this proposal excludes Amendment 11. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 64 votes in favour, 124 against and without abstention. Amendment 11 is proposed by Márta Demeter and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 61 votes in favour, 126 against and 2 abstentions. Amendment 8 is proposed by Bernadett Szél. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 62 votes in favour, 124 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 12 is proposed by Márta Demeter and his associates. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 63 votes in favour, 125 against and without abstention. Amendment 2 is proposed by Adam Mirkóczki. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 31 votes in favour, 125 against and 32 abstentions. Amendment 3 is also the motion of Member Adam Mirkóczki. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 61 votes in favour, 124 against and 3 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 2 of the Fidesz Group is the T/12370/18. A separate vote was initiated on points 4, 6, 7, 8, 16, 17, 19 and 23. In view of the context, we will decide on these with a decision, and then we will decide on the further points of the summarised amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts points 4, 6, 7, 8, 16, 17, 19 and 23 of the summarised amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not accept the proposed amendments by 56 votes in favour, 124 against and 6 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T12370/18. The additional points of the proposed amendment are set out in the table below. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted further points of the summary amendment by 149 votes to 1, with 38 abstentions. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that Parliament has not just adopted all the points of the summarised amendment proposal, in the final vote we will decide on the text of the bill, as amended by the agreed points of the summarised amendment. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12370. Changed bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I'm gonna say the limit. The Parliament adopted the amended bill by 150 votes in favour, 1 against and 37 abstentions. H/11348 on the Memorial Day of Hungarian Marines and Hungarian Marines who died heroically. Decision on the proposal for a summary amendment to the decision and the final vote. The legislative committee's proposal for a summary amendment H/11348/7. H/11348./8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts H/11348/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment with 191 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts H/11348/9. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 190 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, We now decide on the inclusion of a series of proposals. I would like to remind you that yesterday, the Parliament has already held a hearing on these matters. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles by our colleagues, Mr Nándor Gúr and Mr Lajos Korózs, on the facilitation of the gender pay gap H/11718. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not take the proposal for a resolution into consideration by 66 votes in favour, 122 against and without abstention. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles by Bernadett Szél, our fellow Member of the LMP, on the title of the amendment of certain laws to address the serious shortage of labour, T/11610. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the bill with 61 votes in favour, 127 votes against and no abstentions. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles entitled T/11321, T/11321, by Sallai R. Benedek, our LMP colleague, to amend certain laws to protect urban public parks and urban green areas. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the bill with 62 votes in favour, 127 votes against and no abstentions. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles by Dóra Dúró, our fellow Member and fellow Members of Parliament, Members of the Government and State Secretarys of Parliament, and, by tightening the procedure for the declaration of assets, the title of increasing the transparency of their assets, T/12465. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the bill with 66 votes in favour, 123 votes against and no abstentions. [[10.30]] Ladies and gentlemen, That concludes the votes. Now it's a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break. Some Members leave the Chamber. It's constant noise.]] I would ask my fellow Members, who must leave the Chamber now in order to carry out their duties, to do so as soon as possible and as quietly as possible so that we can continue our work. [[It's a short break.]] Ladies and gentlemen, It follows from the 2015 CXLIII on public procurement. General debate on the amendment of law and of certain related laws until closure. Government referral T/12738. Number 2 is available on the IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. [[It's constant noise.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking those who have to leave the meeting room now to do that, and I'm asking you to have all the conversations, preferably outside the meeting room. First, I give the floor to Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, rapporteur on the agenda, in a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-11-08-21	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Government, I propose to amend the Public Procurement Act, including with regard to the amendment of the related laws, and subsequently with regard to the necessary transfer of government regulations. Dear Parliament, As you know, Hungary was the first member of the European Union to implement, transpose the Public Procurement Directive, which consists of three parts and is mandatory for all EU Member States from 2017. The aim of the amendment is to conclude the dialogue and to summarise the round table of public procurement that the Hungarian government has conducted since spring 2016 with the social organisations competent in public procurement in order to learn the lessons of the last year's application of the law. Since May 2016, with the involvement of some 80 social partners and organisations, the government has summarized the lessons learned from the use and application of the Public Procurement Act over the past year. This highlights the social partners involved in the use of public funds, such as business representatives, employers' representatives, chambers, local authorities and other social organisations, as well as those who provide European Union funds, or entrepreneurial representatives who use EU funds. There were four rounds of discussions involving social and civil society organisations. In addition, discussions were held with the Court of Auditors, the Economic Competition Authority and other bodies and departments for the use and control of public funds. Of course, we have also taken into account the positions and experiences of the various wallets in the preparation of legislation, and we have synthesized them at the meeting of the Administrative Secretary of State and the Strategic Cabinet, and we have presented the Government's proposal to the Honourable Parliament for discussion and hopeful support. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, As is known, the use of public and public resources in Hungary takes place within the limits laid down in the Public Procurement Act and the Public Procurement System. Firstly, I would like to emphasise to everyone involved in the debate or following the debate that the Public Procurement Directive, which defines the system of public spending in the European Union, applies uniformly not only to aid provided by the European Union but also to domestic resources. I would like to put an end to the misunderstanding and uncertainty that the use of domestic resources is possible to develop legislation other than the Public Procurement Directive or, in substance, legislation other than the Public Procurement Directive. The scope of legislating and Hungarian legislation is determined by the European Union's public procurement directive. When Hungary joined the European Union in 2004, it decided, for example, to exercise its powers together in public procurement matters as regards the rules and regulation of the use of public funds. So Hungary, the Hungarian legislature, can only exercise joint powers; the directive sets out the framework that Hungarian legislation can decide. I wanted to underline this with emphasis, as there have been a number of proposals on the part of entrepreneurial interest representatives, construction, social representation, local authorities during social consultation, how to protect the Hungarian industry, how to protect the interests of Hungarian economic operators. Here, I note only in parentheses, and I recommend to all my fellow Members the study of the Hungarian National Bank that tried to process the path of EU funding. It is quite clear that 30 percent of the EU funds allocated to Hungary will be returned to the European Union immediately and for the first time, as a significant proportion of EU funds will be imported, and supported companies will use the EU's resources to purchase equipment provided by foreign machinery manufacturers. This practically means that the EU funds allocated to Hungary support, for example, the large German industrial enterprises. I note this only because the Public Procurement Act is not a suitable instrument or only a partly suitable tool for applying domestic market protection criteria and we are trying to ensure equal access opportunities for Hungarian entrepreneurs to public funds. The Hungarian economic structure does not make it easy to use public funds beyond EU legislation, as what is the Hungarian state, what is the interest of Hungarian legislation and what is the public interest in Hungary? The legitimate, fair, transparent and reasonable use of available public resources, so that the Hungarian state's spending of money helps, strengthens and supports the Hungarian economy. [[10.40]] I think that there must be agreement between all my fellow Members on this, but how this can be done is an important and not easy intellectual task, partly because of what I have already pointed out, that the European Union specifically determines the scope of the Hungarian government's movement and defines the scope of legislation, the Hungarian legislation, and the structure of the Hungarian economy also determines the possibility of Hungarian economic interest. The opposing political opponents, opposing political interests, often call on us to make sure that, when public funds are committed, we are committed to putting Hungarian economic operators in a legal and competitive position. The question is whether there are such characters. If you look at the current structure of the Hungarian construction industry, you can see precisely that still today, foreign-owned construction companies that run in public procurement can be a majority in certain areas. So by the time the Public Procurement Act, Hungary's European Union resources and the Hungarian economic recovery brought significant resources to the economy, the structure of the Hungarian economy was transformed by the time there were significant foreign interests in Hungary. So not only with the support, but also with the implementation of the projects, the money that we use for development comes out of the country. Once again, the Public Procurement Act is only capable of compensating this process within the framework set by the European Union. Here, the Parliament has made the biggest breakthrough, and I would like to give a positive assessment and emphasis to this when it decided in the new public procurement regulation that not only the price counts for a tender for public procurement among the evaluation criteria, but also other aspects of social importance should be taken into account. For example, the proportion and number of those who are employed by the winner of the tender for public procurement or the design of the best bid should also take into account the type of employment they increase. Strengthening local employment, employment of multiple disadvantaged people, employment of disabled people, for example, is all a more favourable consideration. Just as environmental burden and environmental aspects can be taken into account in the assessment of a procurement, a tender. Overall, the socially and economically most advantageous offer, which is not necessarily the cheapest, must be taken into account by the bidder. This was the most important decision in principle for Parliament, and I believe that it has passed the test in the last year and has stood its ground. As a result of recent social consultations, it is safe to say that public procurement procedures should be simplified, accelerated and the conditions for spending public money should be tightened. Simplification and acceleration is a legitimate expectation for those who are public money users, such as municipal authorities and state-supported organisations. And acceleration is obviously a legitimate expectation for those who wish to obtain these resources more quickly under simpler rules and to influence the realization of investments substantially by carrying out practical, fast, efficient and legal implementation. I would like to stress that the implementation of an investment in Hungary, taking into account the planning and preparation period, may take up to 300-400 days, but there are some averages, such as road construction, when it takes six years in Hungary from the first thought of planning to the construction of a major road investment. Obviously, this cannot be in the State's best interests, since the delay in time also increases investment and, where appropriate, can be at the expense of quality. So the Public Procurement Act can be an important tool, if not the only and best instrument to support Hungarian national economic aspects, to simplify, speed up investment and tighten up the use of public money. I would like to tell you what kind of criticisms have been made in the past with reference to the Public Procurement Act. We hear it regularly here in Parliament, we read it in the opposition press, and there are also voters who say that the corruption index has deteriorated in Hungary, the corruption indicator, Hungary's international classification in corruption rankings has changed significantly, and one evidence of how public procurement procedures are conducted in Hungary, how we spend public money. As a typical example, some cases are mentioned. This is the case, for example, in a single tender procedure where there is one candidate for the tender and the public tender applicant is forced to announce that one applicant. That this is the result of the bad sign or the market cartel, it's hard to tell. Under the current rules of the European Union, where there is one candidate, it is not competition and it does not constitute genuine public procurement. Similarly, the proportion of procedures without notice is problematic - says those who refer to corruption in Hungary. Not only the proportion of negotiated procedures without a single tenderer, but also the proportion of negotiated procedures without a notice, or the proportion of procedures without a notice, are also called on us. This is usually listed as evidence, who may be more intellectually demanding and try to tell us where this particular corruption is, then they refer to it regularly. I would like to tell you that I have been distracted, so I have asked the European Commission for international averages. In Hungary, the proportion of single-offer procedures is 36 percent of the 28 Member States of the European Union. This means that there is one tenderer for each third procurement procedure. This is 43 per cent in Poland, 36 per cent in Romania, 39 per cent in Slovenia, 32 per cent in Slovakia, 40 per cent in Cyprus, 32 per cent in Latvia, 28 per cent in Lithuania, 27 per cent in Bulgaria, 33 per cent in the Czech Republic. So I would like to draw attention to the fact that this is not a domestic problem, but it is obvious that it is a problem for countries with socio-economic transformation. Thus, the claim that the single-offering procedures in Hungary are proof that the corruption situation has deteriorated would be more corruption, because the proportion of single-offering procedures is exactly the same, and in some respects more favourable than in, say, Poland or other EU Member States. Rather, I believe that the economic structure is the reason for this. What I am thinking is that in Hungary, in the case of large public procurement procedures, such as deep construction or high construction, there are foreign groups who are obviously in agreement with each other and which are putting them at a competitive disadvantage or even crowding out small or medium-sized Hungarian companies who are trying to do so in this area. I think that this is clear documentation. The other issue is the negotiated procedure without notice. It is always one of the criticisms of the European Commission that there are many negotiated procedures in Hungary without notice. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this has been bothering me, and I have looked at the average of the European Union. Indeed, there are countries with 3 percent, 6 percent, 8-10 percent. We have 13 percent of the negotiated procedure without notice, which is obviously necessary in certain cases, since in the event of a disaster, in the case of police purchases, in the case of a military emergency, in the case of a security emergency, in the case of a medical emergency, there is no need to use such a device. This is 19 percent in the Czech Republic, 11 percent in Spain, 10 percent in Latvia, 10 percent in Lithuania, 12 percent in Romania, 19 percent in Slovenia, 15 percent in Slovakia and 13 percent in Hungary. I would also like to point out that it is clear that the specific nature of this European Union region, which joined in 2004, is obviously also related to the economic structure, is that the same trends are emerging in these countries, in this group of countries. Both data are a clear rebuttal of the attempt to link these trends with corruption in Hungary. At the same time, I would like to give a brief description of what we are planning to do with the changes and the scope of the specific regulation. First of all, I would like to tell you that over a million HUF some kind of request, some kind of competition in Hungary will be mandatory after the amendment of the Public Procurement Act. That's not true today. There's an amount today that doesn't require any procedure. I think that those who use public money may, of course, be exempt from this, the executive authority may make such a decision, but those who use public money must ask for some kind of offer at a threshold of one million forints. Just as a person manages his own household by trying to compete for relatively low expenditure compared to the household's total budget, or by how to renovate his house or use certain services. So I think that the care of a good host requires, directly from all the players, municipalities and the state in the Hungarian state, that he spends almost any amount of money, at least three offers, so that he can start by asking for at least three offers in order to see that the supplier he prefers - because there is such a obvious - has made a competitive or non-competitive offer, i.e. a domestic supplier with whom he has long-term cooperation. [[10.50]] I think that it is a general thing for public money to be used, that above 1 million forints - which is a symbolic border and essentially all the money spent - everyone must make sure which is the best offer in order to ensure the care of a good farmer. The different methods of procedure start from HUF 1 million, depending on what amount will be used. This is a significant change. Of course, they will say that this will result in bureaucracy, since it will slow down procedures. And I think that anyone who uses public money has an interest in the cleanliness of the procedure and in the use of public money the principle of conscientiously pursuing the best procedure requires this procedure. It is an important requirement for public procurement organisations, who issue public procurement on the contracting side, to ensure that entrepreneurs perform in a good quality, so that the criteria of good quality, good prices and economy are met after having asked for three bids. I would also like to say that we are introducing new public procurement thresholds above HUF 1 million. There'll probably be a debate on that. In 2006 there was the final setting of the public procurement threshold, ten years have passed since 2006, and in Hungary the value-for-value conditions have changed substantially. I'd like to tell you that we've looked at the international comparison. Today, Hungary is among the countries with low procurement thresholds for public procurement thresholds. The current change places Hungary in the middle zone, in the middle field. The most striking change from this, which will obviously be called to account for us, is that in the non-advertising procurement procedure, where five offers will have to be requested, the threshold will be HUF 300 million. Anyone who moves in a local government world and negotiates with local government interest associations has obviously heard the need to raise the threshold constantly. This is a public procurement procedure, so make no mistake, it's just that the contracting authority has to ask for tenders. We introduce this on the basis of an Austrian model, with a border of HUF 307 million and a border of HUF 300 million in Hungary. Five offers should be requested, if possible, and this should be constantly changed, so it cannot be the same circle. Here we will provide a great deal of publicity and a great deal of insight into the offers requested. This is a public procurement procedure, which will start with a call for proposals rather than a public procurement call. This is a substantial change that I believe will be important for local entrepreneurs and also for local authorities, because it will simplify, speed up the procedure and give them the opportunity to use public money economically. We introduce this rule entirely on the basis of an Austrian model, and we strive to implement Austrian legislation in Hungary. Furthermore, when setting the public procurement thresholds, we have taken into account the aspects of the social organisations involved in the debate on the round table of public procurement when raising and setting the threshold for services or the threshold for investments. I would also like to say what action we will take in the public interest. The establishment of e-procurement will start in December 2016 and will be completed in two stages, summer 2017 and end of 2017. This means that our aim is to ensure that the entire Hungarian public procurement system is electronic in one year, not only for the submission of public tenders, but also for the follow-up of tenders. This will significantly increase transparency and transparency. How does this amendment to the Public Procurement Act affect businesses at the moment? Firstly, it wants to protect the interests of contracting authorities by excluding those who abuse the trust of the contracting authority from public procurement from performing in good quality and not at the price assumed. A new amendment to the public procurement law creates a legal institution, which refers to the fact that anyone who abuses the trust of the contracting authority, does not perform in good quality or does not perform at the promised undertaking price, may be excluded from all Hungarian public procurement for 90 days during the procurement procedure by the various organisations and authorities. We would like to reduce the tendency to win in public procurement and then to continue to expand the conditions and scope of manoeuvre. There are several instruments for this, such as a government decree, in which we limit the percentage of additional work to 30%, to which we provide additional state aid, and this must also be subject to a special procedure. In Hungary, where the development cycle 2007-2013 has been completed and the new development cycle is beginning, there are important lessons to be learned from the implementation of investment. One of these lessons is that the successful tenderer is obviously trying to expand its margin of manoeuvre on the basis of the extension of the investment or the increase in costs, and is constantly trying to enforce the additional costs. There's a limit to that. One of these limits is that the contracting authority may apply to public procurement bodies and may request that this tenderer be excluded for 90 days because he has abused confidence, performed in a poor quality and at an inadequate price. This is an extremely important measure for the next period. On the other hand, we want to simplify the administrative burden on businesses, we want the public procurement procedure to be faster and simpler, so the thresholds, the conditions for advertising and the conditions for performance will also change substantially. The invitation procedure of HUF 300 million will be a significant change, because it will benefit the local entrepreneurial sector, small and medium-sized enterprises, in our view and opinion. For the sake of real competition, we will establish a new institutional system. A very big question is what happens when a contracting authority receives only one tender for a procurement procedure. Firstly, the legal background of the public procurement law is that the contracting authority may decide that, if a tender is received and makes this clear in advance when the public procurement procedure is launched, it does not have to accept this one offer but can invalidate the public procurement. Today, this is not the case; today there is a possibility to enforce public procurement in the absence of collateral. But in the case of one contracting authority, the proposer of public procurement may use a procedure that, if there is one contracting authority, it will launch a new procedure. In order to ensure that this is transparent, the government takes the right to require contracting authorities to do so. Thus, the public contracting authority may require the government to use this method of procedure, and the government shall grant itself a right that if a person has not used the mandatory procedure, an offer is received, the public body wants to accept it, then the government has the opportunity, by means of a ministerial decision, to prevent the acceptance of a tender and to invalidate the procurement procedure. I believe that this is an appropriate guarantee to reduce single offer procedures. But there should be no misunderstanding, since there are economic processes that the state can only partially influence, there are areas and markets where monopolies or cartels exist, and it is not just the government's responsibility to reduce them. However, the instrument system will be significantly expanded and will be significantly strengthened in the next period. I have already talked about publication, electronic publicity, about accessibility. With regard to the public procurement law, I would also like to say to you that we will also make a substantive change to the appeal system, not only in terms of the composition of the various forums, but also in terms of the rights of the various forums, and also in terms of the possibility of a review if a loser of a public procurement procedure asks for redress. We will redefine, clarify, and define the scope and steps that will be possible in this case. I would like to propose to the Honourable Parliament that it should take into account the comments made at the round table for public procurement, which have been formulated by business representatives, and that it is in the interests of the Hungarian State that the conditions relating to the performance of the contract should be significantly tightened. We are trying to force entrepreneurs to try to make investments in their tender, in the quality and price promised in the tender. And, of course, we agree with those who are in any way demanding an increase in transparency in the procurement procedure, so the number of extraordinary procedures without notice will be substantially limited and significantly reduced. I would like to warn you that there will be substantial changes in the nullity of the contract, which are also intended to protect the interests of the contracting authority. These are the principles and practical aspects on the basis of which we initiate amendments to the law on public procurement at the level of law and government regulations. I believe that your decision was successful and successful a year ago, and that the Hungarian public procurement system has improved substantially. We are now asking for subsidies to enable us to transpose the experience of the last year, and we should also be able to enforce the European Commission's comments so that the use of public money in Hungary is even more in the public interest. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-08-22	Thank you very much, Minister. The main speaker's speeches will now take place within a 15-15-minute time frame. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Dénes Galambos. I give you the floor, Congressman. [[11.00]]
u2016-11-08-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, The 2015 CXLIII on public procurement in front of us. Act T/12738 amending Act T/12738 and certain related laws I would like to stop right there for a moment; obviously I will have sentences which are identical to those of Minister János Lázár's expozee - three points can be summarised. The Public Procurement Act is tightened in some areas; the second is that the public procurement procedure will become simpler; the third scenario is that the evaluation will be faster. The amendment of the law is not the result of a sudden idea, as the Minister indicated in his exposé. Since March this year there have been discussions with nearly 80 relevant social and professional organisations. During the consultations, several feedback was received, mainly concerning the lack of sharpness of competition and, as a result, there are often only one bidder. The aim of this proposal is to make as many tenderers as possible and even to render the procedure invalid if there are too few applicants. The current draft law is also preceded by the fact that the 2015 CXLIII. By transposing the new EU public procurement directives adopted in 2014, Act No 1 significantly renewed domestic public procurement rules. In addition to drawing on the practical experience of one year since the entry into force of the Public Procurement Act, this bill introduces a significant tightening of public funds both on the contracting and on the contracting side. Dear House, On the basis of the above, the draft law must have no other purpose than the introduction of procedural solutions to facilitate, accelerate and simplify the conduct of public procurement procedures. Simplification and acceleration will also contribute to a more effective implementation of EU-funded projects. Another important objective of the amendment to the Public Procurement Act is to address the problem of the European Commission's continued emphasis on the use of EU funds and the low level of competition. Allow me to highlight some of the important measures that serve the above objectives. In order to facilitate substantial competition, a new rule is established under which the procurement procedure for which at least three tenders have not been submitted has to be declared ineffective. By introducing the cause of inefficiencies on the subject, we wish to reflect on the criticism of the European Commission that there is too high the number of single-offer procurement procedures. The bill thus reinforces the requirement for fair and verifiable public finance management by ensuring the selection of the contracting partner based on economic considerations by specific rules below the public procurement thresholds. We would also like to reduce the high proportion of non-competitive negotiated procedures without notice. Therefore, the law will require the Public Procurement Authority to take a detailed reasoned decision in the event of any negotiated procedure without notice, on the basis of which the legal basis for the negotiated procedure can be clearly established. The bill also lays down strict rules for information on transparency. A more flexible procedural framework is provided for contracting authorities to make it possible for them to give up amending notices until the end of the original time limit for tender or participation, which, contrary to the previous one, do not have to appear. The draft makes it clear that contracting authorities are obliged to set the estimated value, subject matter and quantity of public procurement on a partial basis in the event of a partial offer. The amendment will simplify the rules for the minimum value of procurement, while at the same time making procurement procedures more transparent and increasing competition. The amendment reduces the threshold for supply and service orders from HUF 18 million to HUF 15 million, above which public procurement must be publicised, thus increasing the number of public procurements opened for public competition. The amendment only maintains the obligation to carry out procurement, which is not publicly announced, by direct invitation, for works. This type of procedure can be applied up to a threshold of HUF 300 million in the future. In order to ensure transparency between the public and procurement, the proposal also provides that the contracting authority is to publish publicly on its website and in the procurement database the call for competition, the name of the procurement documents and the names of the operators invited to tender and the breakdown report. The proposal, as Minister pointed out - I would also like to refer it back to its expozee - raises the public procurement thresholds from HUF 8 million to HUF 15 million when ordering supplies and services, from HUF 15 million to HUF 25 million for works and from HUF 25 million to HUF 30 million for service concessions. However, contracting authorities should, as far as possible, ensure that three tenders are sought and that they will be required to provide information on their procurement. The Minister for Public Procurement shall be entitled to verify procurement below the procurement threshold as specified in the separate legislation. At the same time, the amendment also provides for the request of three proposals below the thresholds. According to the relevant delegation provision, the Government may lay down more detailed requirements for the conclusion of contracts of contracting entities below the national threshold and the contracting authorities must inform the Minister responsible for public procurement of their procurement. The proposal also reduces the public procurement obligation of the supported economic operator. On the one hand, it is easier to increase the amount of aid resulting in a public procurement obligation from 25 to 40 million forints, on the other hand, to increase the scope of the legal exceptions and, in addition to the exceptions provided for in the law, to allow the government to exempt from the obligation of public procurement in a specific decision. The provision to involve an accredited public procurement consultant responsible for the drawing up of tenders and participation reports in the case of higher-value purchases serves to improve the professional quality of tenders. In addition to the above, the amendment of the Public Procurement Act seeks to strengthen the responsibilities of the undertakings awarded the public procurement contract and, by introducing a new right of exclusion, penalises tenderers who have committed an infringement in the course of performance. In practice, there are many problems with the system of direct payments for subcontractors, and therefore the draft law removes this. Instead, the proposal introduces a two-stage payment scheme, which previously used to be used by market participants, only for works. The draft also repeals the requirement that the successful tenderer may not engage a subcontractors in the performance of the contract by more than 50 per cent. The proposal also clarifies certain issues relating to the nullity of the contract in the case of a public procurement infringement. Any tenderer participating in a public procurement procedure may sue for the nullity of a contract due to a public procurement infringement only if it demonstrates its direct legal interest in the nullity of the contract. Dear House, In addition to the main principles outlined above and the presentation of practical application, I would like to ask you to present in the general debate opinions that wish to increase the fundamental thesis of the bill, to support the general debate of the bill with your comments and to support it. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-08-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Csaba Tóth. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-11-08-25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, In a well-functioning economy, public procurement is very important, as the law defines how to apply for work or service applicants. The domestic legal environment for public procurement is basically in line with EU directives, but there have been serious problems with the application of law in recent years. The partnership agreement with the European Commission indicated that Hungary does not meet the requirements for the functioning of public procurement defined as a prerequisite for the use of EU funds, and measures should therefore be taken to ensure that the public procurement system functions properly. [[11.10]] One of the conditions for the adoption of the new operational programmes in Brussels was the renewal of public procurement rules. Parliament adopted the new Public Procurement Act last year, which was hoped to make the procedures quicker, simpler and more legal. Now, however, the government would make a significant amendment to the public procurement rules that entered into force a year ago. However, it is worth paying attention to Transparency International Hungary's opinion on this, that the proposed bill can make it very easy for public funds to be inaccessible to buddy pockets. The problem is that the government would do this in the spirit of tightening up the use of public funds and boosting public procurement competition, says Transparency's communication. Without real social coordination, the legislative proposal that has been put before Parliament will not help to increase competition, will not help more proposals to come to calls or to increase the number of winners and thus make public procurement more effective. Corruption risks in Hungary and in the management and use of EU funds are caused by public procurement regulation itself and by insufficient implementation of weak rules. Public procurement procedures that formally comply with the rules are also not free from corruption. Let us now look at concrete comments on some of the points in the proposed legislation. According to paragraph 1 of the general statement of reasons, the purpose of this bill is to introduce a significant tightening of public funds both on the contracting authorities' and on the bidders' side. However, with this amendment, these objectives will not be fully achieved - it is expected. The bill is 2. The provisions of the Act are intended to regulate purchases of a value of HUF 1 million but below the national thresholds in such a way that the provisions of the Law are applied only in so far as the law's implementing regulation requires. However, in my view, the Kbt is highly controversial in this new paragraph. its inclusion in its provisions on the scope of persons and property, given that it is not public procurement, subject to the thresholds. The change in regulation is certainly justified, but otherwise there may be contradictions within the Kbt, which cannot be resolved by a lower level of legislation, the implementing regulation. Such small-value purchases should be governed by a separate law separate from Kbt. It is important to note that, without knowing the planned implementing regulation, the fact that contracting authorities themselves will also have a serious additional burden of notifying their purchases of HUF 1 and HUF 15 million in the case of works with appropriate data. However, the proposal also states that, in certain aspects of these procurements, contracting authorities should apply Kbt, which will impose a much greater burden on contracting entities than previously on their purchases of HUF 1 and 8 for works of HUF 15 million, which cannot in any case be the objective. Article 3 In the case of the aided economic operators, the aid amount for the public procurement obligation will be increased from 25 million to 40 million, while the scope of the legal exceptions will be extended and it will also be possible for the government to grant exemptions from the public procurement obligation in its decision. However, it is not clear in which cases the government may grant an exemption. This can easily result in companies seeking not the cheapest use of public funds, but rather the government's favor. Article 15 is replaced by the following: In paragraph 2, further information is requested from the tenderer on the grounds that this will increase the transparency of public procurement. However, this provision will unduly extend the scope of the tasks of the contracting authorities. The summing up to be included in the public procurement database includes an indication of the organisation providing the capacity and the suitability requirement for use. On the other hand, contracting authorities should slowly create a new job position to manage uploading to the system, as the number and time needed for such tasks have now increased significantly. That's 50. The amendment of Section 2 to the provision of the service terminates the 50 per cent of the contractor's own performance requirement. Since there is no justification, there is a right to ask why the 50 per cent rule is abolished only in the case of services. Overall, it can be concluded that the new provisions of the legislative amendment proposal will create a number of additional burdens for contracting authorities. However, it does not provide any answers to a number of open questions. For example, the issues of sub-contracting payments, the advance, VAT problems, assignment and the settlement of ancillary obligations in the main and sub-contracting context remain open. After the new Kbt came into force only a year ago. So even the case law based on it didn't have a chance to develop. This current amendment to the law will result in the unpredictability of public procurement for both contracting authorities and tenderers. Based on what has been said, the MSZP fraction cannot support the bill in its present form. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2016-11-08-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Imre Vejkey. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-11-08-27	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As you know, procurement by means of public procurement is becoming increasingly important for the national economy, and procurement procedures also play a prominent role in the use of EU funds. Ladies and Gentlemen, The 2015 CXLIII of this House. By transposing the new EU public procurement directives adopted in 2014, law significantly renewed the domestic procurement procedure, including detailed rules on public procurement procedures, as well as the legal environment for public procurement and the institutional system for public procurement. The new Kbt. In this way, it has contributed, on the one hand, to the principles of competition purity, transparency and equal treatment, not only in the process of contracting, but also in the whole stage of performance of the contract, and, on the other hand, to the achievement of socially and economically beneficial public procurement, and, on the other hand, to the wider use of EU funding. Ladies and Gentlemen, The present bill will deduct Kbt. since its entry into force, the practical experience of one year has passed, introducing a significant tightening of public funds both on the contracting authorities' and on the contracting side. This bill introduces measures to facilitate practical application on the basis of a wide range of feedback from public procurement actors, which include provisions aimed at further speeding up and simplifying public procurement procedures, while clarifying individual provisions. The main aim of the bill is to further enhance the requirements for fair and verifiable public finance management and to further strengthen competition in public procurement. Ladies and Gentlemen, Let us now look at what are the particularly important amendments from a practical point of view by the bill. I would like to mention first of all the reform of the national procedural system within the framework of the amendment of the rules on public procurement procedures. The amendment reduces the threshold from HUF 18 million to HUF 15 million in the case of supply and ordering services. Public procurement above this threshold shall be publicised by the publication of summary information. At the same time, it is designed to simplify the fact that the amendment only allows works to be carried out by means of a direct call for tenders which are not publicly announced. This type of procedure can be applied up to a threshold of HUF 300 million in the future. Fair competition and access to public procurement for a wider range of undertakings are served by the new provision under which the contracting authority is obliged to change the identity of the economic operators to be invited to tender in its procedures. [[11.20]] The provision would serve as an effective tool to prevent potential corruption relationships, as it prevents individual suppliers from being cemented in procurements that are not advertised. In order to ensure transparency between the public and procurements, the draft law requires the contracting authority to publish publicly on its website and in the procurement database the invitation to tender, the procurement documents, the names of the economic operators invited to tender and the breakdown report, on the basis of which it is possible to follow who actually made a tender in the procedure. Ladies and Gentlemen, In connection with the reform of the aforementioned national procedural order, the XC of 2016 on Hungary's central budget was submitted to Parliament. a proposal to amend law. In essence, the bill increases the international public procurement thresholds for non-contracting entities for more than ten years from HUF 8 million to HUF 15 million, from HUF 15 million to HUF 25 million for works and from HUF 25 million to HUF 30 million for service concessions. The increase in the threshold of the procedural obligation to public procurement is a significant simplification for the minimum value of procurement. Public procurement procedures require, in addition to the simplifications that can be applied in national procedures, a strictly regulated procedure that requires specific expertise from contracting authorities. The obligations and strict procedural constraints associated with the procurement procedure represent a disproportionate burden for contracting entities for a procurement of HUF 8 million, which justifies an increase in national procurement thresholds. Ladies and Gentlemen, In parallel with the increase in the thresholds, the amendment also provides for the request for three tenders below the thresholds in order to ensure a regulated and verifiable execution of procurement which is not subject to a public procurement obligation. According to the relevant delegation provisions, the government may lay down more detailed requirements for the conclusion of contracts concluded by contracting entities under a non-procurement procedure with a value below the national threshold and shall inform the Minister responsible for public procurement of the procurement of contracting entities. With this regulation, the threshold above which contracting entities select their contractual partners is significantly reduced to HUF 1 million instead of HUF 8 million. Ladies and Gentlemen, From all of this, it can be concluded that the bill will make public procurement even simpler and faster, and their transparency will increase even more. On this basis, I would like to ask you to support the 2015 public procurement exercise. CHAPTER CXLIII Act T/12738 amending Act T/12738 and certain related laws Bill No. 1. The KDNP parliamentary faction supports it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-08-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr István Apáti. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2016-11-08-29	Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The public procurement system and the public procurement law itself and the entire rule of law governing public procurement should be a particularly powerful engine of the Hungarian economy, as every year, the public procurement system is worth a thousand billion forints, with contracting authorities spending thousands of billions of dollars of EU funds or carrying out their own budget purchases. I could say, with a metaphor taken from a trilogy called The Lord of the Rings, that public procurement could be a magic wand, a magic rod in the hands of the current government, but it doesn't matter that it holds that magic wand in the hands of Grey Gandalf or Saruman. If many Sarumans appear in the system, the power of Sauron will be infinite, infinite, and sooner or later the evil wizards of corruption will be invincible. But in order to go over the text of the bill from the well-known film analogy, I must immediately argue with Minister Lázár, because János Tóth and Miklós Hajdú examined tens of thousands of Hungarian public procurements, and their numbers differ significantly from what the Minister has just described in connection with the procedures without notice or with a single bidder. The same is true, as the Minister said, that more than one third and 36 percent of the Hungarian public procurements, except for the period 2011-13, were unbidden or included up to one bidder, an economic operator. In this respect, we are not well on the EU's comparison either, because according to the analysis carried out by the two gentlemen indicated above, the Czechs and Slovaks have lowered this ratio to below 20 per cent, and the EU average is rather close to the one-digit rate, in many cases it is around 5 per cent, so there is some contradiction between the statements and the analyses. I will ask the Secretary of State to lift this or to respond to it, because we are now particularly curious about what numbers are authentic. Without a Union comparison, 36 percent are procedures which either start without a notice or are included in it, I believe that it is suspicious, without any comparison. Not only because of the lack of competition or because of what has already been indicated, it is very limited, but also because of the lack of transparency, which has indeed increased significantly since 2010. The co-operation of the two factors and the strengthening effect of the two factors will greatly strengthen or increase the level of corruption and the risk of corruption. The increase in the thresholds may be justified by the fact that 10 years have passed and it is just enough 10 years to review these thresholds. It is also possible to examine the fact that this may be a significant facilitation, especially for local authorities, especially local authorities, as they are likely to have to carry out much fewer public procurement procedures, but at the same time it may be easy to pour out the child with bathing water, because the risk of corruption is also increased by increasing these thresholds for supplies, orders of services from 8 to 15 million, works from 15 to 25 million, and service concessions from 25 to 30 million. The risk of corruption is increasing even if it is said from the other side that, in the case of purchases with a net value of HUF 1 million not exceeding the public procurement limit, three bids should be requested. I would like to add three identical bids, since three identical tenders are submitted by the contracting authorities or tenderers, so as not to give them any room for manoeuvre. But it's just a little clarification that you have to think about three identical bids. In particular, when the threshold is increased, there is also a problem that you created in 2010 in the creation of the new public procurement law at that time, namely, the rules on the prohibition of co-ordination and breakdown compared to the period 2003-2010 have been completely disrupted. I have to say, unfortunately, we have come this far in this regard, that the rules that were in force in 2003 and 10 were stricter and, in this respect, better. It is possible that I can also accept the arguments that, in some places, they were almost too strict and that procurements that might arise in terms of economic, technical or any reason to take them apart, but that they could practically widen the gates that the contracting authorities would break down as much as possible, would not, in fact, be counted together, and thus split into parts, cut up, interpreted in a rather creative or excessive manner, would normally be able to play out the threshold of 25 million for the current 8 and 15 million service concessions, and the threshold of 15 and 25 million or 30 million would be even easier to circumvent. I have constantly drawn your attention to this problem in the debate on all public procurement laws since 2010, but somehow this message has not yet passed. [[11.30]] Contrary to what I can confirm or commend that a six-and-a-half-year-old, nearly seven-year-old struggle has been won - won by Jobbik or won by me personally - by now having to send the invitation to tender to five tenderers, not three or four, but now. Obviously, this is not a foolproof solution either, but it is certainly a significant step forward, because, on the basis of the rules in force for many years, it was easier to put together two helpful offers than it is now, when four people may have to be prepared for abuse, because we can see from the procedures currently under way that the more people know about a party, the more people are preparing to commit crimes, whether in a criminal alliance or in a criminal organisation, the more risky for them, the greater the risk of being caught, the greater the chances that the authorities will somehow, even through a secret investigation, find this. After all, the more people involved, the more actors, the more dissatisfied there may be, and in such a sharp situation it cannot be more dangerous for those who wish to engage in criminal activities than a disgruntled economic operator. What is here an increase in the limit of 25 million to 40 million for business organisations is that they have received EU or budgetary support of 25 million, as it stands, if the amount of aid has reached 25 million, they are supposed to be obliged to public procurement, now they are increased from 25 million to 40. Exactly a year ago, Mr Secretary of State, we had a lot to deal with, and I tried to take it in the direction that, in the case of non-budgetary bodies, it would be appropriate not only to think about increasing the ceiling, because there is a different risk here, not a classic risk of corruption, but also a public procurement obligation, expressed as a percentage of the aid intensity. I know the rules or activities related to farming, the operation of family farms, agriculture directly and therefore much better, and indeed, in the case of an aid intensity not exceeding 50 per cent, especially in the case of small amounts of aid with a ceiling, it may be rather doubtful or it makes it quite difficult to use the aid legally, even if it makes it too difficult to impose a public procurement obligation, say, for small or medium-sized family farms who are obviously not prepared for this. Even if the resources needed to carry out the procedure, let us say, are available, there is a very serious shortage of professionals, and there is a different financial or economic risk here. Obviously, it is not in the interest of an economic operator to steal himself, but the problem may be that he is over-costing the budget of the tender and, therefore, illegally or even if a criminal offence is carried out, he is trying to increase the maximum aid intensity of 50 per cent creatively to well over 50 per cent, 70, 80 or 90 per cent. So, obviously, to exclude this risk, to reduce this risk, but basically I do not consider it an idea from a devil or from reality that such limits may otherwise be worth raising, but only if the aid intensity is included in the rule. In other words, if, on the other hand, either an agricultural entrepreneur or a agricultural company, in most cases, does not make a purchase out of EU or budgetary money, but puts 50 percent of its own money in a given procurement, it is possible to argue how correct it is to impose such a very serious administrative burden on him. This is, therefore, perhaps even the best part of this amendment that can be protected from your point of view. It can no longer be defended at all, which, except for the judge in Ghevi, allows the Government to exempt from the procedure various economic operators in a specific government decision on a basis. There is neither a taxatical nor an exemplary list here. The very well-sounding, highly creative definitions, such as the aim of the efficient use of public funds, the use of resources in the most economically advantageous way, can be the reasons which can underpin the government's decision, but they do not yet tell us what counts. So, in practice here, in the discretion of the particular decision-maker - just the government - he can exempt anyone from almost any procedure, which is why the previous statement from one of my opposition colleagues is correct that the search for the government's favor is likely to take place on a large scale and will significantly speed up and expand. What we cannot agree with is the increase of the 100 million threshold to 300 million HUF in the case of works. Since we are always talking about net amounts in terms of estimated value, this allows, in gross terms, nearly HUF 400 million and nearly half a billion of public funds to be used in such a way that virtually all of this is done with the total or large exclusion of the public. The current rule is that this kind of possibility exists for contracting authorities up to HUF 100 million net, and now it is raised to 300. It must now be posted for at least 5 working days above HUF 100 million, so the announcement must be made public. It could also be considered, we will put forward a proposal to increase this minimum of 5 working days to maybe 8 or 10, as long as it remains public, and a certain number of actors should be invited to the procedure. However, this HUF 300 million threshold, think about it - let's just stay in the local government world - makes it possible for settlements of relatively larger size to carry out major institution renovations - regardless of how many players, three, four or five have to be invited into the procedure - to do business, to play together, and to actually reduce the procurement procedure to a lighter or heavier, more complicated or simpler paper production, to the completion of paperwork, which normally cannot be anyone's goal. And once again, we have to go back to the non-promotional procedures, specifically the non-promotional procedures. I am not talking about where, in addition to or without this, an offer is submitted only by a bidder. 13 per cent, the EU strongly opposed this rate, this threshold-threefold increase in essence this ratio and will distort economic competition even more. And as far as the case of exemption from cartels is concerned, this is exactly the same, except for the judge in Ghevi. Here, in the above-mentioned way, the individual dispensation of certain economic entities on the basis of vague and vague terms, which will depend practically on who has what influence, who has what lobbying power, who can easily reach this decision. There should be no such exemption from cartels, and no one who has committed a serious infringement of public procurement rules should be exempted at all. This 90-day rule, also said by the Minister, is very nice, so that for 90 days all public procurement in Hungary can be excluded from those who have committed serious breach of contract. In addition to the fact that the liking of such tenderers, let us say, in contracts concluded as a result of a public procurement procedure - I am typically talking about works - could be taken away by a substantial penalty of delay or failure, from trying to do anything wrong or anything wrong. And what I may not have time to explain later, I'm just going to mention what I miss very much, and I can't get out of my skin as a former notary, as a representative working for several years in the local government, and I'm now a political player that has taken away the possibility of collecting documentation fees from the municipalities. In the past, this system worked very well, and this was not good for anything else, except that it was able to cover some of the very, very large costs incurred by carrying out public procurement procedures, and in better case all of them. And then we have to come back here to the huge problem of not only small, but also medium-sized settlements, in many cases there is no public procurement expert, there is no accredited public procurement expert, previously called official public procurement consultant. So there is no specialist, there is a lack of human resources, there are financial problems, and there is an urgent need to come up with something to remedy them, whether in this amendment or in the more comprehensive amendment. It was a huge mistake to take this opportunity away, at least to give it back to the municipal authorities, but then we will continue from here. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-08-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mr Ákos Hadházy. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[11.40]]
u2016-11-08-31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, We're talking about the Public Procurement Act, in principle. A lot of people, when they hear the word "public procurement law," they quickly close their hearing, they don't listen, it's a boring word. This law would be a good idea to call it something else. Some people here call him Kbt. It's more of a neutral thing. This law is, in fact, a law of theft technology, so if we were to express reality, then perhaps we should give this name, that it is a law of theft technology, then we could talk about it. The government parties, the Secretary of State, have passed through a few stages. Just like there are stages of mourning when it comes to the stage of admission of corruption, they got to the point where they said there was nothing here. The Prime Minister has not yet passed these stages, even the last time he said that in Hungary zero tolerance against corruption. The Prime Minister isn't here yet, he's not here now, but he hasn't been through this stage, but you've been through it. You say now, first you say that there are some cases, then you say that the problems are really systemic, but that's only been the case since the previous government, and now you're saying yes-yes, and now we're going to change. We hear cynical speeches, this whole bill could actually be a monument to cynicalism, so we could also call it Ct., the law of cynism. Those who watch, perhaps not many, such a keynote speech, there are also guests up here who watch, those who must be told, a public procurement can be open public procurement, can be restricted public procurement. Open public procurement means when it is written out on certain surfaces and anyone can apply and offer offers to sell or do something to the State. In restricted public procurement, however, mayor or someone who has just received a small amount of public money and can dispose of it, invites three bidders. The interesting thing and the very important thing is that even in the case of open public procurement, so today, when something is announced that you can do business, in today's circumstances, however, as we have heard, 30 percent of the cases will be one offer, and the one who chooses from one offer is either stupid and stupid or corrupt, because if you do not know the basic economic law that you will probably receive a better offer from multiple offers, then you are either stupid or deliberately dissuaded. He's got his skills. The question may be, in the case of open public procurement, that there may not be a candidate. So it could be that the Hungarian economy is going so well that no one wants to sign up for a kindergarten building and look for these candidates. We have the techniques to openly define public procurement... [[Turning to Dr. István Apáti, János Volner and Dr. László György Lukács:]] I apologize, when there are so many of us, I understand, but when there are few, it's harder. So how come there's only one candidate for open public procurement? These are the techniques that everyone knows it's not worth starting, because they're not gonna win. How do you do that? In the past, the technique was to ask for big references, so public procurement was issued in such a way that only a certain company would comply with this thing. Things are more sophisticated than that today. They do it today, there are two techniques, one is to exclude the bidder, so there are very good examples of this. For example, in Szekszárd it was a public cleanliness or a cleaning competition, it was possible to apply to clean the local government's schools and the sports hall. What does God do? A congressman named Lajos Fajsi started on it, and his company started on it, but somehow there was a hostile offer, and then it made a 10% cheaper offer. What's going on? We've got a problem. What you have to do is spit through the hundreds of pages of offers. They found one where they forgot to write it in the men's room at the sports hall, they forgot to write it in, they're gonna change the soap weekly - soap is not given by them, it's not sold by them, it's been excluded from the tender. We can do bigger things than that, you have ruled out a businessman who is suddenly an enemy bidder because the deck of the ship he provided was a few square meters different from the one that is appropriate; it is Mr Simicska, isn't it? He was then wanted to be excluded from public procurement for years because of this mistake. So the exclusions, the rigor, are, like, one of the tools for that. The other means to make the enemy bidder impossible - [[To Nándor Csepreghy:]] I'm not telling you, you know that very well, so I'd rather say that to the camera - and that's when you say that you can be subjective about an offer. So we're not just looking at whether it's up to what we've written, and we're not just looking at how much money that offer was made, we're looking at the quality of an offer, let's say, of a study. Here you can buy - one of these was Szekszárd, it was possible to buy - a specialist, and the expert wrote for that money that most points would be awarded to the person who was about to be entrusted to the mayor's office. So with such techniques, it can be done that everyone in open public procurement now knows that there will be only one winner, and that is the one who has discussed this procurement with you, the mayor or anyone else. In restricted cases, therefore, when three tenderers are invited, this is even simpler, since only those three tenderers need to be consulted. They don't listen to details a lot. Here is the classic example, there is a small triangle in this House, a Bermuda Triangle, the Bermuda Triangle of EU money, sitting next to each other - you are not sitting here now, because they are not here - Congressman Simonka, Congressman Mengyi and Congressman Gábor Varga. [[Interview from Jobbik's ranks: Experts.]] They're experts on this, yes, they should be called here, but they're not here, because they know very well what this is about. Practically in Pusztaottlaka, South Békés, Cecén and Lajoskomarom, 200 kilometers apart are Cece and Pusztaottlaka, the same three companies were invited to offer a health check, blood pressure and blood sugar measurement for 16 million HUF. These three companies were not health companies, they were downtown companies in Budapest. Obviously, from thousands or tens of thousands of companies in Hungary to invite the same three companies, this could only work if they had a nice conversation with each other. There can't be an explanation, but it's a very nice thing. I must say that the question then arises why we are talking about this here, i.e. Kbt., or. Ltt., what we are talking about here, because we can play it, and we have to say that whatever laws we make, we can play it, speed measurement can be played if speed is not complied with. The one thing that matters is that there are public procurements, and that's the public. So procurement where public procurement should take place is public because they can be sought in public databases. In fact, this is how the Öveges program fell, so we got to the point where today the Central Transdanubian NAV investigating authority moved the Öveges program to the investigating authority of the central NAV, because it said that this was a case that could only be done with a central organization, with a high level of central organization, and basically says that it is a particularly high value series of fraud committed in a continuing criminal alliance. This case was brought down by a veterinarian during the examination of two dogs, because these public procurements were included in these databases. Procurement where there is no procurement procedure will not be included in these databases. Technically, you can say that this public procurement law, where there is public procurement, will be much more effective publication. However, the most important thing of the whole law is that there is much less public procurement after this, since it has so far had to be done in procurements above HUF 8 million, then it will be HUF 15 million, and they will go beyond the investments they have built, instead of HUF 15 million, because so far - I say this to those who might watch it, this is a few people - if someone was a private company but spent EU funding, it also required public procurement and it had to be put into these databases. So far, over HUF 25 million, this limit will be HUF 40 million, just in order not to have to report them, and that stupid vet - he was told here that he was stupid - doesn't notice these things. [[11.50]] They're raising these boundaries. In fact, they're going so far, it's in this law that the government, if you think so, the government says for a purchase that we don't need public procurement here. That's why we think that this bill itself is actually nothing more than what they do here, the law of cynicism. There are three things that we have heard about tightening up, speeding up, and then talking about not only money, but also quality. We don't really see security. There's only one, that's the exclusion that can be ruled out for 90 days by someone who didn't perform well. As I said, you're the tightening-up at a time like this, if you're using this device, it's about who you might not like, you'll be able to rule out for some reason. To include more subjective elements in their assessment, so less money should be the determining factor, but also the quality of the execution, which is also the way in which I gave the first examples, so that an expert can possibly be paid and you can tell us how to rule out this company further. In fact, we didn't find any data for acceleration in this bill. It's just that if you can inject materials electronically, you can reduce deadlines by five days. By the way, the acceleration itself sounds really good. There is so much acceleration in this proposal that public procurement thresholds are raised. If there is no public procurement, it will indeed become faster, but then it is no longer the effect of this law. Let me tell you a story. In connection with a 5 million HUF purchase in Szekszárd - so there was no need to conduct public procurement - Provital Kft. was entrusted with public procurement consultancy, otherwise for the second time. Like the Belts case, they're investigating this case. This was done by writing this out by the mayor of Szekszárd, inviting three companies with a one-day deadline to submit the offer in one day. Well, what does God give? Friendly offers were somehow not received, so the Economic Commission withdrew and gave three days' notice. It's true that it was part of the weekend. Yes, you know very well that there are many times very serious documentation to be provided in public procurement. These are already often ridiculously short times. If the bidder really knew the terms at that moment, then very often it would be a very short period of 2 months, 2 weeks or 4 weeks. Of course, if the details had already been discussed six months before, Mr Tiborcz - we are talking about the Prime Minister's son-in-law - at his LED lamps, the mayor had already discussed the details with the responsible person of Mr Tiborcz's company when it was just a question of whether to apply for a feasibility study. That is why what Mr Lazarus said here is that there is a time when it takes years to prepare, because it is necessary to prepare how to steal. That's why we can call the public procurement law the theft law. [[Dr. István Apáti's intervention.]] It could be improved, and we have to say this, if someone is watching this, and we are not just here in private or in private, we can say that we could make laws that actually reduce the possibility of stealing. Obviously, laws alone can't eliminate all the potential for theft. And it's obvious, like all laws, that it's very important what one of these is being followed. I'm pretty sure, and unfortunately, it's subjective, but maybe it's not so subjective, because I'm already holding about the 40th press conference that we hold weekly. [[László Kucsák's intervention.]] I've made some pretty serious allegations. So I think that as long as you are on the government, you can make any laws, these phenomena will obviously remain. The only thing that's bothering you is the public. They feel it, they assess that people feel and are aware of what you're doing. That is why it was necessary to include in this law the fact that public procurement should only be carried out in much larger items than it has been before. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-08-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, Mr István Apáti has applied for a repeated speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-08-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, What did not fit in the 15 minutes, and a very interesting part of this regulation, is what started to emerge here in the Simonka case, namely that the same operators, the same economic operators, appeared as tenderers in public procurement procedures that were or have been carried out geographically up to hundreds of kilometres apart, or have concluded contracts as a result of such procedures, whether they are service orders or works contracts. I understand that it is necessary to take a formal step in order to at least be able to say or to say that you are going to end this, as contracting authorities will have to change between the economic operators invited to tender, i.e. those who will be invited, in a simpler, kitchen language, to these procurement procedures, and this alone will be a guarantee that the same economic operators will not appear in several similar or identical procurement procedures. That sounds great, but I'm afraid it's not gonna happen. The effectiveness of this in terms of curbing corruption and carteling and various abuses is about as if we're trying to stop an AK-47 projectile with cardboard instead of a professional bulletproof vest. This will be worth nothing, it will not be able to provide any substantial protection against corruption. As I have drawn your attention - and I am going to do it once more - to the two regulations, except for the judge of Ghevi, which would, on the one hand, grant individual exemptions to economic operators, and, on the other hand, I did not really have time to do so at the end of the speaker's speech, to grant individual exemptions from cartel exclusions. Tell me, what's the need for this? ! If, once, they want to bring in the exclusion of serious contract infringement tenderers from all public procurement in Hungary for at least 90 days - which is the right direction, beyond the fact that there are other contractual instruments to curb them, avoid them or prevent them - then what is the need to grant exemptions from the exclusion of a cartel on the other side, or to include decisions taken under such discretionary powers and powers in the rule document? What I would like to say, on behalf of the municipalities of small towns, is that unless it conflicts with EU rules, because I am afraid that these arguments will always come up at this time, I am talking again about the documentation fee, at a time when it would be easier, especially for small towns, small municipalities, or, by the way, there is a suggestion, idea, proposal for Jobbik, with which I hope you will agree, usually the argument that it is a very good, excellent idea, but that is not allowed by EU legislation. I ask very strongly that we look at the possibility that we can bring back that regulation as soon as possible, whether from 1 January 2017 onwards or from 1 January 2017 - when I have just mentioned this, I have seen more nodding, more approval from you - so that at least on the settlements of at least 10 thousand inhabitants - I am also convinced that we can bring in other aspects, so that they can collect documentation fees, regardless of the number of people or the number of inhabitants, or any other regulations, but at least in small and medium-sized municipalities, at least in such areas. They should be able to open and use such a title to cover at least part of their costs incurred in carrying out public procurement procedures. Let me give you a simple example, whether public procurement is carried out with support, whether from EU funding, Hungarian budget money or from the local government's own budget, to my knowledge, public procurement costs are spread somewhere between 0.5-2 percent and the fees of the accredited public procurement expert. If it goes steeply over 2 percent, it's getting a little suspicious again, it's usually determined at about 0.5-2 percent. Think of it as a small settlement in North or East Hungary for the restoration of the institution after eleven years or fifteen years of struggle, let's say it finally wins 100 million forints, and in good case - that is a very good case - the award for the procurement procedure, the complicated, the expert's fee can be counted into the budget, then this problem is checked out. [[12.00]] If, say, the support is such that it cannot or cannot be calculated as a whole, then it will be charged with hundreds of thousands or millions of experts' fees. If you use budget money to implement the public procurement procedure, there's no such possibility, and then you'll have to put your hands in the pocket to pay the expert. According to my personal experience, 90-99 percent of these municipalities do not have public officials with public procurement expertise at all, in many cases the notary or the sub-notary or one of the department heads or department heads does not have such qualifications as it is not possible to make them statutory to obtain such qualifications on a compulsory basis or to employ persons with such expertise, accredited public procurement experts. An accredited public procurement expert will be in a position to work in a municipality, not even in a larger municipality, in a relatively short period of time after starting his career, because he earns much more on the market, and it is much better for him to carry out his public procurement expertise in the form of an individual or social enterprise. So there's no expert, no money, usually none in these municipalities. Moreover, this could also be found in respect of accredited trainings, and this system worked well in the period 2005 and more often than now, OKJ qualifications have been advertised. If the municipalities were to train civil servants or public service officers for such training, who felt committed to learning this very, very difficult profession, at least initially on a theoretical basis, then let's say they could use central budget support to do so, so that where there is a suitable civil servant at all, they could train themselves. Such training is quite expensive, and this is also a heavy burden for the municipality. This could be one of my proposals, which could be a major blow to the cost of training professionals, helping municipalities. The second is that, if you do not have such a professional, you cannot train such a person for training, at least by smuggling back the institution of the documentation fee, making it clear in the regulation that not only the invitation to tender can cover the cost of raw materials related to the performance of the paperwork, but also by trying to determine these documentation fees up to and including the fees of the accredited public procurement consultant, to the extent and in proportion to the fees of the consultant, because it is a huge help for municipalities. I remember well that exactly ten years ago, in 2006, when we were in such a lucky position in the village of Kocsord that we were able to renovate primary school and look at IT procurement, it was not possible to plan the fees for conducting the public procurement procedure in that EU tender, and it was very, very good that we were able to collect documentation fees from the bidders - thank God, many of us came forward, especially for the IT procedure - and we were able to pay practically all the costs related to the implementation of the public procurement procedure, so we were able to fully relieve the municipality, which was very, very good. There was a chance then, and now I'm afraid it's gone. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] I ask that, with the support of the state of professional training or the return of the institution of the documentation fee, we at least support small municipalities in disadvantaged areas. Thank you very much. [[Dr. László György Lukács applauds.]]
u2016-11-08-34	Thank you, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Yes, I give the floor to Mr Péter Csizi, Fidesz Group, two minutes.
u2016-11-08-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I asked for the floor because I would like to return to the Minister's exposé. It is important that when we talk about amendments to the Public Procurement Act here in Parliament, we look at what has happened in the last five to six years. I still remember the period ten years ago when public procurement law handled public procurement so loosely that, say, in the city of Pécs, a HUF 4.5 billion construction project related to the cultural capital of Europe, the building of the Knowledge Centre was won by a company such as the cheapest bidder, which did not otherwise have employees. Even at the moment of the announcement of the result, it was already clear that for that amount, a building could not be built that had previously been dreamed by engineers and which was licensed during the approval. After that, this company tried everything to obtain the necessary financial resources with various tricks to build the building, and otherwise we could not recover the necessary warranty measures in the past from this company, as the company disappeared after the construction and some of the subcontractors were not paid. So, ladies and gentlemen, these have been in the past. The current amendment, also a year ago, gave the local authorities virtually a number of guarantee elements that had already excluded such fortune hunters from the system, and such and similar stories, which were common during the Socialist Government, are no longer present today. So, although there are certain criticisms, we can also accept legitimate criticisms, but it cannot be said that our public procurement law has not become realistic in recent years and has not changed according to local interests and Hungarian interests. Thank you for listening.
u2016-11-08-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Ákos Hadházy, Member of the LMP Group, asked for the floor in a normal time frame. You have the floor.
u2016-11-08-37	Thank you very much for the floor. I was just thinking of saying this speech that there are two communication panels that you're saying, but they're actually connected. They say they're not hiding it anymore, they're not trying to deny it, because it's irrefutable to see a lot of cases that come out every day today, cases that would have caused governments to fall for it immediately, every day. And what you've done here... obviously that's what you've been told to say, and they always say because that's what the other one did. People who say there's always been corruption, always will be, always will be, there's nothing to do with it. It's not true, it could be filtered, it could be reduced, it really can't be said that it shouldn't be. This bill, which we are talking about today, is not suitable for this, it's a further patching up of a bill of larceny. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-08-38	Thank you, Congressman. I would like to inform you, Congressman, that I cannot give you the opportunity to speak for two minutes, because now... [[For signal:]] I'm sorry. Here you go, Congressman. Then we consider this to be the next round, so close to each other these speaking circles. You have the floor in two minutes.
u2016-11-08-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would also like to respond to my honourable fellow Member. I was just trying to outline to you where we started, and the first law on public procurement that was passed in Hungary and, by the way, we went through our first EU cycle together, how unviable it was, and how difficult it was, for example, to draw and spend EU money. Just think that in many cases EU funds could not be spent on local development because the otherwise legitimate procedural parameters in the Public Procurement Act did not fit the tender, and there was no time for implementation after the necessary timeframe for carrying out public procurement, and the total investment and settlement could not be carried out in accordance with EU rules. We ran out of time, and at the end of the day, we fell from local tender and development resources. For example, the great advantage of the amendment a year ago is the launch of framework procurements that can be launched early in order to achieve it as clearly as possible, in a more acceptable way and by generating competition, and then, when the European Union tender amount arrives at the locality, the particular candidate, there is no longer a need to waste time with the implementation, since we can start building, investment or procurement immediately. [[12.10]] This is also an amendment that has made the system viable, which has accelerated the use of EU funds and has resulted in a virtually serious implementation on the ground.
u2016-11-08-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As I do not see any other speakers, the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Nándor Csepreghy, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-11-08-41	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Allow me to respond substantially to some of the comments made by its representatives before the closing, without the need for completeness, and to predict that the Government is open to a substantive debate on the amendments tabled by the parties here, but I would nevertheless like to make an oral amendment in respect of one or two of them. First of all, by listening to Mr Csaba Tóth's essentially exposure, it is certainly a joyful conclusion that the most serious criticism of the MSZP on this draft law can essentially be summarised as an excessive administrative obligation for contracting authorities. I do not agree with many things with Mr Hadházy, but the only thing I do agree with is that transparency is indeed one of the most effective or best means of fighting corruption, and transparency depends on the public, the public, which in this respect is given a much wider opportunity than in the case of previous public procurement laws. You mentioned the previous law on public procurement, which was negotiated by Parliament a year ago, and I had the pleasure of participating in that debate, and I also said that we are talking about a law that the Parliament is expected to adopt on numerous occasions in the coming months or years. Neither can we today... - and this legislative amendment will not be a type of regulation that paves the system of public procurement in Hungary for decades without having to touch it. I believe that all such amendments point to how to make the use of public funds more effective, how to essentially, if you like, take the ammunition out of the hands of the opposition through transparency to try or attack the government by mentioning suspected or, where appropriate, real corruption cases; in the latter case, I think you are doing quite right, and in the case of cases of the first category, this is, of course, an obligation arising from opposition. With the question that the Member mentioned in relation to pricing and transparency or in relation to the comparison of tenders received, a very important debate is being held, because the public procurement practice so far in Hungary has pointed in the direction in which we consider the cheapest offer to be a measure, and the government has to decide on the basis of which of the cheapest offers received. You can even agree with that, but you only have to define cheapness. Because if you look at the public funds used in Hungary since 1990, you will encounter very few investments that have been fully evaluated, where they have actually produced a price at the end of the investment, which was the cheapest one before the construction. One of the most critical examples of this is the investment of subway 4, where nearly a price doubling occurred. So the price by which the government essentially gave the Municipality of Metro 4 a grant to start its investment, and the price that was the actual cost of the investment, the two were no longer in a thank-you relationship at the end of the process. Therefore, we say that there is a need for an evaluation system for public procurement, which, when assessing a price, not only takes into account what the construction price actually means, but also takes into account what other costs may be charged on it, and the maintenance costs of the project, which is carried out in the context of public procurement, which makes it possible to achieve this, are the burden on the contracting authority, the state company or, where appropriate, the government. This is the price that the government must take into account when assessing the offers received, and in this respect it can indeed compare apples with apples. Therefore, not only is the bid price important, but also the total cost of the entire project, and in this respect also the units that may subsequently be price-changing factors should be taken into account. Mr Abbot, if you have mentioned the Lord of the Rings and the mythological characters of the Lord of the Rings, then if I have to find the role of the government in this mythical world or circle of sayings, I think that the role of the Elves may be right, which the government of all time must claim. [[Dr. István Józsa applauded: Nice! It's very nice.]] Thank you very much for the words of Congressman Józsa. [[Sándor Burány: It's for theory, not practice.]] In this respect, I think that the role or task of the government is clear. Here, Mr President, you have raised a number of questions, to which I would like to respond in substance. On the one hand, in the last amendment to the Public Procurement Act, we had the debate with you, which you mentioned, that the threshold for agricultural investors is a significant question of where we make public procurement their obligation, as it is an administrative obligation that they have difficulty bearing. I have already told you that the government is open to considering in the future that we are raising this line, and this is in this bill specifically: we are raising the previous proposal of 25 million to 40 million. I would like to say that with this threshold of 40 million, we can cover more than 90 percent of agricultural family businesses. There are still those who are above it, but now it can be said that their question has been dealt with in the crowd. It has been apparent from the experience of the last year, which was sufficient time to re-enter this law, that the amendment does not entail the risk that the government may gain a new black point towards the European Commission due to its failure to guarantee transparency in its entirety. With regard to the request of the five contracting authorities, we think that once again there is a question of what is sufficient; the three were not; the five were more than that, but we need six, and then we need seven. At the same point, I would like to suggest that, if Jobbik has a proposal supported by reasonable arguments, we are also open to discussing this in the coming days and weeks. Mr President, a figure has also been mentioned, where I would like to make a clarification. You said that the proportion of single-offer procedures in many Member States of the European Commission is one-digit, while in Hungary it is 36 percent high. There is no EU Member State where the number of tenders within a Member State or of procurement conducted with a bid would be below 10%. The lowest is Austria by 10 percent, the highest is Croatia by 44 percent. But if I want to compare countries in the area, then the Czech Republic is 33 percent, Cyprus is 40 percent - not a country in the area - Latvia is 32, Hungary is 36, Poland is 43, Romania is 36, Slovenia is 39, Slovakia is 32. So there are only numbers available according to the official statistics of the European Commission where this figure is two figures everywhere. There is no doubt that government procurement legislation must move in the direction that allows this number to be reduced. It is also a recurring opposition attack - and I would certainly not like to defend specific matters here, but I would still like to stand by a principle. Hungary has been an open market economy since 1990. If, at different points in the country, a given bidder is truly able to offer the best service in quality and be competitive in price, I do not see any irregularities there, and I do not see any problem with the fact that it is the same provider who, where appropriate, provides a service in Battonya and Székesfehérvár, regardless of the type of service we are talking about. The problem begins when the quality or price of these services can be started. So I think that it is not worth taking part in the debates where the only argument for the debate or the only argument for criticism consists in saying that, because there are two remote settlements, there is the same bidder performing a service, this is a suspicion of corruption in itself. No! [[Dr. Tamás Harangozó: That is not the problem, Mr. Secretary, but the problem is that political relations...]] It must be examined whether political relations are in the background or not. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] Congressman, whether political relations are in the background or not, if this service provider can bring the cheapest quality and price, then it is not a problem that they do the service. If their work can be questioned qualitatively or at a price, then your criticisms are justified, and then the criticisms of this system are justified. In itself, the fact that a Hungarian company provides here and there is not in itself a suspicion of corruption. If we can agree with that, I think we've already made progress. [[12.20]] As regards the documentation procedures, which was mentioned by the Member for smaller municipalities, the abolition of the publication fee for the invitation to tender was intended to support this assistance. But we are also open to looking at this in terms of additional rates and the fees that can be collected. I am curious about the proposal of the specific textual amendment, because if it does not contradict any of the relevant EU rules, the Government will consider adopting and accepting it. I therefore ask you to submit a specific textual proposal. Congressman Hadházy and I are in a more difficult position. Since the writers of mythological figures and mythological stories are on the agenda here, I can interpret the work of Congressman at the heights of Tolkien, Andersen and Grimm. However, I would like to urge the Member, if he is serious about the confidence given to his party by the voters of LMP in 2014, to fill it - even if he considers the work of the Members sitting here to be completely illegitimate in his political speeches - to honour his own electorate by actually making meaningful contributions to a debate, and not expressing many and loud clichés that do not hold their place statistically. Mr President, you know very well that in recent years, if we take into account only the period since 2010, thousands of public procurements have taken place in Hungary. Some of the cases you're putting on the agenda are indeed criminal matters. In these cases, the police, the D.A., are investigating. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Hungary is a democratic country where the branches of power are separated from each other. If the police investigate an ongoing case, then the government has no other obligation than to provide the police with all the information, all the information, and if there is an indictment, then the court has the power to deal with it. I would suggest that, while replacing party books from one party to another, you should also spend at least that much time, Mr President, in order to understand the fundamental rules of the Hungarian state settlement. Overall, I would like to say, as the closing point of the opening debate, that this public procurement law basically serves three objectives. It is a tightening of the fact that it provides a higher opportunity for insight, greater access to either the interested public, political parties or anyone who sees the guarantee of regularity in the use of European Union funds or domestic funds in transparency. It provides simplification - and this has been a trend for years - in order to serve the government's intention, where this is possible, that the integration of the Hungarian SME network into public investment is a key strategic objective. And there are some elements that point towards acceleration, because Hungary's competitiveness is very much determined by the rapid implementation of these investments, and in this case speed means that Hungary can move towards its competitors, compared to the neighbouring countries of the European Union and not of the European Union. Mr. President. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-08-42	I thank you, Mr Secretary, for your answer and for your closure. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. I would also ask the factions, as the ParLex system is now in place, to submit amendments on the necessary form in accordance with the letter sent by the President. Thank you for your understanding. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CXCIX on public service officials follows. Act LXXIII of 2016 on Foreign Representations and Permanent External Service General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral T/12699. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, the author of the item on the agenda. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2016-11-08-43	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, On 13 June 2016, the Parliament adopted a law on foreign representations and permanent foreign service, the adoption of which, in addition to the classic diplomatic tasks, was not only unified, but also significantly broadened, the toolbox of Hungarian foreign policy was expanded by the establishment of an external administration involving the foreign economy, as well as cultural and scientific diplomacy. Of course, the bill that we are discussing now leaves the law adopted in June unchanged conceptually, but in recent months, a number of questions and technical details have been raised regarding the application of the law, to which we feel that, in these new circumstances, it is absolutely appropriate to adapt the legislation, so it is actually about fine-tuning a whole new system. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to the operation of foreign representations, the law on foreign representations and permanent foreign service also includes the basic provisions of the permanent foreign service. This legislation is structurally twofold, given the fact that it regulates the operation of Hungary's permanent representation with the European Union through a separate chapter, which is necessary due to its complexity and its key role. In addition to our permanent representation with the European Union, the provisions of the Law previously adopted will enter into force on 1 August 2017. Due to the dual structure of the law, the harmonisation of certain provisions deserves special attention. Ladies and gentlemen, The recent amendment of the law therefore aims to address the problems arising from day-to-day operation, as well as technical clarifications, which, as I have already said, do not change the concept of the law in any way and its original regulatory content. The amendment of the Public Service Officers Act will now allow the placement of qualified high-school graduates who carry out most administrative, secretarial tasks and are not qualified in this respect. The bill introduces as a novelty the concept of a spouse employed by foreign representations. With this new form of employment, we want to ensure that a life-style situation can also be treated in a normal way if the spouse or partner of a posted staff member is with the posted staff member, and his language skills and qualifications make him fit and ready to work at the foreign representation, so that there is no legal barrier to this. Of course, the application of the spouse or partner will only be possible for the duration of the government official's external service, in the event of the necessary cover and the availability of the work to be carried out or of the job to be completed. The extension of Hungarian jurisdiction to this category of employees is also justified because thus the deduction of tax and other charges on their wage benefits can take place without further difficulties under Hungarian law. Ladies and gentlemen, Under the current rules, the spouse of a government official in a permanent foreign service, if he has taken a job in the host State and took unpaid leave in Hungary with regard to permanent foreign service, did not obtain the period of service required for the pension during the permanent external service of the government official. The new system of legislation will also make it easier for the spouse to obtain a period of service and thus pension rights for the future during his or her time in the field of external service. This solution, I think, is also particularly beneficial from a national security point of view, because in the event that the spouse has undertaken work in the host State, not at foreign representations, he has so far had to waive the exemptions he deserves. [[12.30]] Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the posting of diplomats dealing solely or primarily with European Union policy issues, the right of agreement of the Minister responsible for European Union affairs shall be recorded. In addition, with regard to diplomats dealing with such matters in whole or in part, the rights relating to their preparation and the establishment of their professional examination requirements will also fall under the responsibility of the Minister for EU Affairs. As a result of the amendment, if the Parliament accepts it, the remuneration regime laid down in the Foreign Representations and Permanent External Service Act will be extended to government officials and government administrators assigned to the foreign representation departments of the Minister for Defence's direct subordinate. We are basically talking about military offices in Attaché. It is also on the basis of this bill that we propose to amend the rules for the advance payment of salaries. This service or opportunity will not only be once and not only at the time of the placement, it would be if the Parliament accepted it and it could be requested. It will also be introduced to provide an advance on compensation, for example for annual school tuition fees. This has always been a problem for family colleagues working at foreign representations, when they had to pay in advance tuition fees or kindergarten education fees, causing serious financial difficulties. Now we want to address this problem as well. The bill also allows the leaders of foreign representations, of course with a prior central authorisation and the rules contained therein, to provide support, donations or aid, offer and other commitments without consideration. Unfortunately, there have been several cases, even in the surrounding regions, where, as a result of a natural disaster, the government of the host state or the municipality of the city has turned to foreign representations for help, and due to certain bureaucratic difficulties, it has been very, very difficult to provide minimal assistance. I am thinking here, say, a thousand bottles of bottled water; so we have faced problems of this magnitude. Now we would like to facilitate the possibility of granting such donations, aids, to a certain extent, of course. An important element of the bill is that the amendment will bring it into the amended law for 2017, i.e. the currency and housing, mixed and pre-schooling and schooling expenses funds for next year. These have to be laid down in the Budget Act every year, but given that the 2017 budget was adopted before the Parliament adopted this relevant law, which we are now negotiating to amend, we have not yet been able to incorporate these funds. Therefore, we use the current amendment of the law to allow these funds to be incorporated by next year, 2017. In addition to what I have said here, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a few more technical clarifications are included in the bill in order to ensure that the application of the law in the whole new foreign affairs system is carried out in such a way that we can really pursue a more effective foreign policy, using its expanded toolbox. With all due respect, I would ask the Parliament to discuss this amendment proposal and, if possible, to support it. At the same time, allow me to thank all the parties in Parliament, both in government and in opposition, for their constructive participation in the spring debate in early summer on a law on permanent foreign service and foreign representation containing completely new initiatives. Some of their amending proposals could therefore have been adopted. Thank you for the constructive proposals, and thank you for sharing correctly with us the ideas that enable Hungarian foreign policy with an enlarged toolbox to serve Hungary and the Hungarian economy as effectively as possible. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-08-44	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr Mihály Balla, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-11-08-45	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. Dear Minister, Dear House, The bill before us is very important for those who perform external service. After all, it has always been important for the Hungarian government to protect our country's national interests, to represent it abroad, and diplomacy plays an important role in creating a favourable image of Hungary. This is precisely why the amendments and the new framework law that we adopted in the summer of this year, on 13 June, are important in the foreign representation regulations for the foreign service, so that our diplomats working at stations can work in the best possible and fundamentally more flexible conditions, in a system in which everyone has the right means to do their job. This is precisely why it is important that, once the foreign affairs tasks of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Government have been extended, it is necessary to establish a stable and yet flexible new external service system. With the publication of the law, the toolkit of the Hungarian foreign policy was unified and expanded, which resulted in a more transparent system and several guarantees for the support of the foreign service. Ladies and gentlemen, Before the law was created, we had a number of laws, but for years it was said that a framework law should be established that specifically supports foreign service, foreign relations, diplomatic organisations and our delegations. So we called this the so-called comprehensive foreign policy or foreign affairs law. This is also important because, after all these years, it has finally been achieved this year. I have also seen that during the negotiation process, we have also tabled proposals for amendments and several opinions that have been incorporated into the law. I believe that this will enable us to establish a stronger, faster response capacity at foreign representations. Following the adoption of the law, it has been observed that in life, everyday life, there are challenges or experiences on the basis of which the law itself needs to be refined, in principle technical amendments have to be applied. That's what happened to the law, and that's what's happening now. After all, those technical clarifications and the removal of the various obstacles will now, in principle, be an opportunity in this new package of amendments to make the law itself more applicable when carrying out external service tasks. The amendment itself adapts to a number of life situations where, for example, if the spouse's professional qualifications or skills are adequate, employment at foreign representations will be possible, so there will be no legal barrier. Or it is also very important from this point of view that, where appropriate, the family member or spouse can do a job for which a separate employee should still be employed at the relevant embassy, foreign representations, but they can resolve this, if appropriate, through a spouse. This may not be relevant from an economic point of view. [[12.40]] It is also very important that the amendment includes the refinements that could affect the 2017 budget, as these items can no longer be placed in the budget, but it is also very important that workers at the foreign representation can benefit from kindergarten, schooling costs, so that the establishment of this fund, or even the creation of the housing and mixed-cost funds, is included in the current amendment, as this is very important in the context of the fact that it is a life-like situation for staff working at the foreign representation or for diplomats to organise their family lives there, where appropriate in accordance with the circumstances of another country. I also think that the amendment itself is about that our diplomats working at foreign representations, the professionals working there - whether they are our diplomats delegated by the Ministry of Defence or by the Ministry of European Affairs - can do the very important work that we need to do in order to protect and represent our country's national interests. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is very important to highlight the comprehensive regulation and the fine-tuning of this for all of us, especially for those of us who see what work our diplomats in foreign countries should do, how diverse they are working on our individual embassies. I think it is important that Parliament's parties support them even more in this work with this bill or with the amendment of certain parts of the Foreign Representation Act. Allow me to ask for the support of the other parliamentary parties on behalf of the Fidesz faction, as it is a matter that we all, even within the Committee on Foreign Affairs, consider to be important, that the most important helpers in Hungary's foreign representation, at all, are the government, the country's most important helpers and representatives, our diplomats working at foreign representations. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-11-08-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2016-11-08-47	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. As the speakers before me and Minister Szijjártó pointed out here earlier, given the experience gained from the day-to-day operation and since the bill was adopted in summer, certain amendments are needed and my fellow Member has also highlighted the importance of fine-tuning, which is basically a problem. So this proposal amends two laws. One is the law on foreign representations, which was adopted by the Parliament in the summer. This was done by preventing this from happening for months, and while, by the way, I think that such a law would have made sense if it was about a career in the field of foreign service, so it defines a predictability for those who are actually doing important work for Hungary's external relations and representation, both the Heads of Mission and the Staff, which I think would have made sense. By the way, we abstained on the parliamentary vote of that law because it is not possible to say that it has added anything in particular to the adoption of this law. It is also true that he may not have destroyed too much. But once again, the kind of recklessness that the government touches, doesn't think about it properly, and I think that, yes, everyday operation can give rise to experience, of course. But for my part, I would hope that there are still people in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs who have the decades of experience and experience that they can use, their opinions, their expertise and the opinions of professionals, whether they are now outside professionals, or by consulting the parties, I think that a law on a career in foreign service could have been created that would not otherwise have been immediately touched. I would like to point out that it was such a disappointment in the summer that, when the Foreign Affairs Committee also negotiated the Foreign Representative Act, no representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was present in this debate, so unfortunately we could not continue a meaningful dialogue. It is clear that, by the way, the functioning and effectiveness of the external field and delegations are also something in which there is a need for consensus, but most importantly dialogue. So we also had a lot of concerns about the previous law, and we actually felt that by creating the appearance of busy work we had to put something down on the table, which, by the way, did not mean more predictability and help. In addition, as you said, Minister, there are also changes in the position of manager in relation to medium-level professional qualifications here, and there is a question as to why, unlike the Law on Public Service Officers, it is necessary to create an opportunity for the placement of managers with a secondary education which is not qualified as a professional qualification; and those who are currently seconded government administrators do not need to demonstrate secondary education. In addition, a number of people have highlighted the category of spouse employed by foreign representations, which is now explicitly registered in law, and this is also interesting because the employment of the spouse, in general, let's say, in the case of subordinate diplomats, has been possible so far, so this is a rather strange change, and I think it is not entirely justified why this must be highlighted in law. In addition, by adding to the number of employees, the spouse is also included, thus leading consuls, candidates who are appointed, if they are single, will unfortunately be at a disadvantage in any way against those who otherwise have a spouse. So I think that this can be called discrimination or discrimination in any way, just as the law on foreign representations can, in essence, differentiate between foreign representations at the discretion of the government. There are, therefore, several points in the proposal that actually show a subsequent fabrication. Several mentioned the establishment and establishment of the reimbursement fund. It's really fantastic, we don't see how they're gonna provide the resources for it. Budget 17 has been adopted, and the base numbers are not included in the Finance Act, but in the Foreign Service Act. So the question is, how, for example, will there be resources for this year of, for example, 17 years. Therefore, because of the concerns raised above, the MSZP fraction will not support this amendment. Thank you.
u2016-11-08-48	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask the present representatives of the factions if anyone else would like to take the lead speaker's speech. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any sign-ups, so I'm closing the speaker speeches. Dear Parliament, As the independent Members do not take part in the debate, the speeches will now take place. No one came forward in writing. I give the floor to Mr Béla Turi-Kovács, Fidesz Group.
u2016-11-08-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. This is a short but I believe it is a necessary and effective amendment of the law. It is about the fact that anyone who has seen foreign representation from within also has an idea of how isolated they can work and must work from time to time. Therefore, the gesture and step that brings the family closer to this institution is, I believe, worth a word or two in itself. It means a great deal at one foreign representation - and I don't necessarily mean a European foreign representation, but a Hungarian foreign representation in a distant part of the world - if it encounters a kind of family feeling. [[12.50]] I am convinced that it will help both the commitment and the better work of the workers there. So this is a major step forward. The other thing I asked for was that it was a long time in doubt before me, and I must say frankly, whether the kind of double commitment and activity that includes, on the one hand, foreign representation and, on the other hand, relations with foreign trade could be achieved. I think this shows the government's commitment to further building this duality, and since it has been successful so far, it is obviously necessary to touch it in some smaller places. I have also asked for the floor to make clear what has already been raised on the opposition side as to whether the amendment would be too often. I think that, on the one hand, on the other hand, in a situation where there is essentially a new system, a combination of foreign economy and foreign representations, there are certain issues, new and new problems. Rather, I would urge the government that when such a problem arises, it should not be pushed forward, but it should be brought before the House. For my part, I support the proposal. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-08-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[On the sign of Hungarian Levente:]] Yeah. It is for the Secretary of State of Hungary Levente.
u2016-11-08-51	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Thank you for all your comments. I would like to reflect briefly on the views of Congresswoman Demeter, because they were critical. I will try to give satisfactory answers to the questions that have been raised to the best of my knowledge. Firstly, as regards the introduction of a model of external service careers, as indicated in the previous debate, we intend to do so. For various reasons, we have not yet seen the time for this, but we are working on the possibility of having such a regulation in some form in the coming years. I think that, after this is a decades of restentation that these issues, the functioning of foreign representations and the working conditions of diplomats on the external service have not been resolved, there have been a number of unregulated aspects, and it is certainly welcome and a significant step forward that we have been able to make it this far at all. Once again, after decades - let me not classify these circumstances that existed earlier - there was finally some force and intention to touch this otherwise extremely complex regulatory system. The adoption of the law in 2016 is a milestone in this work, but, of course, further steps will follow from this first measure. My request to the Congresswoman is to look kindly at this attempt to introduce a system that strives to maximise both working conditions and cost-effectiveness for those working at foreign representations. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I think that in the near future there may still be aspects of this - once again - extremely complex problem that need to be regulated by law. We're trying to keep the system fine-tuned. This is not a question because it is a dynamic system that can be settled once and from then on it does not need to be touched. In addition, there is a very practical consideration behind the fact that we are now initiating this technical amendment at the end of 2016. This, in particular, honourable Member, is the fact that the currency, housing, mixed and kindergarten and schooling reimbursement funds for 2017 for which it was not possible to adopt previously, as the original law was negotiated and adopted after the adoption of the 2017 Budget Act. This has certainly had to be addressed, and in order to achieve our political goal, and I think that this is a legitimate strategic effort to bring it closer to the V4 average, unfortunately from the bottom, the pay of our diplomats has made this technical amendment necessary. If we were to apply everything else, we had to do this, simply because the budget law was adopted very quickly - I can say so - in the Parliament, and, of course, a series of regulations were only recorded after that. So my request is that this aspect should be taken into account, that the settlement of benefits and, once again, its approach to the V4 average, because unfortunately, in terms of the average wage level of V4 we are out of line, is a goal that I think can be supported by the MSZP as well. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and He raised the issue of discrimination. I would like to point out that this bill or the amending proposal does not introduce any discrimination against anyone, in terms of marital status or in other respects. Of course, the relief for spouses, because that is ultimately the case, applies to the person when he is in a position to be a relevant measure for his family status. Otherwise, there is nothing worse for a person who does not have a family or who does not have a spouse or who does not have a registered partnership. I am sorry that the MSZP cannot support this amendment. We can live with that, and it doesn't hurt us, but I think it's not a lucky gesture in the eyes of the hundreds of employees who try to stand up to the most diverse points in the world. Once again, this amendment is intended to facilitate their living conditions, their working conditions and their daily work along national interests. I thank all parties who see the good intentions behind this proposal, which is essentially not a political one, but rather a technical one. I am counting on your support in the future, because there will certainly still be important issues to be discussed in this area on this House's table. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-08-52	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 1994 XXXIV on Police. and the general debate on the draft law amending Act C of 2003 on electronic communications until closure. The government referral is T/12714. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-11-08-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill makes a significant contribution to Hungary's security and to the fight against terrorism and organised crime. The submitted bill proposes to amend, in part, the law on police and, in part, the law on electronic communications. Allow me to present the content of the proposal to the Honourable Parliament. A number of classified data are generated in relation to public-law dignitaries, protected persons or facilities for the placement of key public bodies. These include, for example, the architectural design documentation generated during the construction works or data generated in connection with the performance of personal protection tasks. In the interest of the safety of installations, it is appropriate to protect these data. The bill proposes to amend the law on police law, and according to this, these data will not be public for 30 years. Dear Parliament, It is also necessary to amend the law on the police in order to allow the police to handle fingerprints of third-country nationals in order to combat terrorism. Currently, the police can only take fingerprints for the purpose of identifying the identity or comparing the fingerprints with the data stored in the Visa Information System. However, the fingerprints thus recorded may only be handled until the identity has been established and shall be deleted immediately thereafter. Dear Parliament, On the basis of the proposed amendment, the police may, for five years from the date of entry into force, process the fingerprints of those who have not crossed the border of our country at the border crossing point, not at the border crossing point, or who have not been able to prove their identity to the satisfaction of the authorities. [[13.00]] Dear Parliament, Recent events have highlighted the importance of preventing abuse of pre-paid services, and of this prevention. This is the subject of the next part of the proposal, with the aim of tightening up the electronic communications law and the proposal. That is what lies before this House. The amendment is necessary and justified in view of the national security, crime prevention and law enforcement interests of our country, in particular the fight against terrorism. Under the new rules, the subscriber of the service can no longer sell the subscription. Prior to the transfer of a SIM card to a third party, the service provider shall be informed of the identity of the third party, otherwise the service provider may terminate the contract. The provider shall verify and record the subscriber's data in advance. In the absence of a successful verification, the subscriber contract may not be concluded. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill states in a transitional provision that the service provider informs subscribers with a prepaid card that verification of their identity is necessary. On 1 July 2017, contracts for which verification of the identity of the subscriber is not carried out shall be terminated. I respectfully ask the Honourable Parliament and my fellow Members to support the proposed bill, as it also contributes to the security of Hungary, the Hungarian people. I thank you for your attention, and we trust that the proposal, the bill tabled, will be supported by this House. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-08-54	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-11-08-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The bill tabled by the Minister of the Interior, as Mr Secretary said, proposes to amend two laws. On the one hand, with regard to the law on the police, the general rules on police processing and data processing are added to the new provisions, and the proposal would also amend the regulation on facilities that are particularly important for the functioning of the State and for the care of the public. Important guarantee rules will also be included in the regulation. Another amendment to the law on the police can treat the fingerprints of third-country nationals as part of the border police register in order to combat terrorism and hand it over with appropriate rules. In September of this year, it was discovered that a homeless person's name was purchased by organized criminals with 200,000 SIM cards. Part of the cards migrated to members of the terrorist cell implementing terrorist acts in Paris and Brussels. Subsequently, the Ministry of Interior promised to review the existing legislation and propose amendments if necessary. Accordingly, the current proposal to amend Act C of 2003 on electronic communications has been submitted and proposes to amend the regulation and data processing of these SIM cards. In view of Hungary's interests in national security, crime prevention and law enforcement, it is necessary to tighten up existing legislation. The amendment would therefore record that these so-called upload subscriptions cannot be re-valued and that the SIM card allowing the use of the subscriber service may be transferred to a third party if the information required for identification has been provided to the provider prior to the transfer of the SIM card. The provider will be obliged to verify and record the relevant data of the subscriber. In the absence of a successful verification, the subscriber contract could not be concluded in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz fraction supports the bill so that these necessary changes can take effect, because with these modifications the safety risk can be reduced. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-08-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Congressman, please.
u2016-11-08-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The MSZP considers it important to develop and cooperate with real regulation to eliminate the security risk posed by anonymous SIM cards. However, the bill presented by the government in its current form is considered as a fraud or even a scam, a proposal that is professionally inconclusive, morally uncompromising, threatening the safety and life of the Hungarian people, which further deepens corruption. As memorable, the pro-government Hungarian Times reported at the beginning of October about the information previously provided only in closed committee meetings that, in the name of a single homeless person, approximately 200,000 prepaid telephone cards were purchased by organized criminal circles from Magyar Telekom in Hungary. Then the leaders of Fidesz went off on the 200,000 SIM cards as if they hadn't been in control for six years. Yes, it is indeed also the responsibility of the service providers to sell SIM cards to the same person by thousands without being marked to the authorities. But let us ask the question: where have national security services and law enforcement agencies been for years? If these anonymous SIM cards were actually used by organized crime, is it that you didn't notice that organized crime circles were supposed to be being monitored? Who are the Hungarian authorities watching, if not the circles that may need the protection provided by the so-called anonymous SIM cards? In his radio interview, Viktor Orbán said that the question should be asked whether telephone cards can be used in Hungary in such a way that it is impossible to monitor them for national security purposes. The Prime Minister said that this should be discussed directly and openly in Parliament. So let us speak openly and directly here in Parliament, fellow Members. What the government is now putting forward to address this problem is simply a hoax. The huge innovation will be that the service provider will be obliged to verify the identity of the SIM card buyer. The bad news is that the data of the homeless person who bought 200,000 SIM cards used and used by criminals will be consistent with the official records in all 200,000 cases. So with the same participants, business continues to spin, as it has been before. The government bill doesn't change that. Although it was also written in the bill that the SIM card could not be handed over without notification to another person, obviously all organized criminal circles and terrorist groups came together. And what happens if people who buy a hundred thousand SIM cards wired by criminals ignore that rule? Nothing. If you even fail to pass the SIM card, the service provider will terminate the contract within 15 days - that is the penalty. While the criminal or terrorist using the anonymous card for a few calls doesn't even remember having a phone like this 15 days later. In addition to such rules as are contained in this bill, in the summer of 2015, terrorists of the terrorist organization that called itself the Islamic State could have made their phone calls in the same way as they did in a shameful way. Fidesz and the government promised to solve the problem of anonymous SIM cards. However, what has been submitted to Parliament is a big zero; a total surrender of arms to the telecommunications multinationals. It shouts from the proposal that they do not dare or want to restrict the SIM card business of telephone companies that is profitable. However, this puts the safety of Hungarian people at risk. If the government wanted to, they could eliminate the black market for anonymous SIM cards, as there are several ways to do this. The MSZP proposes that telephone operators be subject to a notification obligation similar to that imposed on banks under anti-money laundering laws. In the same way as banks have to report suspicious cash flows, telephone operators should be obliged by law to indicate suspicious mass SIM card purchases. We suggest that service providers should indicate if the same person buys more than 20 prepaid SIM cards within a year. This signal could be made available to the service providers to the Tibetans by the more well-known mosaic name of the Counter-Terrorism Information and Crime Analysis Centre. In addition to such legislation, the authorities would indeed have an insight into the suspicious signs of misuse of SIM cards and would be able to take the necessary measures from a national security point of view. [[13.10]] If the aim is indeed to eliminate the abuse of SIM cards, then the government will withdraw its bill and, for example, present a new law along our proposals. Of course, it is not unthinkable that the proposal for SIM cards is weightless, so to speak, a fake proposal for distraction. Perhaps this is how they want to divert attention from the provision of the proposal that does not make public the data on the functioning of all major public institutions. Of course, in some cases it may be necessary to limit the disclosure of information on important public facilities, as has been the case. However, according to the bill, the regulation is spectacularly and obviously deliberate. Based on this, data on the construction, renovation and operation of public bodies will easily be concealed. All of this creates another opaque channel for pumping out public funds. In this respect, there is even more reason for suspicion that the provisions restricting the public should be again applied to existing procedures. You remember what Fidesz was experimenting with such restrictive provisions, don't you? For example, in the case of the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank, they wanted to prevent it from finding out how the Magyar Nemzeti Bank lost its public money character and enriches the Fidesz friends and relatives. Dear Parliament, This proposal is inoperable. Take it back, and then start thinking about how this huge national security breach could actually be covered. For starters, here's our proposal. Please think about it or bring me a better one. We wish you good work. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-08-58	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Firtl Mátyás, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2016-11-08-59	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment concerning the two laws is in line with the legislative amendment that serves Hungary, the security of the Hungarian people and its ratification. Since the emergence of the migrant crisis, the security of Hungarian people and the security of Hungarian families have been treated as the sole responsibility, consistency and effectiveness of the Hungarian government. Organised and managed migration resettlement, which has threatened Europe for years, has appeared in a threatening manner in Hungary since 2015. We have all seen that hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants have violated Hungary's territory in an illegal, violent, fearsome way, ignoring the Hungarian authorities and Hungarian legislation. In order to restore the Hungarian legal order and protect its citizens, we have built a threefold protection system: a physical, legal and armed defence system. At the same time as the southern border protection built with record speed, we have tightened up our existing legislation and created new protection laws. Among these, we have made legislative amendments, such as the legislation we are discussing, which are required by the increasing threat of terrorism. XXXIV of 1994 on the police force In part, it is necessary to amend Act C of 2003 on electronic communications in order to increase the security of important facilities under constitutional order, national security, criminal prevention. The amendment regulates the availability and disclosure of important data on installations, which also includes the constitutional guarantee by linking the limitation of access to already mentioned data to a maximum period of time. Dear House, Due to the terrorist threat to the whole of Europe, Hungary's defence capacity needs to be increased, which is largely served as part of the amendment to the law, a paragraph relating to the transfer of fingerprints from third countries, according to which it becomes manageable and transferable as part of the border police register. It also serves to combat the terrorist threat in the context of the migrant crisis and to strengthen existing legislation to prevent the misuse of prepaid subscriber mobile network services for national security, law enforcement and prevention purposes. Technically, the amendment ensures the prevention of abuse by identifying users and amending the conditions for checking the identity of subscribers. It is our duty and responsibility to count on the important role of electronic digital devices in the criminalisation, the preparation of terrorist acts, the smuggling of people and the emergence of a further emergency threat to Community security in this era of e-communications. Therefore, crime prevention and counter-terrorism in this area must do everything in their power to ensure legal order and public security. Ladies and gentlemen, The KDNP faction supports the amendment of the law for these reasons, and I respectfully ask my fellow Members, the rest of the Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-08-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Ádám Mirkóczki, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-11-08-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to start very briefly by saying, and overall, I think it will be rather brief that we fully agree with the aim of the bill. What's untenable is that such a security breach is XXI. be present in the 20th century, which has shown itself in terms of the abuse of these ominous SIM cards. However, we already have a debate on whether this proposal removes this security gap, this huge risk. We do not think so, quite simply because there are still loopholes left, leaving just as much time for a person with a subscription as possible to commit a planned crime in a particular case, and also allowing, where appropriate, these important data used in a criminal offence, which means the SIM cards, to pass on, dispose of or simply toss it away. In this way, it will not help the work of the authorities or the work of the secret services. I will also be honest with you that I do not know if there is a design or a legal solution that could eliminate this huge risk once and for all. There are obviously many positions in this, and we will continue to have many debates. I can start from what was said recently at a meeting of the National Security Committee by the head and staff of the National Security Service, who have made it clear that it is impossible to resolve this security breach without harming their interests and it is impossible to close it. And then we get to the dilemma again, like so many times when we talk about such sensitive matters, how far the individual's freedom and the protection of his own rights and personal data goes, and where the country or nation's security lies. I think that, obviously, in some cases, the former is important and in others, the latter. I am saying this because there is probably no perfect version that can handle this in terms of reassuring both sides, but I am suggesting that, and obviously if it does not follow what I say, I will not rather avoid the hot porridge: I would suggest a five-party at expert level in the Ministry of Home Affairs; as we have done in connection with the introduction of the special legal order, as we have done in relation to mobile applications, and what I believe Mr. State Secretary and every faction can prove was effective and effective if parties with parliamentary factions could accept a consensus on such an important issue, whether by means of their experts or by their policy. What I see on this issue is that this has now been cancelled, and obviously not because the Ministry of Interior does not intend to do so, because if I am referring to the five-party negotiations convened by the ministries, I think that the Ministry of Interior is very high in leading this imaginary ranking. [[13.20]] So I would also like to ask the Minister of the Interior, by the Secretary of State, to run at least one of these rounds in this case as well. Obviously, we are trying to make this proposal better, but let us be honest with each other that this is not going to solve this issue, simply because, on the one hand, mobile subscribers are not public authorities, they do not have and do not have the means to guarantee, credible control of subscribers who, where appropriate, should be known to be linked to suspected or real future crimes, so, where appropriate, they are a national security risk. On the other hand, there is no penalty in cases where the subscriber fails to fulfil the obligations that the new legislation requires him to do to the companies of telephone services. But if there is no sanction, then I think that in such cases, effectiveness cannot be expected. This is a little similar to that in many other cases of the Criminal Code, that we do or do not do something in full awareness of our criminal liability. There's no such thing here. There is an obligation to provide personal information and data, but since this should not be done against the authority, I believe that we will not be able to address this security risk in this way. Overall, therefore, we fully agree with the aim of the bill, which is a potential risk to the 21st century. In the century, which in some way... - if it is clearly not possible to guarantee perfectly and 100% of such challenges, but in some way to narrow down the scope of opportunities that are liable to be abused in this respect. And I would also suggest that we try to reach a consensus among the factions - together with the Ministry of Home Affairs and, where appropriate, I would also like to invite the National Security Service staff to such a consultation. Of course, if I understand correctly, amendments can be tabled by Thursday, and we will try to do so... - but I also agree with my colleague from the MSZP who spoke before me that I am obviously looking at it from a different perspective and saying for other political purposes that it might be better not to put it to the vote, but to bring a consensusary proposal to the House and to conduct this debate. But of course, Jobbik was interested in avoiding this rather serious national security risk in some way. So we are open to all discussions, as we have done so far, and, of course, we are trying, with our amendments, to contribute to this being a good proposal. But frankly, we do not think that the current draft will address this problem because of what has already been said, but it is necessary. And I think the Ministry of the Interior is right to address this issue, this problem, but we believe that this will not be enough. So I look forward to the continuation, and we are ready for every discussion in order to improve the country's security in this area as well. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-08-62	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Bernadett Szél, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2016-11-08-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The fact is, I was hoping that the reason why this bill was being submitted and negotiated was because we would receive a very mature and thorough proposal from the Ministry of the Interior. Now, I have to say that the LMP agrees with the objective, so it is obvious that this cannot be a party policy issue, but this particular proposal, which has been born from your pen as a result of the work of the past period, is considered to be delayed and limited. The fact is that I think that the fund - and it should not be mixed with party policy arguments - cannot buy SIM cards in the name of a person in the order of hundreds of thousands in Hungary, can not do that, or any loophole that promotes terrorism must be closed. However, the fact is that this proposal is not enough to achieve this objective. I must add that it is not possible to clear the situation here without harming my interests, that is what was said here, my good fellow Member. I would like to highlight another aspect of this, not necessarily from the perspective of the individual, but rather from the point of view of companies and service providers. The May Other, according to Politics, is a foundation that the business interests of the service providers cannot override the safety requirements of the Hungarian people, and it is the government's duty - and we have an obligation to cooperate in the Parliament to do so - so that business interests do not undermine the work that we have to do against terrorism in today's world. Now, Mr Secretary of State, we will not get ahead of ourselves with the rough bill, although I admit that the direction is good, it is important to deal with this, but it is indeed a delayed bill. To this day, I still don't see exactly how it could have happened that such a mistake could have stayed in the system. And to prevent further mistakes, I consider it more important to draft a more elaborate bill. From this point of view, we are open to producing a complex bill, which then takes out the Irish core to allow such abuses to occur in Hungary, even in the framework of a five-party consultation, in an accurate professional work. And I would also like to mention the international dimension of this issue, so we also need to think that if we achieve results in Hungary, it does not mean that anyone who wants to get a SIM card with, say, terrorist intentions should go to a neighbouring country and, if we do so, should not abuse the security of the Hungarian people here in our country. So I think that this story is far from ending here, and - don't be offended - this is not even a start, because I thought that in that time we would get a more complex proposal here; especially after money seems to be scarce for the government, billions have been spent on the problem of immigration over easy communication campaigns with terrorism. I think that this is the point where it should really be stopped by the fact that, where appropriate, such a bill is approached according to party political interests. I see how many good LMP legislative proposals have fallen victim to the government's defiance that always points to the opposition's proposal, although I think that you should rise above this fault line precisely for the safety of the Hungarian people, and, for example, the amendments that are being tabled should be looked at with a completely different view. I think that you really are responsible for the whole country, that you can't do that by putting such a small truncated bill on the table from the government side, and then maybe the opposition amendments will be canceled. In fact, I would like to go back to the beginning, two steps back, and in a normal professional work we should put down a proposal that can then guarantee security for the Hungarian people. So I can suggest this, underlining that, of course, we agree with the aim, we have repeatedly declared this, but we feel this bill in this form is little, we feel delayed. During the months I had hoped that a more complex work would take place around the Ministry's house, and I would like this to be done within the framework of the Parliament, and we could put together a good bill for everyone. Thank you.
u2016-11-08-64	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. As independent Members do not take part in the debate, no one has submitted a written statement, I ask if anyone wishes to speak yet. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Mr Béla Turi-Kovács, Fidesz Group.
u2016-11-08-65	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President, very briefly. I was very surprised to see the violent outburst we heard from the Socialist Party about the bill. I was also surprised by this because I thought that if there were any objections from the opposition side, they would deal primarily with the issue of private secrets, or perhaps deal with the issues that concern personal rights, perhaps with their records. But it seems that the change is positive in such a way that it is as if the opposition already feels that the legislation must serve full or maximum security. And here I see a kind of, I have to say, movement that doesn't add up at the moment, but it may be in many ways towards each other. It is hardly debatable that the Ministry of Interior intended this bill to create a more controlled and in any case safer situation in the area governed by the law. [[13.30]] I would like to point out from among the rules of the law: I am convinced that if the data that you are asking for now and what you are about to achieve now are at the disposal of the Ministry of the Interior, it will greatly help the work without which security cannot be created. However, there is something to be taken into account: it is not only about guaranteeing security, but also about guaranteeing that the rights that are clearly linked to private secrecy are guaranteed. That's what the law is trying to do. There's another very important part of this thing that should be remembered. The great achievement of today is that the kind of communication that has evolved works, and this communication brings people closer. So I perceive the duality that the Ministry of the Interior has tried to resolve here, and I believe that it is right and well that these conditions are met. I therefore believe that it is right to consider their position on the opposition side and to support the proposal. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-08-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As no further comments have been made, the general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to answer. [[For signal:]] Yes, I'll give the floor to the Secretary of State, who will tell you the closing word.
u2016-11-08-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank the groups and my fellow Members who have given their support to this proposal, including Mr Imre Vas, who, on behalf of Fidesz, and Mr Mátyás Firtl, who, on behalf of the KDNP, and Mr Béla Turi-Kovács, who gave his support on behalf of Fidesz. I hope that this support will continue to be available in the future and in the vote, and will be supported. As far as my fellow opposition Members are concerned, I would like to begin with Mr Tamás Harangozó, who has made an emotionally heated comment on the proposal, calling this proposal a fraud, a scam, a security threat. Dear fellow Member, I regret that he is not here, and I cannot say to his face that the Government, the Ministry of the Interior, was specifically aimed at achieving the greatest possible security on the basis of experience, which is why we have tabled this proposal, and that, by the way, we should take into account the rights of personality that Mr Béla Turi-Kovács rightly called attention to, because if this proposal had been pushed in the other direction, we would have been given the idea of how anti-democratic this proposal is. I think that we should clearly state the government's intention in this case, namely to eliminate these abuses and thus improve security, the security of the Hungarian people, and reduce the risk of terrorism to a minimum, to zero. So that was the aim, which is why the proposal for this part of the bill was made. Mr. Beller demanded that we withdraw it, didn't he? We will not withdraw this proposal because, once again, the aim is to create a good law, a law that provides greater security here in Parliament together. I would like to thank Mr Adam Mirkóczki for his contribution, who said that he agrees with the goals and aims and proposes a five-party. This proposal was also formulated by Mrs Bernadett Szél as a representative of the LMP. I can say that this proposal will be considered and forwarded to Minister. But I think that until this issue is resolved - and I would like to say here that it is the practice of the Ministry of Interior to negotiate with the parliamentary parties so that we can adopt the best proposal and submit it to Parliament - so until a decision has been made on this issue, I urge my fellow Members that, if they know better, they know a better solution, we are open to it. I therefore believe that this proposal can be improved by presenting the amendments. We are open to this because we believe that security is a national issue. We have said this several times, and we are willing to consider any proposal in this respect or to do so in substance, as we did at Hst. and other laws. Once again, we consider it important to present the best possible proposal for the safety of the Hungarian people, Hungary, or to accept it in Parliament. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, I would like to thank you for the balanced opinions expressed in the debate. And I can say to Mr Bell, that I reject your proposals or your assessment, which you have said emotionally and unwarrantedly about the bill. We are also confident that, together with the amendments, we will be able to adopt a good law. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-08-68	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law on the publication of an enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Kazakhstan, of the other part, will follow. Government referral T/12724. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Csepreghy, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-11-08-69	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, The purpose of the bill before you is to promote the deepening of relations between the European Union and Kazakhstan, and thus between Hungary and Kazakhstan. As a result, the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement currently establishing a framework for relations between the European Union and the Republic of Kazakhstan entered into force in 1999. In the period since then, the development of trade and economic relations between the European Union and the Republic of Kazakhstan has led the Republic of Kazakhstan to become the number one partner of the European Union within the Central Asian region. I would just like to mention a few examples of this. About 40% of Kazakh's external trade flows are directed to the European Union. The Republic of Kazakhstan is the third largest exporter of oil exported to the EU market after Russia and Norway between Member States of non-oil exporting countries. More than one third of the foreign capital accumulated in the Kazakhstan economy is made up of investments from the European Union. In addition to the dynamic development of bilateral economic and trade relations, regional and global developments affecting the Central Asian region have strengthened the need for active regional and international engagement of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as the deepening of EU cooperation on foreign and security policy, the need to rethink bilateral cooperation frameworks between the EU and the Republic of Kazakhstan nearly twenty years after the entry into force of the original partnership cooperation and agreement. The new enhanced Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States and the Republic of Kazakhstan was signed in Astana on 21 December 2015. The entry into force of the Agreement is subject to ratification by all EU Member States, including Hungary. The agreement is also of particular importance for the political and economic participation of the European Union in Central Asia. The agreement will establish a more effective relationship between the European Union and the Republic of Kazakhstan by strengthening political dialogue and developing cooperation in a wide range of fields. It includes EU standard political clauses on human rights, international criminal courts, weapons of mass destruction, arms and light weapons and the fight against terrorism. It also covers legal cooperation, the rule of law, terrorism, the fight against organised crime and corruption. The Agreement also includes trade-related provisions which create a more favourable regulatory environment for companies operating in the Republic of Kazakhstan, thereby providing them with economic benefits. The agreement provides for the highest preferential treatment for each other and for cooperation in the fields of health, environmental protection, climate change, energy, taxation, education and culture, employment and social issues, science and technology and transport. [[13.40]] Dear Parliament, Allow me to say a few thoughts about Hungarian-Kazakh relations as well. Hungary was among the first to recognise the independence of the Republic of Kazakhstan on 26 December 1991. In recalling recent events, the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry was established in May 2012 as well as the Kazakh Business Council of Kazakhstan-Hungarian. Under the Education and Science Agreement signed in November 2013, we receive a mutual 45-45 scholarship student each year. The development of bilateral relations is also well demonstrated by the agreement reached with Prime Minister Viktor Orbán on the establishment of a strategic council during President Nazarbayev's visit to Budapest in 2015. The inaugural meeting of the Hungarian-Kazakh Strategic Council took place in Astana on 17 October 2016 in the framework of the last fifth meeting of the Hungarian-Kazakh Intergovernmental Committee for Economic Cooperation. The Hungarian-Kazakh Financial Fund, established on 31 March 2016, plans to make capital investments in the Kazakh agricultural sector, such as food production, processing and distribution, animal farming and processing, the production and marketing of agricultural machinery, and also for the Hungarian corporate sector. For the World Exhibition in Astana in 2017, Hungary also officially indicated its willingness to participate and its commitment to assist in preparations. According to the 2015 data, the Republic of Kazakhstan is Hungary's 58th most important trading partner. The Community of Independent States is ranked 4th and remains our biggest partner in Central Asia. The bilateral trade flows increased by 7.3 percent between January and July 2016 compared to the same period in the previous year and amounted to 101.2 million dollars. Our foreign trade surplus amounted to $33.2 million between January and July 2016, so we hope that the agreement will be a further step towards the further development of economic and political relations between the Republic of Kazakhstan and Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-08-70	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Bartos, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-11-08-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! As Mr Secretary of State has said, the large-scale proposal before us, which summarises the framework of partnership and cooperation between the European Union and its Member States and the Republic of Kazakhstan, covers almost all areas of life. It includes provisions on human rights, legal cooperation, the rule of law, trade, which provide a favourable regulatory environment for Kazakhstan businesses, but also supports progress in transport, science, health, environment, energy and the social sphere. It promotes the fight against terrorism, organised crime and corruption with the aim of peace and security. But to strengthen relations and find and strengthen a number of forms of cooperation, it is not new for Hungary and Kazakhstan. In November of the previous year, I was the one standing before you when we held a general debate on the proposals for the publication of the Convention on the Transfer of Convicted Persons, the Convention on Extradition and the Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters. Then I spoke about the natural values and the potential of a multi-ethnic, multi-ethnic, 16 million population. I also told you about our economic relations. I said then that on the basis of the 2013 data, Kazakhstan is the third most important economic partner in Hungary, among the CIS countries. This has since been confirmed by the 2015 data. I also told you that MOL is the most important investor in the Kazakh market. In terms of gas and oil reserves in Kazakhstan, it is among the top ten countries in the world, so there is no small possibility that the Hungarian oil company has been present in the country since 2004 and has invested almost $200 million in exploration of gas and oil fields. The latter test drills were also successful. We have found a field that could form a significant reserve of MOL. As I said earlier, Kazakhstan is Hungary's strategic partner, with a wide range of cooperation between the two countries. This includes agriculture. It is therefore welcome that the Kazakhstan-Hungarian Agricultural Investment Fund, which finances specific agricultural projects, has started its operation in the past period. It was also established, as Mr State Secretary said, a Kazakh-Hungarian Financial Fund, in which both parties invested a starting capital of 10 to 10 million dollars. A few weeks ago, on 17 October, the Strategic Council was established to strengthen economic cooperation between the two countries. The primary task of the Hungarian-Kazakh Strategic Council is to review strategic issues, to develop proposals and recommendations for progress. In addition, attention will be paid to the development of bilateral economic relations, the possibilities of involving national and international resources. A year ago, I was pleased to report that, as we had already appeared in Kazakhstan, for example, in 2015, we held exhibitions in the food industry, construction and oil industry, so we would like to continue to ensure our presence in the future, one of the outstanding stops of which is the World Exhibition in the capital of Kazakhstan in 2017. I can confirm this good news now, in which serious progress has been made, as Minister Mihály Varga visited the Astana World Exhibition in October. This is a major urban development project, which is implemented at 170 hectares, and where interested people can learn about energy and renewable energy projects and developments, as well as tourism and art programs. The Expora is expected to receive nearly 5 million visitors, so our appearance there will be a good opportunity to present and inform our country. However, when we talk about Kazakh-Hungarian relations, we cannot limit ourselves to economic segments. During his visit, Minister Mihály Varga said that a pedagogical centre will be set up in Almati, which will work under the professional management of the Pető Institute, and this is just one of the cooperation beyond the economic dimension. The kun-kippchák connections linking the Kazakh-Hungarian people, cultural, historical and related ties in the Kazakh community are widely and deeply rooted. I am a member of the Hungarian-Kazakh Friendly Group of the Interparlamental Union, and as a former student of the Mándoky College of the Lakitelek Folk College, as a good friend of the widow and son of István Mándoky Kongur, I am pleased to report to my fellow Members that primary school No 154 in Almati bears the name of the well-known cheerleader researcher István Mándoky Kongur. The tradition of the institution is the deeper study of the work of the name giver and the education and care of the links between our peoples. Another example of living memory is that Almatiban Street also holds the name of István Mándoky Kongur. I thought it was important to say all of this so that we could see that the proposal before us to strengthen partnership and cooperation between the European Union and its Member States and the Republic of Kazakhstan does not hang as a foreign body on the relations of our countries, but strengthens it and puts it on a new footing. That is why I ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-08-72	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Árpád Velez, the lead speaker of the group of the MSZP. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-08-73	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, On 13 April 2011, the Council adopted a decision authorising the European Commission to negotiate an enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement between the European Union and Kazakhstan. Negotiations on the Agreement started in June 2011. The EU and Kazakhstan initialled the Agreement on 20 January 2015. [[13.50]] Following the adoption of a Council Decision on the signing, on behalf of the European Union, and provisional application of the Agreement on 26 October 2015, the Agreement was signed on 21 December 2015, subject to its conclusion at a later date. The enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement with Kazakhstan is an important step towards greater political and economic participation by the European Union in Central Asia. The agreement will establish a more effective relationship between the European Union and Kazakhstan by strengthening political dialogue and developing cooperation in a range of fields. As regards its content, the Agreement builds on three key areas: political dialogue and cooperation, foreign and security policy, trade and business and sectoral cooperation. The Agreement is concluded for an indefinite period and may be terminated with a notice period of six months. From its entry into force, the Agreement replaces the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Kazakhstan, of the other part, signed on 23 January 1995. The agreement includes EU standard political clauses on human rights, international criminal courts, weapons of mass destruction, SALW and the fight against terrorism. It also covers legal cooperation, the rule of law, the fight against terrorism, organised crime and corruption. The Agreement also includes trade-related provisions which provide a more favourable regulatory environment for businesses operating in Kazakhstan, thereby providing them with economic benefits. The agreement envisages cooperation in the fields of health, environment, climate change, energy, taxation, education and culture, employment and social issues, science and technology, and transport. The agreement represents an important step towards greater political and economic participation by the European Union in Central Asia. In agreement with this, the MSZP parliamentary group supports the adoption of the bill. Thank you.
u2016-11-08-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Tibor Bana, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-11-08-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Jobbik welcomes the establishment of a strengthened partnership and cooperation agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Kazakhstan, and we hope that the treaty will be filled with substance. Since the so-called Eastern Opening Programme of the Government, relations and trade between Hungary and the Republic of Kazakhstan have intensified, this must be acknowledged. In 2013, there was also a trading house in the country, but it has not been much heard of lately. In fact, Minister Mihály Varga did not mention this in a statement in October, as he expects future successes only from the Hungarian-Kazakh Investment Fund and the Hungarian-Kazakh Strategic Council. In the past, at the meeting of the Committee on European Union Affairs, we have already received information on national trading houses within this framework, but it would be good to hear a similar report in the near future, including an assessment of their effectiveness. In recent years, it has been found that several billion-dollar losses have been made by the trading houses, after spending 5.5 billion forints between 2013 and 2015, only 2.8 billion forints were sold. On the other hand, in September we read news that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade plans to open seven new offices. So it would be nice to finally see clearly in this area as well. That's what I'm asking of the Secretary of State. I would also like to ask that, at the meeting of the Committee on European Affairs, we again receive appropriate professional information on this matter. Returning to the concrete proposal before us, we consider it important, for our part, as a national opposition party, that the relationship between the two countries should be enhanced not only in economic but also in cultural areas, since Kazakhstan and its region are also extremely rich in cultural treasures. We will also strive to do so if we are given the government's authority after the elections in 2018. I trust that the agreement before us will have a positive impact on Hungarian-Kazakh relations. We will work on this with our own tools. In all relevant international forums, we have always expressed our views in this direction, as we have made it clear many times that the Eastern opening policy - if it is consistently and faithfully represented by the government - can, of course, be supported, but these guarantees would also be necessary for this, and the particular report I referred to in the context of the trading houses. Of course, the bill for publishing the agreement before us can be supported by the Jobbik Group. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-08-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Independent Members shall not take part in the debate. No one has spoken in advance in writing. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone wants to take advantage of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed and I will ask Mr State Secretary if he wishes to reply. [[Nándor Csepreghy: No.]] Mr. Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to make a closing statement. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The 1997 LXXVIII on the shaping and protection of the built environment for the extension of the scope of the simple notification and further reduction of bureaucracy in the field of construction follows. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Government referral T/12723. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Csepreghy, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-11-08-77	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Another element of the government's home-building policy can be found in this bill, and we are here to take another step to facilitate housing and construction. It is worth recalling here that, as a result of the decisions taken last year by the Parliament, in the case of residential property with a total surface area of 300 sq m, the builders had essentially one notification obligation instead of the previous authorisation procedure, the result of which is already reflected in the statistical figures, since in 2015 a total of 6500 building permits were issued, until today, 13 258 announcements were made by the builders, which means that this change did have a positive effect on the construction industry. We believe that the government's housing policy or home-building policy was strongly supported by this decision. Over the past few months, the question has been raised as to why builders can only apply this rule in the case of new apartments. It has been proposed that, in the case of enlargement and conversion, if the total square metre does not exceed 300 square metres, the same option can be used, and the proposal before you proposes this in particular. We believe that the scope of rationalisation also includes the question of how a residential building can be built on the basis of a simple announcement, but a permit for landscaping directly connected to it should be requested. Here you can see that there is also a debate on the problems that have arisen, which opposition representatives in Parliament have already raised in the first debate, and then various professional organisations have done so in feedback and do not consider this justified. Therefore, the government proposes that in this case the related landscaping and supporting works may be carried out within the framework of a simple notification obligation. Dear Parliament, New needs bring new questions to life. We need to think about how if the expansion of an existing house does not end after ten years. So we would like to deal with any buildings that have been started, but for some reason have not been completed, in order to keep as few torsos as possible in the country. [[14.00]] We do not want to apply the total demolition pressure for new houses in the case of enlargement, because it cannot be justified that the dismantling of the existing house will create a situation less favourable than the original one. In the case of extension of existing dwellings, the withdrawal shall be limited to such a level that it does not jeopardise the stability of the original condition and does not impede its use as intended. [[The chair is occupied by Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.István Ikotity is replaced by Nándor Gúr.]] The proposal also includes two minor amendments, at the same time customer-friendly and leading to bureaucracy reduction. One ensures that the Budapest and Pest County Engineering Chamber, which controls energy certificates, can not only apply the random control so far, but also control and sanction on the basis of a public announcement. Thus, the public is not only able to enforce its interests by court, but also in the event of an experience of abuse in certification. According to the other, in the case of irregular construction activities detected and recorded in the minutes during official controls, the authority should immediately initiate the procedure instead of the 90-day deadline so far, and the official control should not exceed 60 days. All in all, the bill before you will therefore implement (1) the possibility of the responsible, free activity of builders and professional operators in the simpler announcement; (2) it will contribute to faster and better quality construction; (3) finally, it will ensure that sufficient public supervision is in place. Mr President, Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-08-78	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I salute my fellow Members. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Dénes Galambos, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-11-08-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, An important amendment to the law that defines and affects people's daily lives lies before us. As the Secretary of State pointed out in his expozee, the introduction of a simple announcement of new residential buildings brought about a considerably simpler system to replace the previous authorisation procedure as of 1 January 2016, for the time being - until we adopt this bill - for new residential buildings not exceeding 300 square meters of useful floor space. What was also important was that the earlier, more complex SCF system, the construction authority system, was replaced by the uploading of it into the electronic construction log. By doing so, we have managed to introduce this bureaucracy reduction system for new-built apartments, and at the same time it is in the interest of builders. In my constituency, I am pleased to see that, taking advantage of the opportunity to build new homes based on the family home-building discount, new electronic options and the construction log are making better use of the builders. The construction of new dwellings is already happening in the settlements this year, depending on the growth of the land population. Of course, it is very important that citizens who wish to expand or undertake restructuring should not be burdened with excessive bureaucracy, since there is no reason to discriminate between building new houses and enlargements or restructurings. It is therefore timely, as Mr Secretary of State has indicated, that, even in the case of the expansion of existing buildings, citizens should not have to run unnecessary official circles and should likewise use the system that now seems to be working well, based on practical experience. The aim of the proposal is, in short, to further reduce the administrative burden on residential buildings by building on the positive experience so far. At present, according to the simple announcement, new housing houses can be built, as I said earlier. A significant proportion of existing residential buildings require expansion and conversion, which overall does not reach 300 sq m. These works can currently be carried out on the basis of a building permit, but on their scale, in their technical expectations, they do not pose a greater challenge than newly built apartments. The simple announcement has given more and more emphasis to control, design supervision, which is basically the basis for reducing administration and ensuring better quality. Experience has shown that increased design involvement, design management and strict planning requirements provide an opportunity for further administrative reduction. Such an area is the institution of the change notification, according to which a regular departure from the notification can be made if the builder makes repeated changes to the changes, even if all the rules of the change are observed and the useful floor space of the building does not exceed 300 square meters. No one checks the content of this at the time of the announcement, but only the designer foreman provides control in advance. In line with social needs, professional feedback, it is proposed that the extension of existing residential buildings, as I indicated, may be carried out on the basis of a simple notification, provided that the useful surface area during the enlargement does not exceed 300 square metres. This not only exempts builders from the authorisation procedure, but it is also expected to stimulate the modernisation of the existing building stock. The current design requirements for a simple announcement and the mandatory design management provide a better basis for the construction of better-quality buildings in residential buildings of less than 300 square meters than has been the case so far under the rules of the licensing procedure. According to the provisions of the authorisation for this scope, the construction could, in the so-called basic case, be carried out on the basis of the authorisation plan, and no more detailed technical documentation was required. The practice has shown that in many cases the execution may not have been carried out in an appropriate capacity in the absence of appropriate plans, even though the formal rules have been complied with. The proposal resolves the frequent conflicting situation that the construction of the residential building can be carried out on the basis of a simple announcement and, as the State Secretary has indicated, the field work may not be carried out. The related spatial planning and support works can also be carried out within the framework of the simple notification, as they form a technical unit with the building. There has also been a concern that, in the case of existing buildings, if they are not completed within 10 years - and I also refer to the introduction of the State Secretary - compulsory dismantling should only be such that there is no less favourable situation than the original situation. Therefore, enlargement-based houses are proposed to be broken down only to the extent and in such a way as to ensure the stability and protection of the residual part for use as intended. In addition to the above, the amendment will help to ensure that official controls are carried out during the 60-day period and that the procedure for the application of the consequences of the irregularities detected is initiated immediately, thereby reducing the duration of the uncertainty for the client, the continuation and termination of the execution activity can take place as soon as possible. The Law on Construction No 38/C. The addition of paragraphs 6 to 7 ensures that checks and penalties may also be carried out on the basis of a notification to the general public. Thus, the public will not only be able to enforce their interests by court if they experience abuse during certification. The Minister of State also indicated to the Budapest and Pest County Chamber of Engineers, the BPMK the right to carry out a more thorough inspection of suspicious, unparalleled certifications, speeding up the direct sanctioning process. Further sanctions will ensure that the number of abuses is reduced and the quality of certificates is improved. Dear House, On the basis of the practical experience gained in the constituency, I welcome personally, as a lead speaker, the proposal for a law, which meets the legitimate needs of the public and which provides friendly and positive support to the builders, which lies before us. I would like to ask you to support the adoption of the bill after the completion of the detailed discussion phase, on the basis of what has now been said in the general debate. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-08-80	Thank you very much, Congressman Pigeon. I now give the floor to Mr István Józsa, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. [[14.10]]
u2016-11-08-81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Basically, it is a positive objective to carry out simplification legislation in the field of construction in the government and parliament, especially in residential buildings, thus facilitating the work of those wishing to build and helping to build more and more new homes in Hungary. This is necessary because I think 2012 was the year when we managed to catch up with XX. The bottom of the century, the figure of the 1911 construction of the new apartment - if I remember correctly, 800 new apartments were handed over. I'm saying the numbers from memory, so I just want to stress the nature of the need to boost housing. It is also positive, although we do not have much experience of what this means in the case of new construction, that it is sufficient to notify, and trusting in greater planning involvement, which is quite rightly required by this regulation, that at the end of it, buildings are actually created that can be granted permission to use. So I think that there aren't enough cases yet to really appreciate this. There is a concern that too much responsibility will be transferred to the designer, the designer's involvement. What if it turns out at the end that the tens of millions of residential properties are already there, that the designer thought differently than the licensor used to judge, and that these problems should be clarified in the case of the existing building? As a Naive citizen, I would suggest that this even exacerbates the possibility of corruption, because until someone is granted permission and God gives you no permission, even with the lubrication, you will leave the area and switch to another territory. If, on the other hand, you have already built an object worth up to 100 million forints in the lucky case, you already feel a greater urge to allow it at any cost. So, as they say on Pest Street, the della press a little bit, which is an undesirable phenomenon in such a licensing process. So this part, I think, doesn't have enough experience. The other thing that my colleague, Dr. Galambos, mentioned in his introduction, is the approach that is being put forward here, so that not only the new construction, but also the transformation of existing residential buildings or the expansion of them up to 300 square meters, can achieve similar notification simplicity, according to his statement, there is no reason to distinguish. I would argue with that, there is reason for distinction - if I were to put it very simply, then life is a danger. So it can be life-threatening to transform a residential property, which was built half a century or a hundred years ago, in such a way that it is not properly regulated, regulated in advance authorisation plans, what, how, how it is broken down, how it is controlled and how it is expanded. So this legal simplification, that there is no reason to distinguish, is technically unlikely to hold up, because there are cases in which there is a need to distinguish. So this simplification, in our opinion, carries risks. They want to decide on the announcement and the subsequent process in a government decree, which is a standard approach at the level of legislation and legislation, to describe the details later, but if these details are written down, I would like to point out that, at the time of the transfer, the assessment of the original static status and the confirmation of this will in any case be of sufficient importance among the licensing criteria, because this could be serious problems. I don't want to paint the devil on the wall, but in short, it's a life risk. The other is that the designer is entrusted with a lot of decision points about a building. I could say jumping into the dark, because there's a lot of designers. It is a commendable thing that the Budapest and Pest County Engineering Chambers get such serious licenses - I have a very good opinion about the operation of the Chamber, not only because I am a member of it, but also know its operation, and within the framework of their professional forums, I have been able to make sure that their work is being carried out at an ever-increasing professional level - and the chances of getting hit by an experienced designer or career-starting designer are quite different, and this will only be revealed at the end of the construction. This is what I'm saying: if someone with a career-starting designer, who already, say, has a driver's license based on the bar list, but didn't do a lot of construction, it's a little bit like jumping into the dark, and then, in the end, we find out where they're going. So there's a risk of mitigation, of this story. Here, as I mentioned, the designer is not certain that there is a manageable risk, so it may be an excessive risk, but also to the already mentioned Budapest and Pest County Engineering Chamber, who somewhere assumes responsibility not only for his direct control activity, which may already be one of the official powers, but also at the level of establishing the register. There is an area on which we want to put forward a concrete amendment proposal, and this is the transitional provisions in terms of construction. It is not unviable that, if this simplification, let's say for the transformations, there is a case that has been rejected several times before, which is why the builders have set aside, now they are going to take out what they have not been given permission to do before, and they will surely find a suitable designer, who, with a small transformation, will develop the opinion that this is working, and in the end, we will find out that what was previously rejected several times by the authority is being built, and then what is. So I believe that these transitional cases, which have already been authorised and rejected once, need to be developed within the framework of the simplified regulation. Under the current rules, the Budapest and Pest County Chamber of Engineers operates an independent control system for energy certificates. This, by default, is a very modern system, this third party system works effectively in the world's developed area, where independent experts really give them independence, neither the builder nor the authority to accept pressure, in this respect a real technical opinion, so what is currently being held in the AMI or other TÜV professional apparatus district, they can judge in a broader way who can issue such certificates. So far, energy certificates selected at random each year have been checked; from now on, the law says that they can check any issued certificate, which is basically a shift towards safety in regulation. In addition, the Budapest and Pest County Chamber of Engineers will be given a direct sanction against practitioners and contractors: they can also use warnings, fines, suspension of the professional right to continue their activities, prohibition of continuing their activities, and requirements for training and re-examination. [[14.20]] This is a very strong, very serious driver's license, so it requires a very serious apparatus. I think that's what the Chamber can do, but the regulator has to be careful who checks the inspector, because the law doesn't give this chamber authority, and nobody can control him professionally, override him. So this, the possibility of a second degree, must be considered. A change is proposed that if the construction monitoring authority checks and finds irregularities, it will be 60 days instead of 90 days to initiate the procedure for measures. It's a targeted thing. Once again, it is a question of capacity to do so. Under the current rule, construction activities are unlawful if the construction activity subject to simple notification is carried out differently from the notification of the notified change to the extent specified in the Government Decree. Instead, it will be illegal to carry out this construction, expansion and transformation beyond the total useful surface area of 300 sq m. It is feared that this is excessive simplification. It is not quite clear how long the government has been preparing for this amendment. There is the impact of certain professional negotiations, T/12475 on the amendment of certain laws affecting the reduction of administrative bureaucracy. Chapter 15 of bill No 27-28 § has already included many of the amendments. The proposed amendment closing a detailed debate by the Judicial Committee leaves these rules. It seems that the new licenses of the Chamber of Engineers have been negotiated over the past period, which may still be in the background, because the bill that has just been tabled has been added to the previous one. It should be noted that both proposals were submitted by your minister, János Lázár, so it is strange that this is how it is built on one another. The explanatory statement states that there is a significant social need to expand the scope of construction activities subject to simple notification, to expand existing residential buildings and to transform them into support structures. The conversion has been subject to authorisation only if the support structure has been affected, otherwise it has been subject to notification. It is a professional question of the consequences of the simple announcement of enlargement in existing buildings, whether the protection of the structure or the protection of life at the expense of safety. It is not clear how it affects the safety of buildings if they deviate from the notification implementation documentation during the simple notification, for example, the floor area is increasing. Under the current rules, this should be subject to a change notification. The authority will examine only the notification, not its content, and will expect any irregularities to be discovered and the inspection of the construction. The amendment terminates the institution of the change notification with this reference. The modifications do not make the construction activity illegal unless the magician exceeds 300 square meters. So, overall, we do not see the reduction of corruption risks - on the contrary: it is increasing - and the reduction in the risk of the safety of living and property in buildings. We believe that this simplification increases the risk and that additional measures are needed to keep it at an appropriate level. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-11-08-82	Thank you, Congressman Józsa. I give the floor to Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Madam Messenger, you have the floor. [[Attila Gelencsér takes his place in the notary seat.]]
u2016-11-08-83	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I tell you frankly, I am a little embarrassed that I must now comment on this bill, because, as my fellow Member Józsa has just said, we had a debate on this proposal two weeks ago in this House, only then did not you sit here, but Mr Zoltán Kovács, State Secretary. So now it is safe to press the replay button, and what I said two weeks ago could be played back from the tape recorder, so that the patience of this House does not have to be used unnecessarily, but if it is possible, and if you do not have to listen to my comment, Mr Zoltán Kovács, State Secretary, I ask you to do so with patience. I repeat the arguments I made back then. So the whole story started when Antal Rogán became Minister. On a gloomy day in December, soon after he took his ministerial oath, despite the fact that the Prime Minister's Office had held a long consultation with the various chambers, as we have heard here, Étv has come up with many questions. At one point, the Minister, who would not otherwise have been empowered - which would otherwise not have been in charge of the subject - submitted this bill and its amendment on constructions below 300 sq m. And this House accepted it with exceptional urgency, in practically 24 hours. He introduced this in Hungarian law history quite unique, let us say, counter-revolutionary proposal. Why am I saying this? Because the last 26 years have meant a very serious change in Hungarian construction history, even in settlement planning and spatial planning. Thus, new concepts have been created, former institutions have ceased to exist, new institutions have been created, and legislation has been created after a very long, hard work and a struggle with many struggles and loss of interest, as it has been established in Hungary today. Why was this trip so long? Let me say this for a sentence, because I think it should also be said in the Hungarian Parliament. I believe that some of the leaders of the settlements of SZDSZ have benefited from certain interests, which, in the case of legislation relating to construction, played a specific role in disorder and confusion, because, at the time of wild capitalism, it was not intended to have transparency in this otherwise extremely important sector, which is of great importance for the national economy, and, on the other hand, to legislate at all times and clearly for the interests of the community. Thus, not only the OTRT, the national settlement law, the law of each priority zone, but also the Étv itself. was born quite late for a change of regime. So it was difficult for a municipality to find out what permissions or obligations it could impose on a builder in its own local construction policy or regulatory plan. But it happened, the system was built, sort of, but it worked. It did have shortcomings and difficulties, but it was a functioning system. Obviously, fine tuning would have been necessary. In this, let's put it this way, Minister Rogán trotted into this step. I do not dispute that if someone has a plan to build, they have a difficult and hard journey ahead of them to make sure that the clumps and pitfalls of the offices, so to speak, bypass them and jump them, but they have certain laws to protect the interests of the entire community. [[14.30]] Thus, a local construction policy could impose 21-22 points on a mandatory basis until December 2015, which must correspond to a building, not only the height of the building, not only the level indicator, the mandatory green surface or whatever, and so on, to a percentage of installation, but also, where appropriate, to the colour of a particular building, which building materials can be used, and so on. A total of four of these very many criteria remain, which must be taken into account in the simplified notification. However, this entails both damage to the protection of the settlement image and damage to customer rights. At that time, in the debate at that time, we explained in detail that this is indeed a very bad direction, which the government has now taken on as a result of various internal battles; it is not a good direction. Thank God, in 2016, there was a municipal law, a law on the protection of the settlement image, which would have tried to rearrange this system or this derailment in some way and give the original frameworks again; it is true, not in the manner required by the local construction regulations, but in a different framework, but in any case the community could have taken control of its fate again. I add, and this is also a question to the Secretary of State, where is the government decree promised in June 2016, which is the order to implement the Municipal Picture Act? Because it's nice and good that we have such a law to protect the overall image of our individual settlements, but in any case it doesn't mean anything if there's no executive order to it, which opens up this right to clarify what you can live with or because you can't. The other is the question of customer rights, which is still unclear, because the fact that the construction of a house in a neighboring house or in a neighboring property begins and the owners of the property surrounding it do not know anything about what will happen, how big, how wide, how long it will be built next to them, and how much it will disturb them, I think that is a very wrong direction, and because this is not the Ket. It was established in the course of the administrative procedure in accordance with the law and therefore has no place to appeal, no one to complain to, because a law provides that right. In a sense, what you have just presented to us here is a logical step, a logical consequence of the fact that if you can build up to 300 square meters of net space without a building permit, without an official permit, you can expand it, transform it and do the rest of the groundwork and, if necessary, build a back wall up to 300 square meters. However, this problem, this situation, which, in many cases, can be degenerated, would not only be solved but also deepened, because it will really open up the gate to all constructions in practice, which can happen today in the life of a small settlement in Hungary. So I don't think we can support this kind of direction, just like we've never done before. You would have put this proposal in the law on bureaucracy two weeks ago, unless it had been taken out, saying that there is a lot of trouble in building procedures, and now I am simplifying your position, and this needs to be straightened out, making it easier for people to process and travel. Then Zoltán Kovács argued that it was removed because Étv. has a comprehensive amendment in progress and that this will be settled in another law. Now, I thought, finally, here's the long-awaited proposal that might sort things out and go back to the original ideas, the original route, only simplifying it overall and making it more transparent for citizens overall. Because there is no doubt that if someone wants to build in Hungary today, then some 70 laws, 70 laws and government regulations must comply, it is too much. It's opaque, it's extremely tricky, and it could really be an opportunity for abuse, but I certainly didn't think it was Étv. a comprehensive amendment means that what you put into a law two weeks ago will be taken out and put into a new law, a little more enriched, with a few moments added to it again. So I think this is a bad way to go. This huge task remains before the government to put order in the jungle of building legislation, but in such a way that it is fair, it is for the benefit of the public, and that it does not take the freedom to establish regulations out of the hands of the municipalities and limit them in any sense. And finally, I ask you once again, Mr Secretary, where is the government decree on the protection of the settlement image. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-08-84	Thank you very much, notary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I'll see if anyone else wants to comment. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed and I give the floor to the Secretary of State, who clearly wants to respond to what has been said in the debate. You have the floor.
u2016-11-08-85	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Members, Allow me to respond to the critical points and thank you for the support of Fidesz. The points raised by Congressman Józsa: when we started this whole amendment on the amendment of the laws on construction and the various rules, the aim was for the government to take into account two aspects: how more housing will be, how more home building can be supported and how it can be done with less bureaucracy. This fits into a large package that has already been mentioned by the Member, the whole reduction of bureaucracy, which needs to clarify the relations between the whole state, the citizens, and the public companies. Indeed, these questions, which you raise, are legitimate questions, Mr President, about what will be the guarantee, what is the legal guarantee that what is being built will indeed be built in the way that the rules lay down, so that if there is no licensing role for the agencies, it has a role to take note of. On the one hand, there are the guarantees that design and contractor management throughout the life cycle of the project, with adequate safeguards for the builder, that if for some reason there is a condition that what he has built does not comply with the rules, he should at least have a financial guarantee from the engineers signing the design and supervising the execution that it has a financial guarantee. This should have a financial structure in its background, which gives the assurance that if there really is a mistake that is not attributable to the client, the builder, but to the engineers coordinating the construction and design, the builder will receive a financial guarantee. Since we have fully objectiveized the condition that, following an irregular construction, what can and cannot be maintained, I do not see the leeway that you mentioned with the della or the means of financial motivation to obtain a survival permit, since the authorities do not have subjective powers in this respect. Therefore, if the building does not comply with the parameters set out in the construction regulations, there will be a very clear demolition obligation at the end. The debate on a villa in Buda in recent years cannot, for example, occur within the framework of this new regulation. The question is indeed interesting, which you have raised, that there is a difference between designer and designer, and what is the guarantee that a young designer who does not have the professional experience of an older designer can do the quality of work that customers expect. Here, on the one hand, I would like to express the government's conviction that we trust the performance of the higher education system. This question may well be raised, even if for some reason someone has to lie under a knife at the hospital and if a young doctor is operating, it is likely that he has less routine surgery than an older doctor. But there are internal professional standards that ensure professional progress, and in this respect, by strengthening cooperation with chambers and the control powers of chambers in this respect, we see this type of professional guarantee in this measure. [[14.40]] He did not ask any questions, but the selection of the Budapest Chamber of Professionals came up here because, in terms of its number, it is the organization that has sufficient capacity to carry out this control and control function, and it is not the national Chamber, because as an appeal forum, it is possible to enter in the second place in relation to its decisions. The congresswoman touched on a number of questions. The fact that the question will be returned within two weeks is that the bureaucracy reduction proposed by the Secretary of State Kovács is general, or let us say: it is a salad, and this is only about the construction stories. What you missed, the government decree following the municipal image protection law, is already in intergovernmental consultation, before administrative consultation, and is expected to be published in November, so during November the government can negotiate, at the end of November, at the beginning of December, and this year the government will close this obligation. I do understand the question that you are trying to ask in this case, that there has been a coherent unity of building regulations since the change of regime, which the government has broken down with this measure, but our aim is precisely that if we want to reduce state bureaucracy - and I am not talking about its headcount, but about institutional barriers and administrative barriers - then we need to make a radical contribution to the rules that need to be implemented in the field of construction, and I think that the directions, even the drastic doubling of the construction announcements compared to last year, all confirm that there is a market demand for these simplifications. There are issues that we do not yet see in this regard, but I can only confirm the intention for the Member woman that the government is open to reopen these chapters in the future, if life forces them, and if we can actually go through the series of measures of bureaucracy reduction only if we touch regulatory instruments that basically regard citizens as minors, and do not assume that, with proper technical knowledge in their background, what a designer, a foreman's execution can do, they are actually able to comply with the rules that must be complied with in accordance with the letter of the law. Indeed, it assumes a much more balanced system of relations, in which there are dangers, there are opportunities for different pitfalls, but I think that the government can handle this through regulatory means. Mr President, thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-08-86	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Csepreghy. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the bill on the free transfer of certain state and municipal property until closure. The government referral is T/12734. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr János Fónagy, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor.
u2016-11-08-87	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Under the provisions on national assets provided for in the Fundamental Law, the aim of the management and protection of national assets is to serve the public interest, meet common needs and protect natural resources and take account of the needs of future generations. The Act on National Property, established as a fundamental law under the Fundamental Law, lays down the requirements for the preservation, protection and responsible management of national assets, provides for the scope of exclusive ownership and exclusive economic activities of the State and the local government, as well as the limitations and conditions for the disposal of national assets of high national importance. According to the law, the exclusive property of the State or local authorities includes, inter alia, spaces and parks belonging to national property. However, the Act on National Property also states that if the law defines the task of the local government as the task of another local government or as a public authority or as the task of a local government, the transfer of the local government directly serving the task and the necessary property to the recipient of the task may take place free of charge. This provision shall also apply where the State or the municipality delegates a task which is part of a public mission and the ownership of the property directly serving and necessary for the performance of this task is transferred free of charge. Dear Parliament, The purpose of this bill is therefore to ensure that, in addition to the transfer of the tasks of the establishment and maintenance of the listed public parks and other public areas, the public park, which is public and municipal owned directly and necessary for the performance of the task, and the properties with such functions, are owned free of charge by the municipalities and by the State. The bill provides for the transfer of mandatory tasks related to the real estate and the free transfer of 35 state-owned properties required for the provision of public service tasks to 22 local authorities under the National Property and State Property Act. Six of the real estates to be transferred are protected under a separate legislation, because it is a monument or Natura 2000 area. This protection does not, of course, cease, and with the transfer of ownership, the beneficiary municipalities are also obliged to comply with the legislation on protection in all cases. In addition, the bill provides for the public ownership of four other properties belonging to Erzsébet tér in Budapest, which are owned by the Municipality of Budapest, in connection with the maintenance of the public park. I consider it important to point out that, with the asset relief provided for in the draft law, the property concerned remains exclusively owned within the scope of national assets. Based on the concept of national assets, the exclusive state-owned and municipal property may not be alienated except for the narrow exception contained in the national property law. A right to use, a right to use, a right to use, a right to use, a right to use or a service established for the same reason, or a right to use the property for the benefit of a local government, or a right to use the property for the benefit of a public interest, a right to use it or a right to use it for the same reason, or a right to use it for the benefit of a local government, shall not be liable, shall not be given as collateral, nor a share of property may be created. Dear House, In view of the nature of the bill to maintain the protection of national assets, but also in the light of the principle of subsidiarity, I would ask you to support the bill and the Government's intentions. Thank you for your attention and thank you, Mr President, for your opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-08-88	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Jenő Manninger, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-11-08-89	Mr President, Dear House, The aim of the proposal before us is to ensure that state-owned public parks and similar properties are owned free of charge by the municipality by virtue of the law. The maintenance and operation of the public parks set out in the Annex to the proposal is currently the responsibility of the State, while the transfer of the public tasks related to the maintenance of public parks to municipalities will also take place. I would like to point out that, with the asset relief provided for in the proposal, the properties concerned remain within the scope of national assets and are no longer state-owned but self-government-owned. Article 38 (1) and (2) of the Fundamental Law lays down that the basic purpose of national property is to ensure the performance of the public task, the task of national asset management is to operate the national property properly and in a transparent, efficient and cost-effective manner, and to maintain its value and consistency, which is necessary to meet the social needs at all times. [[14.50]] The law on national assets established pursuant to paragraphs 1 and 2 states that the basic purpose of national assets is to ensure the performance of public tasks, the task of national asset management is to operate the national assets in a transparent, efficient and cost-effective manner and to maintain their value and consistency in order to meet the social needs of the national assets. (14.50) The state-owned real estate portfolio includes a number of public parks which are not necessary for the performance of public tasks, but which can contribute to the efficient performance of municipal tasks. The proposal and the other part of the proposal provide for the public ownership of additional properties owned by the Municipality of Budapest, which are part of the space, linked to the operation of Erzsébet tér as a public park. This allows for the development of a public park area that can be managed and operated in a uniform manner. For the operation of Erzsébet tér as a public park, the state provides the development and maintenance of green spaces through the Municipality of the City of Belváros-Lipótváros, Budapest Főváros V. District with the support for this purpose. On behalf of the State, the operating contract for the development and maintenance of the surfaces forming part of the property is the Hungarian National Property Management Ltd. Tie it up. Dear House, With regard to the above practical aspects, I would like to ask you to support this proposal. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-08-90	Thank you very much, Congressman Manninger. I give the floor to Congressman Dezső, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2016-11-08-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. At a time when we are talking about the distribution of different sections of community wealth to different communities, we are not talking about a new issue. My memory is certainly going back to the period of the regime change, I remember the so-called property transfer committees, where the division of this type of property took place, in fact it was the first time that it was decided which property would be the property of the smaller communities, the property of the newly created municipalities, and the properties that would be owned by the state. This work has been going on ever since, because it is indeed a significant work that covers a vast area, it is very diverse, and the fact that we have been able to deal with this in the last 30 years and it has been a recurring topic, means that we will always find new and new tasks to be solved. It is also clear and well-defined that this is a cross-border or cross-border task complex, there has not been a government since the change of regime where decisions on similar types of transfer of assets have not been made, or even a series of complete decisions. I think, and when I started reading this presentation, I nodded during it, because it is in the various areas of the country, in the areas owned by the state, which can function as a public park - I also wrote out to myself how diverse this picture is: Abaliget, Békéscsaba, Debrecen, Kecskemét, Orosháza, Pécs, Siófok, Zalaegerszeg, but I could still list it, because there are more settlements, the areas here were owned by the state - it is quite obvious that the state is not able to be present in all areas, it is not able to maintain this quality, so I think it is right to fix ownership as close as possible to communities, communities using the area, and then to use these areas as a task. So I think it is right to give community property to communities where they are used, I think it is right that property should not be separated from the operator, because it generates new conflicts, and I think it is right to think that the so-called shared property should be settled as far as possible, because in many cases there is a small municipal property in the middle of a large state property, and the conditions for its operation are difficult. On the other hand, this may be the case that a very small part of a large municipal property is state-owned and hinders its use. As a Member of Parliament, I have also met with a similar question in my own constituency, and I have brought it here to Parliament. In my constituency, there is also a part of the territory that the municipality intends to use, a service house - obviously a community goal, since the community will be provided services - and there the municipality plans to build municipal apartments. Within this is a 78/5390-ed part of state property, otherwise out of use. My proposal - joining the proposal of my fellow Member, Mr Márius Révész, by the way - was that it should be transferred to the municipality free of charge. Therefore, I have tabled an amendment to my fellow Member Révész's proposal. Interestingly, since then, this bill has been completely settled. There are no great wonders, however, I have now looked at these local figures, and the number of property with the same location as the bill previously submitted by my fellow Member Révész has been included in this package of proposals, but of course my amendment has not been included. What interesting things are there; I suppose it was possible to avoid saying yes to one of the fidesz proposals, while at the same time saying yes to the same one that came from the other side, no. This will probably solve the issue. Obviously, my fellow Member Révész will also withdraw this legislative proposal he made earlier. I think it is not right for this to happen, and it is not right for us to look not at the Community objectives, but to look at the party from which this proposal came. At the same time, these are perfectly fine, in my opinion, because they are real estate where it is the local community, the cities in question that will be able to operate the new real estate that they own. So I think that so far this bill is perfectly sensible, understandable, well justified and has a clear intention behind it. Until now. Read more about this proposal, the whole idea, the whole intelligent, justified and clear intention is overturned, since afterwards the property owned by the Municipality of Metropolitan City would be owned by the State, this property is located in District V. It's District V again, by the way. It's interesting that the thought is reversed here. This proposal is not to make matters clearer, to be the owner, and to be responsible for this area, since the State owns an area used by a smaller community, but the State already sees that it will not be able to operate it in a normal way, so it intends to conclude a contract with the local government to be the owner of this area. So, while the first part of the law contains clear and understandable intentions, in the second half of the bill, I see an example of the opposite. However, as a result, this becomes completely incomprehensible in this way. In the last few years, we have not seen a bill where there was no intention at first, but then a few months later, perhaps a year or two later, the intention became clear, and again we could see that they wanted to steal these areas. I do not think that we can be held accountable if we have such thoughts, since this is not the first attempt of those in power at present. I have been looking for the reason for this resurgence, this completely meaningless and unjustified transfer of property, which, I repeat, would be owned by the City Council, and then operated by the V. district government. [[15.00]] I found the reason. It is in the last sentence of the explanatory statement, where it is written that, in addition to the operation of the public park, this has been a public park, and now - the creation and operation of a community space combining possibilities for active recreation and other public tasks laid down by law - I do not know why other public tasks are necessary for a public park, in particular in the performance of public tasks relating to tourism. Don't be a good psychic of me, but I'm afraid that there will probably be a hotel built here in the coming period. But then we'll get back to this story. Given that the first part of the bill is completely clear, understandable and eligible, the second aim of the bill is completely contrary to the original objective and therefore unacceptable to us. I'm sorry to say this, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-11-08-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman István Hollik, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2016-11-08-93	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is also right in itself for the government to review from time to time, year to year which properties belong to its property, and to examine in this portfolio the elements that are absolutely necessary for the efficient provision of public tasks, and which are not included in this. In itself, we can see, as the bill before us shows, that the state is carrying out this investigation from time to time, and that is why this bill is in front of us now. I think that this activity in itself is also correct, but if you look at the annex to the bill, there are 35 properties in it, and eight of them affect my hometown, Nagymaros. Allow me to speak from the bottom up a little bit about how important such a decision is for a local community, a local government. In the case of Nagymaros, we can say that the Danube bend has longed for twenty years, and Nagymaros is also in its heart to be an attractive tourist destination, but it is essential to be able to implement tourist development. Unfortunately, the Danube Bend has not been successful in the last 20 years, because, thanks to Gábor Demszky's lobby in Budapest, Budapest and Pest County are in a common region, so EU development resources could not arrive there - not even in Pest County, and not in the Danube Bend - so the local government and investors could not actually make tangible improvements in cooperation with the local governments. In this respect, thanks to God, after 20 years, the county of Budapest and Pest has become two separate regions, and more importantly, the government has decided to set a compensation development framework for Pest County for an amount of HUF 80 billion, of which it can start at least partially the development of the last 20 years. In the case of Nagymaros, the barrier to this was state property. Nagymaros' plan has long been - in Visegrad, opposite Nagymaros, there is a hotel capacity - to get a hotel to Nagymaros. There are investors' interest in this, but the biggest problem of Nagymaros' municipality is that the sports complex on the outskirts of the settlement cannot be installed anywhere else, and a hotel could only be built on that site, as in all likelihood thermal water is only there, and investors are interested in this. Nagymaros's old plan is to relocate this sports complex to the other side of the city, which has actually been useless for the past 20 years. Due to the plan of Bős-Nagymaros, the area was expected to be exploited when the plan of the power plant in Bős-Nagymaros was off the agenda, so that area was actually on the ground for twenty years. Therefore, a very important decision for the Nagymarosians is that now the Hungarian Government and the Ministry of Development have decided to hand over to the municipality of Nagymaros the public parks that are located there, which are basically in this area. This is actually the first element of the domino needed for development, as then the sports complex can be relocated here, and there can be a hotel investment. Although this bill itself may seem to an external observer a less important bill, it is an extremely important strategic issue for Nagymaros. On the one hand, I say that the transfer of property ownership is also very important, so KDNP can support it - I myself specifically because of personal involvement - but I also consider it to be to be supported, which may at first seem to be a small detail, but I think it will make it easier for the property ownership to be owned by the municipalities by law without a separate contract on the day of the entry into force of the law, which, by the way, is the third day after the adoption. So this actually makes access to property simple for municipalities, speeding up this process, which, I would like to say once again, is particularly important for Nagymaros. So the Christian Democratic People's Party welcomes the proposal and we consider it eligible. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-11-08-94	Thank you very much, Congressman Hollik. I give the floor to Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, the notary of the Parliament, the lead speaker of the Group of Jobbik.
u2016-11-08-95	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The bill consists of two parts, as the previous speakers have already said. We can support one of the proposals to the farthest extent, that is to say, that the individual public parks should be owned by the municipalities, because they also have the task, so let them have the property. So far, this is perfectly ok, logical and understandable, but also a Eligible proposal. I have one brief question on this. As the Secretary of State quoted, according to the National Property Act, these properties could not have been burdened in any sense, but at some point the bill states that it is handing over property with burdens and obligations. This may be just a technical turnaround, but at the same time, because, in the case of Dunakeszi, there is a property that is not only a public park but also a building, so I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether there is a burden on any of the properties that the state is about to hand over to the municipalities. The other question is the fate of Elizabeth Square. The above mentioned how strange it is that, while public parks have been handed over to local governments, the state has, on the other hand, withdrawn the ownership of a public park from the Municipality of Budapest. Actually, it's more of a profile cleanup, I understand. I would add that, by the way, this is a rather ominous proposal, which lies ahead of us, because it could indeed be intended that, in order to carry out various tasks, a property should be taken over by the state, but that is precisely the task that you claim in the paragraph before it, that this would be the task of the territorially competent government, and that, by the way, would be the best place for wealth where the task is. On the other hand, you are taking this property away and giving the task to the V. district municipality with the same momentum. In part, this has been the case, and now instead of the two local numbers so far, there will be a total of six regional numbers, in which the State is the owner and the V. district municipality is responsible for the task. [[15.10]] Let's assume it's a good construction. I don't think it's good, but let's assume it's a good construction. Let's see if it's worked this far in life. I have to say no. Secretary of State, I do not know if you have heard or have been there, there are rather scandalous circumstances in Budapest's Erzsébet Square. I think it's amazing, overall, that in the heart of a metropolitan city, you can see beautifully grown rats running around during the day, human excrement, garbage, every existing filth can happen in Budapest, in Erzsébet Square today. So probably the original concept of the state taking this park and giving it to District V wasn't good. This profile cleanup, that now even more real estate is being taken over by the state and even more burdened by the V. district, may not work, or it is unlikely that this would be a good solution. So I ask the Secretary of State to take a walk, a tour of the field, and you, too, will experience the very amazing conditions that I have just described for you before this final vote takes place. I do not think that this would be acceptable in any city in Hungary, but not in the central public areas most popular with tourists in Budapest. There is therefore an urgent need for intervention here, so before the law is adopted in any sense, please look into the manner in which the State manages its own property, well or rightly, if, where appropriate, it entrusts it to the V. district municipality. The other question that has also been mentioned here is what a single-managed community space you are now trying to create. He's at the Design Terminal, and his fate has been question-signed. There was a time when it was operating as a budgetary body, and now we know that next year it will not be done, but that the operation and operation of a nonprofit Ltd. will be entrusted to the operation of the Design Terminal. There's the restaurant that used to be called the Pit Club, now called the Aquarium Club. Can we expect further construction, some kind of extra investment here in the heart of Downtown? There wouldn't be much room for him, at least not in that area. In the large courtyard crossed by the old wall of the city, behind the building of the Metropolitan Municipality towards Deák tér, there would have been a possibility, there were several intentions of installation. Last I heard, they were planning to build a tower there, or a construction project, so not only the Metrodom construction in North Pest, not only the construction of the Garancsi in the southern Buda areas, but there would also be a completely extra-built tower. For my part, I think it's a very bad idea, but let me tell you this. In any case, I would like to ask the Secretary of State to make it clear to us that the figure in the bill, that you want to create a common community space here, does not mean that, in any sense, Elizabeth Square will be built in. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-11-08-96	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I'll see if anyone else wants to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. Mr Fó Nagy, State Secretary, points out that he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2016-11-08-97	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for the supporting keynote speeches and also for those that partially supported the proposal. Allow me to give you a specific answer. This is part of a draft law, which is why I ask everyone who thinks that it can be made more complete by means of amendments to it to submit the amendment, and if it fits with the content and spirit of the bill, of course it will be treated as such by the author. With regard to the comments made by Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, allow me to respond specifically to the burden, so what is the burden on the listed twenty-five properties; it is not of a property nature. One of the things that was one of the generals of the entire proposal was the case of Csajkovsky Park in Budapest, District X, Kőbánya, which is exactly the same as what our trusted fellow Member said that there was a predominantly municipal-owned public park, and that there was some part that was left out 20-25 years ago because of the real estate administration, to complete it. At the same time, the whole park is a monument, so it has such a burden. There is the Döbrököz - 1556. place number - and I looked into this Werbőczy castle and, as such, it is protected by monuments, and it is an archaeological protected area, and part of the areas mentioned by my fellow Member in Nagymaros are protected by Natura 2000, i.e. nature protection, and the area belonging to the village Zhennye is a flood area, such as a large waterbed, which is protected as such. So when it comes to taking over a particular burden, it has such legal burdens and not property. As far as Elizabeth Square is concerned, the subject of Erzsébet Square is to be divided into two, in order to ensure a fair presentation and a fair assessment of the proposal. One of them is the former Pit, mentioned by you, now perhaps known as the Aquarium. It has been settled in recent years, and there is a section of the sidewalk, called Deák tér for the sake of simplicity, that is also true, and on the other side, the pavement or tread surrounding this area, which has been settled with public money. The housing, the placement of public works, the public lighting has been carried out, and essentially as an installation this belongs to the Aquarium section, so the accounting is uniform. So these four landmarks are the area of this four-sided sidewalk. As far as the unified treatment is concerned, I have to say, originally in the professional proposals, there were two large spaces: Erzsébet Square and Vörösmarty Square. Both because split property and split judgment, divided treatment led to what you, unfortunately, quite rightly and well-foundedly said, namely: disorder and chaos. Both of these are frequented areas of the capital and Hungary, both by local residents, the capitals and by tourists in both areas. I would add very quickly that we shouldn't wear a hunchback that isn't ours. The fact that these public areas look like this is due to a certain degree to the high tourist price, but this does not exempt the operator from the obligation of continuous repair. [[15.20]] That is why we consider it important that this should be treated in a uniform way. With regard to Vörösmarty Square, the capital has maintained its demand, and therefore, for the sake of agreement, this proposal deals only with Erzsébet Square. But we agree very much - and the single treatment is all about - that this should be a state task, which will be handed over to the V. district with full public responsibility, so that I can say it with beautiful Hungarianness. I would like to stress that this bill does not, in any way, aim at any further integration of Elizabeth Square, which has not been considered. I would like to emphasise, and this is also mentioned in the proposal, that they have run with a public park designation, and, as I have tried to stress in my expo, these property registration ratings will not change in the future. So what is transferred as a public park remains a public park, so it's not a building site, it's not a built-in area, it's a public park. I would ask you, with my answer now and with this addition, to judge the eligibility of the proposal when voting on the bill. Thank you for your attention. Mr. President, thank you for your time. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-08-98	Thank you very much, Secretary Major. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law on national tourism development will follow until closure. The government referral is T/12737. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr. János Fónagy, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-11-08-99	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In the first half of this year, the government redirected tourism in a new direction, with a significant reorganization of the state's governance of tourism. The reason for this was the recognition that tourism, as an important sector of the national economy, which accounts for around 10 percent of GDP, has a significant potential for growth, but we believe that this can only be expanded by a more effective governance structure than before. It is in our common interest that tourism contributes more than today to Hungary's competitiveness. The government's strategic objective is to extend the stay of tourists from abroad, increase the costs of Hungary and increase the level of domestic tourism consumption. We don't necessarily need more tourists, but long-term guests with significant purchasing power, and we need better guests in Hungary, so we want to focus on quality instead of quantity. Before 2016, the State typically provides marketing communication support for the existing tourism offer, but with the new concept in the bill, it performs a multi-faceted task. In addition to the need to renew tourism marketing, the State should raise the level of coordination of developments and focus on the implementation of certain key developments through its institutions. In addition to the previous tourism advertising activity, the bill also defines the professional development of tourism as a state task. In this view, the philosophy is that not only should the product be sold, but the development of the product is equally important. This is supported by a renewed organizational order, instead of the previously fragmented management and planning structure, the Hungarian Tourism Agency was established. Ladies and gentlemen, In order to achieve these objectives, the bill covers a number of regulatory issues and lays the foundations and establishes a legal and organisational framework for tourism developments in the coming years. To this end, it establishes the concept of tourist destination, which represents a tourist reception area that can be positioned as a brand. Within the destination, it creates the priority tourism development area category, and this is a destination that can be made important or targeted for tourism from abroad. It defines tourism development and priority public tourism investment. Tourism development means direct tourism development, or development that indirectly serves tourism; the priority public tourism investment represents a hundred percent significant tourism development on state-owned properties. The point of the new concept of tourism development is that Hungary is not a tourist destination to be developed as a unit, as 93,000 square kilometres, but within the country there are units to which special public attention should be paid and to which incentive schemes should be adapted. According to the bill, the basic design unit for tourism development is the tourist destination. This is not an administrative unit, not a territorial unit, but an independent policy category. Technically, it is an indication of a geographically identifiable region with a specific cultural content, which can be positioned as a separate brand and therefore has a national economic interest in its concentrated development in a single concept. Dear Parliament, The tourist destination is also a supply and demand category. It is not only a development target area but also a relevant receiving area, i.e. a destination. As the travel decision is taken at destination level, i.e. at regional level, the basis for boosting domestic tourism demand is to develop and communicate effectively as many well-branded destinations as possible. Many of these destinations exist on the domestic market. This is important because international tourism can be organised where domestic tourism works. The recovery of domestic demand will also be an important purchasing power in some emerging destinations. There are currently fewer marked destinations at international level. The bill sets out the basic professional purpose for the development and development of the destination and regulates the procedural arrangements for their design. The draft law installs preparatory tasks related to the professional development of the order and system of tourist destinations on the Hungarian Tourism Agency. It will be up to the government to designate the destinations and priority tourism development areas on the basis of this preparatory work. The bill integrates already defined, ongoing and future developments into policy frameworks. The immediate task is to coordinate investment, planning and use of development resources and later branding and market supply. The plans for the Sopron-Fertő and the Balaton-preferred destination can be seen at the moment; these were discussed recently by the government. The plans of North Hungary - the Tokaj-Zemplén region and the Upper-Tisza region - and Budapest, as well as the green ring surrounding the capital are under preparation. Initiatives are also under way in relation to Lake Tisza and the region of Drava-Mura. According to our plans, in 2017 we will limit and designate some twenty to thirty tourist destinations, and on this basis we can begin the professional preparation of their long-term brand concept in cooperation with the actors in the region and the existing TDM organisations - tourism destination management organisations. Three to four of these can be defined by 2018 and five to six priority destinations can be defined and their development ideas approved. Dear Parliament, The other main regulatory issue of the bill is related to the implementation of the development, creating the property framework for priority tourism investments in 100% state-owned or property management properties. In order to carry out these investments, the State can base 100% of the state-owned non-profit companies. In addition to investing, these companies will also perform project management, coordination and brand communication tasks for the branding of the particular destinations. [[15.30]] The development of tourism, which is a strategic area of strategic importance for the competitiveness of Hungary and domestic businesses, is an important task, which is worth supporting regardless of party affiliation. In addition to providing tourism development opportunities through tourist destinations, the proposed legislation also contributes to the communication and preservation of cultural, heritage, natural and ecological values at present and for future generations. In view of all this, I ask that the bill be debated and that the government's objectives be supported. Thank you for your attention. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-08-100	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Jenő Manninger, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-11-08-101	Mr President, Dear House, We have an important bill before us, which addresses a number of problems that have recently been raised in the field of tourism. Tourism has been a success sector in Hungary in recent years, it is extremely important since it directly employs 338 thousand people, representing 9.8 percent of GDP last year. We can also say that we can report data reflecting success from 14 to 15. The number of foreign tourists increased by 17 percent, the number of domestic nights increased by 7 percent, and the number of foreigners increased by 4 percent. Healing tourism has also been successful, we can see that Budapest is particularly successful in tourism recently. Of course, if we are to analyse the situation, it is important, in addition to the current successes, to increase competitiveness, because indeed, there is still a great deal to be done in comparison with the region. The first and most spectacular problem, as indicated by the presentation, is that tourist service providers can compete with each other in prices in order to attract or maintain a relatively small and relatively small tourist capacity, which can legally lead to quality problems and preserve low-priced, yet acceptable quality on the supply side, and rarely lead to internally motivated quality development. The second problem is the spatial and temporal concentration of the tourist offer. Domestic tourism is characterised by territorial concentration. Two thirds of all guest nights are realized in the regions of Budapest, Central Danube and Lake Balaton and Western Transdanubia. Foreign guest traffic is heavily concentrated in Budapest, domestic tourism is less concentrated. Besides the territorial concentration, there is also time concentration, there is a very strong seasonality in Hungarian tourism. The third structural problem is that the established administrative units and regional development categories do not serve as a suitable framework for the planning of tourism developments. The tourist reception area, which can be displayed as a package of tourist offers, must be developed in a complex way and not one attraction separately. This consideration and working method is also behind the tourist success of several European countries, such as Austria, Italy. The designation of tourist destinations and the measurement and evaluation of the performance of providers operating within their framework will enable policy and development policy decisions to be underpinned. Dear House, In spring 2016, the government set a new direction for tourism. In this context, it has significantly reorganised the state governance of tourism. The reason for this was the realization that tourism, which is an important sector of the national economy, has significant growth potential, but this can only be exploited by a more effective governance structure than before. The aim is to renew tourism marketing work, both in terms of volume, attraction and technology. The State should raise the level and focus on coordination of developments and ensure that some of the key developments are implemented through the institutions of the State itself. In addition to and instead of previous tourism marketing activity, we need to define the professional development of tourism as a public task, i.e. not only selling the product, but also developing the product. The bill states that the planning of tourism developments from the domestic budget and from European Union sources is the responsibility of the State and that the basic unit of tourism planning is the relevant tourist reception area. It defines the general concept of tourist destination, defines the purpose of the development and the recipient of responsibility for the basic public tasks of the development of the destination. The proposal defines the most important state tasks related to the planning of tourism developments and records that they are carried out by the Hungarian Tourism Agency Zrt. You should take care of it. However, the definition of public tasks does not affect, mutatis mutandis, the provision of the tourism tasks of the municipalities as laid down by law. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me add that Hungary's talents, traditions in tourism and catering are excellent. However, a new approach is necessary in order to exploit our existing knowledge in the field of geography, culture and hospitality. At the level between country-brand communication and local tourism brands, it is necessary to build and sell regional brands. Currently, in Hungary, Budapest and Lake Balaton are the two tourist areas that are able to appear on their own in the tourist offer at international level. It is in the interest of the country to position third, fourth and then further areas in addition to the development of these two drawing destinations. It should be mentioned here, of course, that stretches must also be developed, as tourism of an international nature, world fame, can only be based on the most demanding destinations, such as Budapest, Lake Balaton and hopefully the development of other wine regions. In the spirit of this, the government will determine the system of tourist destinations and the destinations themselves on the basis of the mandate given by the bill. From a tourist point of view, the government can define the areas of reception that are outstanding in terms of tourism in transit as a priority area for development, known as a tourism development area. Dear House, We can say that tourism has produced a number of excellent results in recent years, and we still need to improve further and increase competitiveness. Let me make a detour here. In recent years, certain articles have been published that have tried to challenge the success of medicinal tourism. If you look at the numbers and what areas I have been talking about in the past, specifically foreign tourists, in recent years, Hévíz, Bükk and Hajdúszoboszló will follow after Budapest. So we can see that the development of medicinal tourism was also extremely necessary. Of course, I am not going to go into the details now, as some improvements and investments can indeed be discussed in detail. But I think that the direction has been good so far, but it is more important than ever to increase our competitiveness, that is to say, to attract more demanding, affordable guests to Hungary, especially in the designated regions, where this opportunity is given. I think, Mr House, Mr President, that there is a proposal before the Parliament that gives us hope that the tourism sector will operate in a more efficient, more professional way than at present, and I therefore ask you to support the proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-08-102	Thank you, Congressman Manninger. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party. [[15.40]]
u2016-11-08-103	Thank you very much for the floor. There is now a fabulous bill before us, in which there will be lords, princess and princesses. The only problem is that most Hungarian people do not live in this fairy tale world, and they no longer believe in fairy tales. Let's see what's behind the bill and its past. In February 2016, news was published that Antal Rogán's propaganda minister plans that tourism should be managed in the future by a highly centralised state top organisation, the National Tourism Agency. According to Rogan's presentation at the time, the entire sector was supposed to be taken over by sightseeing buses through the Island Festival. Budapest's tourism development was envisaged with the establishment of a separate company, the Budapest Tourism Development Organization. This company would also have had the money from the sale of the Budapest card and the operation of the Hop-Off bus on its own. But in order to achieve this idea, we should have taken the sector away from the Ministry of National Economy. However, the Minister of National Economy, Mihály Varga, does not seem to have requested from the NIÜ that Antal Rogán chose the princess as one of his tourist managers. Rogán found tourism for a reason as the next target of nationalization. The sector produces a tenth of GDP of some HUF 33 000 billion and often accounts for ten thousand players. According to Antal Rogán's opinion in February, they do not want to restrict competition; new public tourism organisations are needed because of efficiency. By now, a bill has been drawn up from the previous proposal, which deals only with tourism. It is also necessary to note that in April 2016, the Government decree on the tasks and powers of the members of the government was amended, according to which tourism, in some surprising way, was taken away from Mihály Varga, Minister of National Economy, and was handed over to Miklós Seszták, Minister of National Development, Head of the Ministry of National Development. It seems Minister Seszták has done what Minister Varga refused to do, joined forces with Minister Rogán to exploit tourism. New definitions of the bill include the definition of the tourism area. With this new concept, the government overrides the administrative units and categories of regional development that have already been established. This will create a new structural unit for territorial development, making it opaque and incomprehensible, for example, the system of territorial and sectoral management and territorial development over a thousand years, the tourism regions that are now established, as well as the territoriality associated with the EU proposals. With this new category, you can even cross the administrative borders of the counties. In service zones of service providers, more and more county resources can be used in parallel to the use of EU funds for a project. The latter may be interesting when the development is on the verge of an area that allows, on the one hand, the use of a de minimis EU resource, on the other hand, an area where the intensity of grants is very high. In this case, EU funds can also be used in places where the economic development of the region in principle would not justify it. The question is whether the EU will later consider this type of financial use to be legal, whether it will later launch another infringement procedure against Hungary. In addition, this new structural unit also ignores territorial features, which can also lead to a disruption of the tax capacity of settlements with different levels of development and the region. Economically developed and underdeveloped settlements have different problems and problems that the new system cannot handle and solve. The problems and situations of multiple disadvantaged settlements and the people living there will not be solved by an isolated castle renovation, in which locals will be able to participate as public workers or trained workers. But not even a meaningful improvement in the daily lives of residents when working on the wage below the minimum living wage as a waiter, maintenance or doorman in these renovated castles. Employment of unemployed people for more than a year can only take place after serious training, in many cases after some catch-up training or job placement. We're not seeing this today. National development 2030 refers to the designation of developments for tourism purposes. It has therefore been formulated that the tourist accommodation area should be developed in a complex way and not a single attraction on its own. However, if we accept the statement of this bill, then the question arises, on what basis has, for example, been the development of tourism from EU funds so far, and the government admits that it has supported and implemented tourist attractions without any comprehensive concept? What individual tourist attraction in the use of EU money could be, for example, the bicycle tourism development of the river Zagyva, which was built in 2012 by the Lake Tisza Ökocentrum or the town of Hatvan? It also arises how many billion forints the government has spent in tourism in the last seven years without a comprehensive development concept. As a further question, what will happen to the current Hungarian Tourism Zrt., what will become of Magyar Tourism Zrt. relations with the newly established Hungarian Tourism Agency Zrt. Two boobs in a game, as the proverb says, are difficult to fit. The bill states that the planning of tourism developments from the domestic budget and from European Union sources is the responsibility of the State and that the basic unit of tourism planning is the relevant tourist reception area. With this measure, the government will centralise tourism and the mobility of its participants. Once again, another area they're taking over for themselves. It's based on manual control to determine who gets, where, when, when, how much money. For example, the castles and mansions that were supposedly connected to István Tiborcz not so long ago could be among the most important investments, to him and to businessmen with Turkish backgrounds. Under the provisions of the bill, the government will indicate in its decree the real estates where the planned public tourism investments are carried out and can be owned by the State at 100%. Well, these properties are now unknown to a wide range of society, but I'm sure some people already know them. With this measure, it places outside Parliament's decision the decision on which 100% state-owned properties will be transferred by the National Tourism Agency, which will then be used for a minimum of thirty years by someone for their own devious pleasure. On the basis of the bill, the part of the property designated by the Government's decree affected by the planned public tourism investment will be transferred to the property management of the company owned by the Hungarian State by 100% for a period of thirty years or for a period specified by the parties in a property management contract. We have more questions than that. If we're already talking about 100% state ownership, then why do we have to hand it over to another 100% state-owned company? In addition to the 30-year free asset management, what is the need to include a rubber rule in the law? Could there be items of property that we will not rent for 30 years, but for 100, 150 or 200 years, to someone free of charge? A member of a family with its own feet may be involved in the small-taffirungation of a new state-owned trustee, which has now been created, at the appropriate moment, say, when the necessary investments have been completed with the help of public funds, and may accidentally be privatised. I'm sure we just have too much imagination to make this fairy tale a reality once in a while. The bill sets the shortest possible time limit for the granting of licences and contributions to all the administrative units, public authorities and public utility providers concerned, in most cases with a maximum period of 15 days or, if possible, an even shorter time limit. It even narrows down the possibilities of appeals to the minimum possible. With these cutbacks, they open a number of loopholes to developments in support of private interests disguised as state. The sites of construction make it possible to eliminate archaeological excavations, thereby significantly damaging our cultural and archaeological heritage. The bill constantly highlights the exploitation of state property by commenting that state property will remain state property, but there is no mention in the bill of the creation of profits or profits from the exploitation of state assets, or of their use and management. Somehow, the legislator does not say a word about this, not even at the level of reference. It is felt when reading the bill, as if the new trustee did not even seek to make profitable use of the wealth received free of charge. This is supported by the condition that the National Tourist Agency will not be obliged to recover during the management of state assets. [[15.50]] So you're free to do whatever you want to him. It is also very talkative about the adoption of the bill that this proposal will come into force practically without transition, on the 15th day after the adoption. It's a very urgent matter for the ministers, the free lease of state property for at least 30 years! The MSZP will therefore not support the bill. The present bill is based on conflicting principles, such as the previous draft law of the MSZP in 2008. At the time, the MSZP wanted to develop tourism through the involvement of economic operators, local authorities and the profession, as opposed to the current effort, which wants to transfer national wealth to the benefit of individuals in terms of centralization and community, at least that is what it looks like. By rewriting the administrative boundaries, by eliminating archaeological explorations before construction starts, by reducing the administrative administrative administrative deadline, the deadline for the work of the public authorities, the deadline for the performance of the public utility companies for an unrealistic short period of time, they are breaking all the decent construction and renovation rules they have made so far. Thus, once again, they highlight their own interests from the country's community and create such favourable conditions for themselves that no mortal on earth can reach them except those who were born there. By renting public property free of charge for at least 30 years, by abolishing the obligation to recover from a company which is engaged in the exploitation of 100% state-owned assets, the need to maintain, supervise and improve the newly created or renovated infrastructure and public services will only increase their own profits. It seems that the state is sweeping a lot of real estate into one place, it is starting to renovate, operate, and all this on a state budget or from EU funds, and then maybe the profits will be skimmed by someone else. I mean, we're back in favor of someone and we're creating a market. The proposal does not contain in any place, but even at the level of reference, standards that would make it easier for our disabled or disabled fellow citizens to access castles that are now part of state property to be renovated with a large wound lobe. We believe that this proposal has been written on someone again. We have the feeling that this fairy tale will be good for some people again. As I told you, the main lords, the princess and the princesses, who will be stifled again, only this does not serve the interests of the Hungarian people. Therefore, the MSZP does not support this proposal in any way. Thank you. [[Dr. István Józsa applauds.]]
u2016-11-08-104	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Anita Heringes. I now give the floor to Congressman István Hollik, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2016-11-08-105	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! Mr Secretary of State presented in detail the substance of the bill before us. Allow me to highlight only three important problems that I believe the law can provide adequate and adequate answers to. We can see that the legislative proposal is essentially designed to strengthen tourism's ability to generate income at national level. This applies both to the extension of the stay of tourists travelling from abroad and to the increase in their spending here in Hungary, and to the further increase in the current level of domestic tourism consumption. And what are these basic three problems, which I think should be answered by reshaping the institutional system, because this is the only way to make the Hungarian tourism sector more competitive. The first is that tourism providers are able to attract relatively few and relatively low-cost tourists to our country, and the problem is that, in order to maintain them, they are basically competing with each other in prices, which leads to quality problems; it can preserve the condition that they offer cheap, even acceptable quality on the supply side, and we can also clearly say that it rarely leads to internally motivated quality tourism development. This is therefore not an opportunity to develop services, which is a key issue for the further development of the tourism sector. The second problem is the spatial and temporal concentration of the current tourist offer. Because if we look at how tourists spend their time here, we can see that two thirds of all guest nights are realized in Budapest, in the Central Danube, Balaton and Western Transdanubian regions, and in the case of foreigners this means 60 percent of Budapest, while in the case of domestic tourism Budapest has little significance, bath towns and the most popular settlements on the shore of Lake Balaton. In addition to the territorial concentration, the time concentration, i.e. seasonality, is also strong in Hungary. We can see that in 2015, more than 30 percent of all guest nights were concentrated for a month and a half, so two summer months, July and August. The aim is, of course, to extend the tourist season and even make it four seasons, and not only in summer tourists or many tourists come to Hungary, but also in spring and autumn, and even in winter if possible. The third structural problem is that the established administrative units and regional development categories do not serve as a suitable framework for the planning of tourism developments; this is the problem the government intends to address with the new TDMs to be introduced. We can also see that earlier the National Assembly adopted a concept called "National Development 2030" on the basis of which, in accordance with the concept of national development and territorial development, Hungary is not usually able to develop tourism anywhere, but should focus on areas where improvements are justified, which serve the development of tourism brands and brands that can be recognised on the tourism supply side for a potential customer seeking a travel destination. Several European countries - if we don't go far, Austria can be mentioned among our neighbours - are clearly behind its touristic successes this clear concept and institutional transformation. Therefore, in view of the above, the essence of the legislation under the bill is that tourism destination should be the basic design unit for tourism development in the future. The bill also states that the planning of tourism developments from the domestic budget and from European Union sources will be the responsibility of the State in the future and that the basic unit of tourism planning is the relevant tourist reception area. It also defines the general concept of tourist destination, the purpose of the development, and the recipient of responsibility for basic state tasks related to the development of destination. And although this bill does not mention it, I think that this institutional transformation can only be successful if we do not bring the budgetary resources devoted to it to the same level with Western European examples as I mentioned earlier, for example, Austria of our size may be, at least in a similar territorial size, Austria may be relevant, but at least we are approaching these budgetary resources, and in this respect it is very important that the newly created Hungarian Tourism Agency, in a different way from previous years, can manage with a significantly higher source, which is necessary to develop brands and tourism brands on the one hand, or if we have created these brands in a tourist sense, then these brands can also be advertised effectively and targeted abroad. Overall, with the current bill, the government wants to transform the institutional system on the basis of international examples, on the basis of good examples. We are not talking about novelties, we are not talking about Hungarian innovation. It is simply about transferring international, well-established practices to Hungary, which will help to ensure that Hungary is able to compete with the tourist regions of the countries around us in the ever-enhancing international competition in the tourism sector. [[16.00]] I trust that this proposal, which sets out the development framework for Hungarian national tourism, will be supported not only by Fidesz and KDNP, but also by my opposition colleagues. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]]
u2016-11-08-106	Welcome, fellow Members. We will now continue with the keynote speech. I give the floor to Mr Lajos Kepli, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-11-08-107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Many things have been said by the speakers before me, and my fellow members of the Government have said many things that I do not think this bill is about. This bill, at least I do not see how Hungarian tourism will boost, how it will give an even greater share of Hungarian GDP, and how it will create more Hungarian jobs. This bill for me, in our reading, is all about how to implement a centralisation in a new sector, how to make the allocation of funds, the implementation of investments as central as possible, and of course it is true to spend resources or, if you will, to drain them. My fellow members of the government may think that the opposition is seeing horrors again, but the vision of horrors is usually confirmed, and unfortunately, these nightmares are often a reality, and under the Fidesz government we could list many examples. Every time you centralise a sector and take control of the distribution of resources, it will always result in the presence of an economic operator close to the government, and even in the form of 30-year leases or other forms mentioned by the law, you will place your hand on that state asset, and then you will take advantage of this tourism investment. Unfortunately, we have seen a lot of strange things in the tourism sector over the past year or half a year, as there have been sources that have already been promised or awarded, such as 300 billion forints announced for the development of Lake Balaton, which has been withdrawn overnight by a government decision to the biggest shock of those living there. They did not understand it, and they do not understand it to this day, but it is now beginning to outline why investments already half-planned or already in various plans had to be destroyed, whether infrastructural or other investments, by a stroke of a pen. Obviously, these sources will be centralized from now on. Even then, Minister János Lázár said, after the withdrawal of 300 billion from Balaton, that just because a certain tourist destination, let's say, is at Lake Balaton, should benefit from the evaluation of the tender. I think that if a destination is attractively attractive, then yes, it should enjoy benefits in the national economy, and yes, additional attention must be paid to it, because even if we provide additional resources to an area where otherwise attractive tourist destination is not found, it is not certain that it will bring about the recovery and recovery of tourism. Of course, there are priority areas in this respect, especially Budapest and Lake Balaton, for foreign tourism in Hungary. From the point of view of domestic tourism, the situation is a little more divided, but Balaton is also a priority tourist destination or destination area, so that we use the Hungarian terms instead, because destination is a foreign term, which I think we have brought in completely unnecessarily through Hungarian legislation or through the tourism jargon into this law and into the language of tourism law. What developments are being made is again a Hungarian Tourism Agency, whether Ráhel Orbán or Andy Vajna, or I don't know what names have been or haven't been mentioned today, but obviously we all know that in terms of tourism, it is primarily about them, who are the number one decision makers in the background when spending these investments and money, what will happen from these investments. We fear that not first of all will be determined by reason, which direction we are going to take in the field of tourism, and not by the needs of tourism. And where are the local actors? This is what we miss very much about this proposal: whether local authorities, representative bodies or local tourism destination organisations will be able to express their views on these investments, because this concept seems so centralised, which in fact eliminates the whole of the settlement process in the case of, say, a municipal settlement. After all, if it is a priority investment, then it will also be possible to interrupt the procedure for official authorisation within 15 days, or to ask the actors in the local settlement, whether the local authorities or once again: the tourism organisations, whether the investment they are planning is appropriate for the settlement in question, can bear that particular investment, as those who are working locally know it much better than to say that they are judging it from a national central organisation system, because they may have liked a property on the shore of Balaton as one of the above mentioned gentlemen or ladies, and they imagined an investment there, and they will carry it out. Or I don't know if Mr Pharaon might want to get some more castles in Fejér county on this road, but unfortunately, we have seen some sad examples of this here in recent times. So we've seen a lot of things, except that during the six years of the Orbán administration, tourism has been really booming, and it's really creating dozens or thousands of jobs. I can tell you about Lake Balaton, where the same problems that we have already mentioned in the 2010 election campaign have failed, and this law will not solve how to push the season from those two months of summer up to six months or longer. Investment must be made, investments must be made that allow people not only to go to Lake Balaton to go to the beach, they can not only spend their time in summer hotels there, but also throughout the year, and in this respect should be conceived or should have been put the concept of government on the table long ago. Compared to this, it is always about the distribution of resources, European Union and domestic resources in all such so-called professional legislative proposals, and a comprehensive tourism law should embrace many branches of tourism starting from tourism marketing. Such a comprehensive bill would be necessary, because it is now brought in independently, how the central Hungarian Tourism Agency will control investments and resources, how it will decide who can get the exploitation of a given state-owned property for up to 30 years or longer, and what will be done there, it will in effect only strengthen us that money, as in any case, is in the background, and not in the interests of the Hungarian people. It would obviously be in the interests of the Hungarian people to strengthen domestic tourism on the one hand, and to give Hungarian families the opportunity to spend their holidays in Hungary on the other. Obviously, the other side is the settlement of wage conditions, but that is not the subject of this law. The second is that Hungarian families have a positive opportunity, and it is also in the interest of Hungarian families to create jobs within tourism, which they can work in, primarily the Hungarian families living in the tourism area can benefit from it, as they spend their income locally, and whether foreign or domestic capital will be able to benefit locally. I think you should answer these questions to the government. And if we go back to Lake Balaton again, we can see that there have been many very well-sounding ideas about the real estate in the last ten years, let's say ten years, since since 2006, this SCD madness started, which then became nothing, but starting from a racetrack through the international airport, I don't know what investments were invented and then didn't happen. This situation does not seem to change at all, because either, well, there are not very fair foreign or domestic investor circles behind the investment, who are trying to steal the property or just steal some kind of tender money, and they really do not intend to make the investment, or who would like to participate in or do some business, and who do not have the right capital to do it. [[16.10]] And the real estate has always been widespread, and the properties on the shore of Lake Balaton are of great value to this day, but what we see, for example, in Club Aliga, which was put into asset management by the Hungarian National Asset Manager, is that, in fact, from what the investor decided there, nothing was realized. One half of Club Aliga was owned at a very high price, and the other half was owned by a lease contract and a property management contract, but I was in the area just a week ago, and it is visible that the buildings continue to deteriorate, they are destroyed, there is no maintenance, or it is only very minimal that the danger of life may be eliminated, but there is absolutely nothing development, and it is one of the most beautiful connected, large-scale properties of Lake Balaton. And the government can't do without the government's help. These issues should be resolved, and it would be good for the government to come up with a concept in this direction. I also asked the Minister with a written question, in particular, regarding the case of the Alpine case, whether the review of the trust contract should not be considered in such cases, since the owner did not comply with the trust contract, and the answer came that there was no problem with the trust contract. And this also anticipates whether, if, under this law, asset management contracts are concluded, how and who will verify whether those conditions, those investments will be made, they will actually be carried out as provided for in the contract, and whether there will be consequences if they do not, because this is a very important issue. Because if it's about spending 30-40-50 plus who knows how many years of real estate for use, asset management, and nothing happens in return, then again, we're not going to move forward, again, tourism is not getting any better, the tourism sector of the economy is not growing, no new jobs are being created, and these are key issues. Because the fact that Lőrinc Mészáros is building a railway line around Lake Balaton for 100 billion is a very useful and good thing - not for 100 billion, but, say, the electrification of the Balaton railway, which could possibly be made out of a maximum of two thirds, but rather from half of it, according to expert estimates - but it is also very important how the transport infrastructure evolves. But believe me, it would be more important for locals to create real jobs in tourism, because more and more people are moving away from these otherwise popular tourist destinations, because there is no job, there is no form of living. At the moment, individual accommodation providers are increasing the tax rate from 32 to 38 thousand forints - if I remember the number correctly - on an annual level, of course, which may not seem to be a faithful but large increase, but who has just been thinking about whether it is worth maintaining it at all, or whether it is selling its property, or going abroad within Hungary or going abroad, as so many hundreds of thousands of people have already done - this certainly cannot be a goal. The aim is to boost tourism in Hungary, perhaps in this, I hope we agree with the government, in the instruments, that we seem to disagree. We do not want the centralisation of money, the centralisation of the distribution of money, to be seen primarily in such a tourism law, but the idea of how the government will implement these issues. Until then, we cannot vote in confidence in this bill. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-08-108	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2016-11-08-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would ask you, with all due respect, that it is very difficult for me to start from something other than basically these laws, when I look at them, not to assume that my basic concept is that a well-organized criminal group has been incorporated into Hungarian legislation, partly operating on a family basis, and they have been intertwined in order to legislate to help them steal public property and outsource public property for themselves. The basic concept is, therefore, that every legislative task is created, and when I look into it, I am very, very much reminded of whether it is a farmhouse or a tramputsi that it is practically possible to redistribute a market, so that a sector can be redistributed to some stakeholders through nationalisation. What are we talking about? In this respect, tourism is an excellent medium, since it has a very high potential, a meaningful economic opportunity, and obviously how this economic opportunity will be used in the next period by the economic elite that Fidesz-KDNP is building, it will determine how resources can now be looted, because this is one of the main directions of this bill, what can be used with central budget and EU funds, and what developments it will be used for, there is a great opportunity to steal, and then obviously, if we put in this circle of friends, it will be a profitable sector in the long term. In my view, this whole bill is nothing more than the preparation for the possibility that Fidesz might fail once, and with the acquisition and takeover of economic power, how will it be possible to capture - the MSZMPs did this in the past, the transfer of political power into economic power is a clear example in Hungarian history - and I will obviously stand up with a heavy heart and start talking about it. Because in part, in agreement with my fellow Member, Mr Lajos Kepli, I have to say that as an opposition representative, of course, the development of tourism and the exploitation of the goods that can be produced can be a common goal, which is important both for opposition parties and for the ruling party, but it does not matter what kind of tourism we build. What is the concept, building tavern tourism, prostitution tourism on the capital city, or trying to make a living in rural areas, helping to maintain jobs in rural areas with a wiser development? This is important because - I really wanted to ask my fellow Member Hollik professionally about his thoughts, to look at his own notes, from which he read - the tourism development centres that you referred to as fragmented areas are all areas where, say, transport infrastructure and industrial infrastructure are also available. At the beginning, tourism is targeting developed regions, although this could be a sector where we could reach those regions of Hungary where industry is more underdeveloped, at the moment the road network is worse, there are fewer jobs at the moment, and it is feared that this concept will be strengthened by the creation of these regional centres or approach. And this is an important question of what purpose tourism should serve. Basically, my approach is that tourism is a blessing and a curse. It can be a very heavy burden for a local community, and it can be a very big curse that will deliver it and make the local livelihood and the local economy dependent on external resources, and it can be a blessing if it achieves tourism development by achieving a sustainable visitation on local resources with an income supplement, not an extra environmental burden. The problem is that in this task, how to build it, it is good for local communities to have a say, it is good that innovation can appear and some priority tourist attractions can attract people and invite them to, say, a small region, even a multitude of income from tourism. From all over Europe, I think we could all give examples, where tourism developments have been made in small settlements, which are completely unknown, virtually never heard, which have become decisive since then, and have become the engine of the region in the economy. After that, aircraft traffic, aircraft traffic, economic development, industry, and so on. This means that this bill can influence the development of the regions and have an impact on how the regions of Hungary will develop later. However, I see a worrying trend in all of this that I am not sure that this will be done wisely, and one of the main reasons for this is, in part, experience so far. I think that if you click on the Hungarian electronic media and look at, let's say, the most important line on such websites is what you can see, there is only the case in Rakamaz from the last few weeks. You can see that hundreds of millions go by creating a tourist development that is never capable of self-preservation, which then requires public wealth, just because someone thought that concept was good. [[16.20]] But in the same way, and here I do not know how to argue with my MSZP colleague, because it was not clear from his remark that the Prussian ecocenter was as if it had been a bit negative. But maybe he didn't, and maybe he just mentioned it wasn't a concept. But what we typically see there is the creation of an ecocenter in Pruszló, which was almost the dream of a mayor and the dream of a pro-government mayor, which has created a brilliantly started and well-functioning system, one that has been able to achieve positive performance since its first year, with a turnover of over 100 million, and has been determined in local employment. Then we move 8-9 kilometers to the border of Tiszafüred, and there we see this also media-traveled bike lookout tower, which is also unsuitable for everything with nearly billion-dollar development. It does not maintain a job; it cannot keep there with a single development that local service providers have more guest nights; it cannot provide a specific service that is economically self-sustaining and hundreds of millions have gone away. These two are nine kilometers apart. This supports my MSZP fellow Member's idea that there has been unconventional, unthinkable development. But this is the responsibility of the decision-makers at all times, what they have allowed, what they have supported, and not just the responsibility of the applicants! And when there is a positive initiative such as what we saw in Poroszló, for example, which was a completely local initiative and not a central direction, that is what we want to take out. The most important mission of this law is to centralise tourism development, nationalise tourism development and take innovation from the countryside, which would provide opportunities for local areas and local authorities and local government cooperation to jointly think about their future, what can be built. Feel free to look into it. Your computers have search engines like this: ecotourism, rural tourism. The basic concepts that define tourism development opportunities in the countryside, which could be included in such a regional centre, are not included in the law. Thus, the basic tourism concepts are not included to build local communities and develop local livelihoods. A wise development would seek to achieve how EU funds and central budgetary resources can reach as many people as possible and to ensure the livelihood of as many people as possible. Contrary to this view, this law seeks to achieve how to combine, centralise and centralize tourism development in a system defined by the government, when someone - some smart people, I suppose - sits down and says that there is potential, there is potential, and only on these are the EU funds, and everyone else is destroyed, it does not need to develop tourism. These are important because, obviously, many people are always getting upset when the name of the Prime Minister's daughter comes up, whether his name is Andy Vajna or the name of Lőrinc Mészáros, but it is simply a matter of fact that these trends are clearly felt in the process we have seen in the past. Please allow me to refer you back to the beginning of this year. At the beginning of this year, this news was released in February:.Antal Rogán explained in a closed discussion why the new state governance of tourism would be good. Orbán's daughter, who studied tourism, was there as well as Andy Vajna, a government commissioner for film. 'Cause who's supposed to be at a meeting like this? One of the organizers explained: Rachel Orbán was invited as a youth studying abroad, and the recently buying of TV2 is so important to the country that twenty of them should be added, said Antalek Rogán. We also asked professional organizations, but many did not even hear about the event. "'" said HVG. In February this year, this nationalization process started, and somewhere in a cauldron, they started pupping it, which is now ahead of us, and that kind of nationalization started with that background. Now, obviously, this does not strengthen confidence in the way that this can be accepted, because in the law, you are practically demoting and destroying local communities. Here is the concrete example: here are the laws 8. The criteria which may constitute a threat to each local community are those set out in Section 2 of this Annex. There is no need to obtain an architectural, technical and design opinion on specific developments; there is no need to carry out a municipal opinion procedure; there is no place for a settlement-image notification procedure. Please, the local communities will be deprived of their right of disposal. This is a central endeavour when it is said that from now on local authorities, local authorities, local civil society organisations and local tourism development should have no say. At the same time, what do we see as a process? That Fidesz had reorganized tourism from 2010 onwards, and that it was not trying to make a living for as many people as possible, but that it was able to keep his finger fully on all of its arteries. I can give you the first example: in 2010, as Fidesz came, he excluded all settlements over five thousand from the tourism investments from the third axis of the European Agricultural and Rural Development Fund. He didn't think at all about the fact that developments have remained halfway across the country, that the first phase had been completed from this source, and that the second phase had never been completed because it was excluded from development sources. But here's the other thing: if this tourist destination has become such an uplifted expression: a typical, one of my favorite examples is the case of our beloved Minister of Agriculture, who took his place, and because he wanted to benefit from the priority investments, his own town, Karcag, which is 40 kilometers from Lake Tisza, he put it in the Tisza lake zone. These professional decisions took place from 2010, when practically nothing else was said about how to keep the resources in with your buddies. And that is a problem, because if this law is thus adopted, the government will do even more to ensure that the European Union funds, which the Union gives Hungary to catch up with the society of Hungary, that a citizen living in a northern lowland or in a southern lowland region, as far as possible, in GDP per capita, even though this is a stupid measure, but usually in a quality of life, should approach the citizens of the European Union, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, this source will be retained by the state itself, this EU resource should be here, because this law is about how to organise the priority tourism investments in public ownership, and how to create the monopoly on which the law authorises. Make no mistake, you are not the first government in Hungary to steal [[Deterioration in the benches of Jobbik.]] the last five to six This is not a new innovation to try to keep the resources. The problem is - that they steal money, they write about it in the media almost every day, it doesn't really seem to bother many people, but it is a fact - that they are putting certain players in a competitive position who, from the moment they stop using EU development resources and there is no central budget, they are able to operate as big fish in the natural market, and they will never have the chance for small and medium-sized enterprises, small local communities interested in agrotourism, who would try to move forward with a means of rural tourism, local organisations serving sustainable tourism and ecotourism, municipalities will be in a step disadvantage forever, because hundreds of billions of them will go here and they will be disadvantaged because they have no resources, and this competitive disadvantage will no longer be able to overcome in this solution. So the problem with this law is that it's basically about - I accept that you don't see it that way - how you can keep resources and how you can play through development resources to your friends, and partly about the economic potential in the sector, so what tourism can produce. But the biggest problem is that this centralisation takes out the opportunities and innovation of local communities in the field of tourism. I think it's worth talking about tourism. I think that in Hungarian society there will also be no topic of choice in 2018 about Hungary's tourism, so this should not be a political issue. What we need to do now is take it back and think about it together. Let us sit down and try to see whether the situation of the Hungarian regions in the European Union is in per capita GDP or, if we look at the situation of the Hungarian regions, where the development that can sustain rural jobs is most necessary; where there is a need for infrastructure development, road network and community transport, which can contribute to the rise of an area; where there is room to expand gastronomic offer; where there is room for all the principles of ecotourism to apply; where there is a need not to buy farmhouses in Pest, but for locals to try to achieve rural tourism in as many small villages as possible; right, we see this trend. So I think it's necessary to think about it. What I have seen in Hungary in the last 15 years is that Hungary has very good tourism professionals, whether at Corvinus University or at other professional workshops, there are very wide-sighted professionals looking at the trends of the world's tourism. It would be very, very good if, with such a bill, they didn't serve some kind of purpose - not in a very nice word - but instead tried to help the sector that the law would be about. In this form, our faction will not be able to support this, but we would very much welcome the opportunity for dialogue in this area. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[16.30]]
u2016-11-08-110	Ladies and gentlemen, The keynote speeches have come to an end. Now it is possible to make a two-minute comment. At present, two Fidesz Members have applied, but I can only speak to one of them now, so I will give the floor to Mr Mihály Witzmann in two minutes.
u2016-11-08-111	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I wasn't planning on commenting on this agenda originally, but my colleague Lajos Kepli's comment encouraged me in any way to see that he was already pressing the button, he doesn't even know what I want to say. [[Lajos Kepli: Yes, you can.]] But I'm glad there's an interesting dialogue between us. When I listen to Mr Lajos Kepli's thoughts about Lake Balaton and domestic tourism, I often feel that we may not be in the same country, but I am sure that we are not looking at things through glasses. [[Lajos Kepli: Thank God.]] What I understand is that when someone has to make criticisms and criticisms of opposition, we have to see the results and the successes. I think that, compared to the low point in 2009-2010, if we look at the changes and changes in the economic policy of the last five to six years, in tourism, we can see - and I will describe them in detail in my speech after the agenda - that both tourism revenues and guest nights and the number of guests have taken place in domestic tourism, as well as in Lake Balaton, with dynamic and powerful, encouraging changes. I also remember very well, my fellow Member, that not so long ago, at the beginning of this summer, we, the Balatonians, are getting used to it - because I was actually born there and lived there for almost 40 years, so I also experienced the conditions before, during and after the change of regime in Balaton tourism, not like you - so let us get used to the fact that there are no seasons, no season at Lake Balaton to prevent distress birds from appearing. We are getting used to a lot of people doing this, but when a opposition Member did this - not so long ago, Mr. Lajos Kepli tried to prove that Adria is better, cheaper and more beautiful than Lake Balaton, he insisted in his speeches - I think that we should really stand on the ground of reality. When it came to the restructuring of the 300 billion Hungarian tourism agency, Mr.Lajos Kepli said that the source was taken from Lake Balaton; fortunately, we also know that it is not true. When a change took place at the head of the police station in Siófok, Lajos Kepli feared for the public safety situation during the tourist period, since then public safety indicators have increased dramatically or improved. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And I could tell you the facts here, but two minutes was enough, so I would ask my fellow Member to evaluate the situation of Lake Balaton and tourism on the ground of reality. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-08-112	I now give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli in two minutes.
u2016-11-08-113	Thank you for the opportunity to respond, if you have said my name so many times, I certainly do. Congressman Witzmann said that I didn't even know what he was going to say, so I knew exactly what he was going to say, because every time he spoke to me in the last six months, he has always said the same things. [[Mihály Witzmann: It's the truth.]] I'm very sad to hear that you didn't plan it, as an individual MP on the shore of Balaton, you didn't plan to comment on this agenda, it's quite sad, but obviously you're qualified by it. And we've gotten used to it both at Siofok and at national level, that if the Fidesz rises to speak, then lies will leave his mouth. [[Gábor Bányai intervenes.]] because here too, on several occasions, and practically the two minutes were a massive tsunami of lies. [[Mihály Witzmann: Watch out! Let's not go into criminal law.]] I have never made the Adriatic more attractive to any Hungarian citizen than the Balaton. [[Mihály Witzmann: These are the facts.]] I just said that if we continue this way, they will be able to go to the Croatian beach cheaper than to visit Lake Balaton. [[Mihály Witzmann: Try it, fellow imager!]] I have said this, and I will do it now, because more statistics and statistics have brought it out that, indeed, now Balaton can become less and less competitive with these resort regions. That's why I told you, and that's why we tell you every year, and that's why in 2010 we had a programme for Balaton, and in 14 too, unlike you, Jobbik had a program for Balaton, which said that we really needed investment in tourism, and that we needed to extend the season in tourism, and that we drew up concrete proposals for solutions. Obviously, the two minutes, the 30 seconds left, are not a good time to tell you this, but you can know it precisely, because you live on the shore of Lake Balaton. You may have been dealing with issues such as Lake Balaton and tourism since you were a child, but I have been living there for quite a few years, and I can see exactly what is the problem of the region. I think there's plenty of Siófok to do in your single mandate district, let's just look at the Siófok hospital or other institutions and the state of the city, and then we can take it a little back from this youthful momentum. Thank you very much. [[Mihály Witzmann: Louis, I think I'm older, so much for the youthful momentum. Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-08-114	I now give the floor to Congressman István Hollik in two minutes.
u2016-11-08-115	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to do a few reactions, too. On the one hand, I regretted that opposition representatives are all fighting their own demons, seeing pro-government corruption everywhere. [[György Szilágyi: This is because you are corrupt.]] I very much hope that this is not because of what the Hungarian wisdom used to say that everyone is starting out on their own. [[György Szilágyi: It's because you're corrupt because you're stealing.]] That, by the way, if you were on the government, that's what you would do. But let's say for now - press the button, Mr Szilágyi, and then you can say what you have to say - the fact is that it would be good to move past this now. Sallai Benedek also said that it was his starting point. With this, I think, to continue the debate on content may not make sense. Secondly, it has been said that this institutional transformation and the development of priority regions make rural tourism, ecotourism impossible. I see it quite the opposite, and I think that this contrast is false in itself, because I think the two can strengthen each other. I don't think it's good to confront, say, the Balaton with small settlements, I think that the Balaton needs to be developed. I do not have enough time, but I will tell you in person what the experiences of tourist professionals in this regard are, but, Mr Sallai, that there is not enough hotel capacity on Lake Balaton, says the tourist experts. So to say that priority regions should not be developed, I think it is foolish. And the third one was talking about tourism professionals. I believe that the appointment of Gustáv Bienerth as government commissioner, who is a professional, worked on the market and knows exactly how it works, how a product can be well built and sold, is a guarantee in itself that, in this respect, we can move forward with regard to the development of tourism. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-08-116	I now give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedict for two minutes.
u2016-11-08-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to a few things for my colleague Hollik. They're not our own demons, they're the demons of this country, and they're called Fidesz-KDNP, so at the moment, unfortunately, we didn't create them. This is what you see everywhere, because it's everywhere, so corruption is everywhere where the Fidesz-KDNP appears, so obviously this. [[Intercoms from Fidesz and KDNP.]] And then we'll get to the professional questions, if you don't mind. The opposite: the problem is that when we locate a significant part of the resources in these directions, we take away meaningful opportunities from somewhere else. So, therefore, when we want an area... - so with the appearance of the tourist destination, it means that we are leaving a lot of areas out of this opportunity, and that is basically the problem here. It's not that we don't have to develop the Balaton, it's not that, I didn't say that, I said that it's not good if the state wants to do it in a centralised direction, and it's important because in its first speech - I just didn't respond to it - he said foreign practices or foreign examples. Please tell me in which European Union country you saw this, that the state centralises development policy and where it is, where it intervenes, let us say, in particular, in the market! ? Please, this is, in effect, what you're doing right now, a level of nationalization that, as an economic operator, when it appears like this, obviously, since it has a different market position for the state, it will not be able to build competitive, normal economic arrangements everywhere. And then I saw - just a few more thoughts - that he was a Pest child, so let me just tell you one thing. I've been sent by tourist experts to me with a substance. Only in Buda, since spring, they say that the two-time four landing and take-off points are few; they said everywhere that tourism cannot be done in the Castle, it has two registrations, where tourists wait for an hour; helpers sent several times between the 30-50-person groups; 30-60-minute waiting after the Várhegy walk is not expected, there is no parking. So I don't want to go through it, because time is running out, there are 8-10 points that predict practical errors, which means, unfortunately, those who deal with this are not competent, they're not practitioners, and that's obviously why there's a concern that maybe we're not going in the luckiest direction. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-11-08-118	I now give the floor to notary Nándor Gúr in two minutes.
u2016-11-08-119	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I just want to ask you a few questions in these two minutes. Mr State Secretary, I would really like to know where the concept is, where the concept is, as an example of the National Tourism Agency, you know, the idea of Rogán, the idea of bringing the tourism development organization to life in Budapest and today's draft law. You know, my fellow Member has already mentioned in his keynote speech when the intention of stretching from sightseeing buses to the Island Festival was shown and appeared. Where is the harmony or consistency of the Hungarian Tourism Zrt. After the establishment of the Hungarian Tourism Ltd. And the agency's relationship? So what harmony is there, or what contradictions are there? [[16.40]] It would be better if you spoke a little bit more about, say, the national castle and castle programmes that were decided at three paces, the first by 2016, the second by 2017 and the third by 2017-2018 with a government decision. It said less about these, and there is obviously much to be said about the 2016 processes. In fact, the essence of the questions is also focused on whether you really believe, Mr Secretary, that the issues that you are talking about should be in the focus here, or that, if there is a concept, there will be significant job creation for tourism, whether there will be wage growth in this area, or whether it will serve just what many people here have already said, in many ways, that you want to centralise, that you want to provide the possibility of overshooting. In fact, the end of the question is that it is the intention of regional development that is at the beginning of the priority line or the creation of more resources for friends. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-11-08-120	The two-minute lap is over for now. Now I'm going to give the word "normal" to those who wish to speak. Congressman Manninger Jenő has the floor.
u2016-11-08-121	[[Without sound:]] Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to respond to a few things. It's been said that tourism is obviously a debate day, and I'm just trying to...
u2016-11-08-122	Get the mike!
u2016-11-08-123	Thank you very much. Excuse me, I'm gonna put the mike on. [[It's happening.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to respond to a few things. First of all, I would stress that I think that in the presentation we should look at the fact that, if they were already quoting newspaper articles, they would also have read that the leaders of Hungarian tourism clearly stated that they had undertaken to increase revenues and revenues from the tourism sector. Then I have to assume that this proposal also serves to increase the country's revenue, to make it quite clear, demonstrably in the coming years, because, as I said, despite the fact that tourism is still successful, it still has reserves, or, if you look at it from somewhere else, it is necessary to improve competitiveness, because in neighbouring regions, too, very serious improvements have been made, and the tourism system itself requires things. I can only say that I know that he was not personally involved in this, that he listened to the stories when he was on the MSZP government, but if he was talking about stories, the MSZP should always start by saying where he was, where he was, there was once a Hungarian Socialist Party, whose policy was to sell out national assets. And then you can talk from here, if you want to talk about fairy tales. There was talk of the destination as to why it was necessary. I can say that the development of destination and related marketing is a very important part of the presentation. It is necessary because what you can really see is that Hungary still has this kind of cooperation in certain areas, which applies to a given area... - the region can be sold. The traveler, the tourist, goes to a given area with specific needs; and not to a particular settlement or a specific unit, but to an area that serves certain needs, let me not agree to exactly what they are. These must be identified and presented. That is why destination and marketing are necessary. I think this leaves a lot to be desired in Hungary, as there is a certain image of Hungary in foreigners, which must be carried on, of course, as it also brings tourists and values, but it must also build new values that can be presented. There are already signs of this, either on Lake Balaton or in Budapest. And here I would like to relate to your comment, because I respect President Sallai very much for trying to bring in rural values, and there is indeed a lot of development that can be analysed whether it was useful or not, but what he says is that nationalisation is taking place here. If you are so confused that you mentioned tavernism as the state wants to build. Let's call it what he said: the state has nothing to do with Budapest tavernism, nor will it be in the future. This has evolved only thanks to a few talented architects and the city's talents, and it makes a very useful contribution to tourism revenues. There is no nationalisation of any kind in this area or in other areas in general. I have one more thing to tell you, because here was also the 320 billion related to Lake Balaton. I am sure my fellow Member has been informed that the proposal has been revised since then. There has been some revision and, in fact, there are even more resources available to Lake Balaton. But there is no centralisation here either, because it is basically that it was composed of operational programmes before it, and now, after the review, it can change slightly, but the package that can be translated into Lake Balaton is also made up of the European Union's operational programmes. The same decision is made by the managing authorities, and they take the whole country into account, but they have examined it within that, and it is possible to establish what is appropriate to translate for Lake Balaton. It also includes the castle program. The castle program is not really affected by this proposal. The castle programme can be implemented from EU GINOP sources, which also has the right requirements. In the case of tourism development, most of them will come from GINOP and TOP sources, which also ensure territorial development. Thus, the TOP will carry out tens of billions of HUF development based on local players, local tender municipalities, so there is no centralisation here. And with regard to the tourism agency, as I said, they promised to increase revenue. So in the hope of this and with the need for the necessary changes, I ask that you support the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-08-124	I now give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi in a normal time frame.
u2016-11-08-125	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I wouldn't have said anything, but if my fellow Member has spoken to me, I will speak to him. I wish I could, because in the previous cycle there was a so-called Sports and Tourism Committee, which dealt with both sports and tourism. I think the Secretary of State can also confirm that in this committee, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary and so I supported all initiatives that served the interests of tourism. There were a lot of initiatives that I think started well at the time. I did not wish to participate in the debate, but if my fellow Member has called for this, I would like to say a few things. First of all, I'd like to respond to what you said about our demons, that everyone's starting out on their own. No, that's not why we're talking about corruption and theft, but we're talking about it because over the past six years we've had experience of any noble purpose, no matter how noble the matter you bring in to this House, in these cases corruption usually appears and theft appears. Whether it's sports or sports, it's indeed a noble goal to spend a lot of money on sports, indeed, as a strategic sector, but you're taking the money that, say, some people are getting in there from a Tao discount. The bottom of me was when we built a fence on the border to protect our country, then you were willing to make overpriced even at the fence, and some people took money from it. Closed up here, we're not fighting our demons, we're fighting our experiences with your thefts, your lies and your corruption. That's why it's in our mind that if you've mentioned Gustáv Bienerth, that it's such a good figure of speech for you, that whatever sector you're talking about, there are such reliable people. You know, he was the trusty gaming organizer, the trusted casino owner, the reliable this and the reliable it is. Gusztáv Bienerth is probably now the reliable tourist specialist you want to entrust to this tourism sector; the Gusztáv Bienerth, whose work is known to many people: for 15 years he has made a very good living on the issues of various Olympic events and Olympic applications. By the way, he may be a good tourist specialist, and he may also have the right help from the Prime Minister's environment, perhaps even another tourist expert or expert, such as his daughter, Rachel Orbán, and then he can work well with Gustáv Bienerth, and they will be able to determine very well what kind of tourist development in this country should be; what will be the need to spend a lot of money and the regions that should be developed. [[16.50]] By the way, when Sallai R. Benedek was just listing the questions about where to do this, what to do is do that, well, in the area of Felcsút there would probably still be a lot of improvements, because there is only a small train and stadium and everything else, and there will be a lot of improvements to be made there. But let's be serious. My fellow Member also said that it is possible to argue about developing settlements in Balaton or developing small settlements, where different programmes can be organised and people can be taken there, and there will be revenue. One thing is forgotten: small settlements in Balaton may also need to be developed. Because if we're talking about how many people go to Lake Balaton and how many people choose to relax in Balaton and relax in Balaton during the season, then we can have very bad experiences. People may even be able to have fun in Siófok one night, but if they leave there ten or fifteen kilometers - by the way, I travel with my family, because I try to relax in Hungary and try to spend the money - we find that everything is closed at 9:00. Everything's closed at 9:00 in high season. This is precisely part of tourism. It's also part of tourism. [[Going to Gábor Bányai:]] My fellow Member, if you are in these places, if you are in a large city in the territory of Congressman Manninger, there are opportunities - to set a good example and a bad example - in that big city, I think, as we say, on the north coast, in other larger settlements, just as long as you go to that settlement on the north coast, you will find opportunities to relax there at night, while there is nothing in this big city. He's got gifts, and he's got zero productions in these cities. But the question is not what you say, but what you will do about it. But if my fellow Member told me to press the button, I'd like to hear your opinion, too, so he can tell me. [[István Hollik: I will tell you.]] Very good, then at least we can still argue, and we'll probably press more buttons about it. There were professionals here. I don't want to name it, because after that, you will, and you will immediately make it disappear, just like you did. The Hungarian Tourism Zrt. worked with professionals with whom both the government and the opposition could have been satisfied. We didn't attack this man once, but for some reason you had to get rid of him by Magyar Turizmus Zrt. And he was good at his job. We didn't put it there, we didn't put it there by the opposition, you put it there, he was a professional, he was young, he was agile, and he did his job well. But I'm sure he didn't do something right, someone didn't like it, maybe someone didn't let him, maybe you know who I'm talking about, I'm just gonna say it again, I don't want to hurt him, so I don't want to name him. So once again, the most important thing would be to be properly thought-out, really professional-supported, normal tourism developments, not ad hoc, but pre-planned. And the fact that we are saying here that the biggest step forward is that we are going to be thinking about distillations right now, in my opinion, that sounds ridiculous. You've been in government for six years, and now you've come to the point of starting to think about tourist destinations? [[Intercoms.]] You just got here after six years of government? My fellow Member, you will stand up and tell me why you came to the point of thinking about distillation after six years. Or tell me why you have come so far to consider these structural changes so important, and I ask you to answer me, because I would really like to know that you must have much more inside information about these things, or let us know that this is not the case, and we have a bad feeling that Rachel Orbán has nothing to do with what tourism developments or what tourism investments will be in Hungary in the coming period. Thank you very much for listening, and I look forward to your answers if you can answer that. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-08-126	I would also like to hear Mr Gábor Bányai's reply, but we still have to wait for this, because we are bound by house rules. At this moment, I can give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedict.
u2016-11-08-127	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Nothing political, just content. Thank you very much, Congressman Manninger, for your reactions. First of all, I would like to recommend the possibility of this debate to the Fidesz-KDNP faction. There are just so many of them that they could initiate up to four days of debate. Compared to this, since I've been here in 2014, the government has never once initiated a debate day. And here we share one or two of our votes on how to put it together. I consider that a very useful suggestion. And even though I no longer have the opportunity to sign, I would like to support you if you could bring this to Parliament and we could talk about it, because this is an interesting topic and it could be important for the country. In this regard, I urge my fellow Member to take these initiatives within a group. And then some things are just a little more specific. You were saying that it is very important that tourism's revenue-enhancing activity is strengthened and that this is the fundamental purpose of the law. I'm sorry if I wasn't clear in my first speech, but I was just saying that it doesn't matter how this revenue is distributed, with whom it comes down and for what purpose it serves. I didn't really go into it, but Lőrinc Mészáros, the purchase of the Hunguest hotel chain from Leisztinger, the recent event; István Garancsi, the acceptance of the Kopaszi dam from Leisztinger, and that he was declared immediately by the minister as a priority investment; and we might add more. If the same trend is strengthened by tourism as we see in agriculture or in a pile of other areas, that some have the privilege of accessing these resources and that all public resources are subject to EU funds being enriched by some people, it is no longer the goal to increase revenue. The development of tourism, wise tourism, rural development tourism, sustainable tourism, is the goal. The aim is to make a living for as many people as possible, to make a living for as many people as possible, to have as many providers as possible, to have as many small businesses as possible as possible, and to have a decent income as workers. Overall, it's just that revenue is increasing, I don't have enough assurance that it's a good direction. My apologies to my fellow Member, I did not say with tavernism that this concept serves this purpose, it was not said, I just said that I also argued for the quality of tourism development. I didn't say this law would serve this purpose. It was interesting, Simon. a reference to the Slippery by my fellow Member. Basically, the weird thing is, I wouldn't feel sorry for Slippery, because my problem isn't that there's a train and a stadium and all that, but my problem is that he's not everywhere else. I don't care if every small settlement has the same amount of development resources. Goddamn it, how Slippery's progressing! My problem is that the destination approach just confirms that there is a small region or a settlement that gets the opportunity, and all the others are dying. The problem is not that there is a small railway in Felcsút, but the problem is that there are no other 300-400 settlements available for development, nor the most basic ones to be approached. That's the problem! If we tried to use these development resources evenly, he'd regret the little train of hell Felcsút! The destination approach strengthens this process. To highlight areas, to focus EU and budgetary resources, and to identify the next economic area in these efforts, which areas will be able to develop from this and where competitiveness will be fully advanced. And the last thing I wanted to say was that, if you don't mind, my fellow Member Manninger, he didn't want to be nationalised. Please, the legislation is 3. In effect, Article 5 of the Act states that it describes the role of the State in five paragraphs. These five paragraphs are all about what the state provides and provides for everything. In practice, it describes the tasks in five paragraphs and then states in paragraph 5 that the tasks set out in the paragraph are described by the Hungarian Tourism Agency Zrt. He's taking care of it on his way. Here, there is a paragraph about the task of the state, paragraph 4 where it describes everything specifically from (a) to (c) to (d) that all the professional guidelines, the definition of priority areas, the professional planning of infrastructure development within the tourist destination, professionally define, plan, coordinate the individual tourism... I do not read the law because you know or have seen this legislation. This is total nationalisation when the task of the State is defined in concrete terms by a paragraph of the law and then another paragraph refers back to a number of other tasks. This means that someone from the center will tell you that in a given settlement we are doing small Disneyland, we are doing beach tourism, we are doing medicinal tourism, and it doesn't matter what initiative the local community has, it doesn't necessarily matter what local conditions they have, someone will determine it. My fellow Member Hollik is obviously in good faith with his own government, so he will say that this agency will take this into account and obviously adapt. But why should I trust that, because it never worked? So basically this direction is not visible, basically it is seen that, in many cases, these developments are made with totally illogical use of resources and do not take into account reality. [[17.00]] Paragraph 2 states that the tasks set out in this paragraph are carried out by the Hungarian Tourism Agency Zrt. He's taking care of it on his way. Here, there is a paragraph about the task of the state, paragraph 4 where it describes everything specifically from (a) to (c) to (d) that all the professional guidelines, the definition of priority areas, the professional planning of infrastructure development within the tourist destination, professionally define, plan, coordinate the individual tourism... I do not read the law because you know or have seen this legislation. This is total nationalisation when the task of the State is defined in concrete terms by a paragraph of the law and then another paragraph refers back to a number of other tasks. This means that someone from the center will tell you that in a given settlement we are doing small Disneyland, we are doing beach tourism, we are doing medicinal tourism, and it doesn't matter what initiative the local community has, it doesn't necessarily matter what local conditions they have, someone will determine it. My fellow Member Hollik is obviously in good faith with his own government, so he will say that this agency will take this into account and obviously adapt. But why should I trust that, because it never worked? So basically this direction is not visible, basically it is seen that, in many cases, these developments are made with totally illogical use of resources and do not take into account reality. (17.00) And so are you! This is not only your government's own, I have heard your government repeatedly and indeed many times criticize development resources before 2010, when practically hundreds of millions of European Union funds have been spent on a multitude of improvements that, unfortunately, as long as this God is in heaven, will not be economically profitable because he cannot be able to, because all the conditions are missing. The problem is this, and obviously there is a lack of trust that contributes to this with regard to your government and the use of resources, with professional reservations. This clearly reinforces the very, very difficult picture of voting behaviour in a positive direction. However, we would continue to offer the opportunity that if this were to be withdrawn and a five-party consultation took place, if there was the opportunity to rethink this, even on a debate day in Parliament, then there could be a goal that could serve the development of Hungary's regions over parties. I wish you all the strength to step back once in a while. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-11-08-128	Now I can give the floor to Congressman István Hollik in a normal time frame.
u2016-11-08-129	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would very much like to argue with my colleague György Szilágyi, but the fact is that he spoke for five minutes, and in addition to expressing all kinds of slander, I could, in particular - I listened and took note - unravel two sentences of substance from what he had to say. One such great wisdom was:. Please do normal tourist developments. Congratulations! Well, I can agree with that. Of course not abnormals, normals, we agree on that. If this is the concept of tourism development for Jobbik, I think it's gonna take a little more than that. Your second point of view was that you are serious about creating the concept of tourist destination? Yeah, we're serious. Just like he meant it to Salzkammergu to create it. The thing is, it's the way of life. I don't understand, is there an alternative to tourist destination? If you know anything better, I'd love to hear it, but the world is going in this direction, and that's how tourism management works in other countries. And then Sallai R. Benedek brought up some aspects, and I'd like to reflect on that. The situation here with regard to priority regions is that there are geographical definitions. So I understand, by the way, and I'd like to be able to take tourism to a small settlement in Borsod, but we're going to be able to sell Lake Balaton significantly better, because that's what German tourists are really looking for. Or to talk home, because I'm not a Buda kid, I'm a Nagymarosian dunakanyari kid, and I'd really appreciate it if they came to us in the Danube bend, and they thought it was exciting and interesting geographically. The mountain is high, it meets the water, these are geographical conditions that make certain areas of Hungary a prominent tourist destination. It's not someone who chooses it, it's life that makes it, because it's what tourists are looking for. The tourist destination, as well as the National Tourist Agency, will also be responsible for putting them together as products and selling them abroad - that is all. On the other hand, I agree with you that sustainability and job creation must be taken into account and that it cannot be concentrated on just one region. Let me take another example from the Danube Bend. Eight to ten years ago, young people of my age launched the market in Nagymaros. They did nothing but ask the municipality to use the main square for such a market, obviously taking into account different food and quality assurance aspects. The thing has been going well for eight years, and these two young people, who started doing so, have only given local farmers the opportunity to sell their small goods there, and these two young people today are dealing with selling locally purchased Hungarian foods in high tourist destinations here in Budapest. I think that, when we develop a priority tourism region, it also affects areas that do not belong to this region, which also have an impact on job creation. I think that marking and developing priority tourist destinations is not a problem. That's the right thing to do. I think that's the job of the Hungarian Tourism Agency. Thank you.
u2016-11-08-130	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes in a normal time frame.
u2016-11-08-131	Thank you very much for the floor. The reason why the opposition feels corruption everywhere, I can say that it is because we see fabulous wealth in certain families suddenly. At some point, the youngest boy, who started out as a gas mechanic with his scone in ashes, becomes the 38th richest man in Hungary in six years. These are fairy tale wonders that most of the Hungarian population do not believe. I can tell you that you do not believe in these tales, which is why the opposition and, by the way, a large part of the Hungarian population see that there is corruption in many cases, and in many cases the hands of individual actors of the majority of governments are inclined towards you. Our biggest problem, and to repeat concrete questions once again, is to see if we can get concrete answers to them, to understand that Mr Rogán presented this proposal back then. Then suddenly, after nothing had happened, and Minister Mihály Varga probably refused to take the steps he thought he should have taken, they reorganize the government and take this part of the Ministry, tourism is no longer done by him, but another ministry receives his supervision. We will see that this proposal works now. Let's look at the various points of the changes that are really fabulous. If you write such an amendment, you can feel it written on someone. It's like you're trying to do something very good for someone, fellow Members. For example, we do have the question of abolishing administrative boundaries. From now on, if a development is between two counties or three counties, then they will choose the region to which EU funds can best be allocated, in sympathy. Depending on where you're going to put it and where the investment is good financially. If you look at the fact that for 30 years they rent the state property free, and then no one asks you what happens to the profits, whether they want to do it profitablely, or what happens to the money that comes in here, it's also a very, very good question. The fact that 100% of state-owned real estate has to be handed over to a 100% state-owned company doesn't make any sense. There is a very, very big question about what will happen to Magyar Turizmus Zrt., whether it will work together or how it will even be connected to Hungarian Tourism Agency Zrt. That's also a very, very good question. It's also a very, very good question of what's going to happen to archaeology. After all, they set deadlines which are the shortest possible deadline. So if someone gets that property, someone starts renovating it, they might be able to finish it with the shortest deadlines. And what's really just foam on the cake, this fabulous bill of law is really just the cherry on top of the foam, that it's gonna have to come into effect in 15 days. It is very important for someone to pass this proposal quickly. I think that if you look into their hearts, I can really say what my fellow Member Sallai said, take it back, let us start this area properly, because there is an opportunity in Hungary. And no one would really care if there were a normal road, a normal railway in the whole of Hungary. Then no one would really care. If we didn't have to bump from Paks to Ceca on the road, and we didn't see where the road painting was, then we really wouldn't be bothered by the little train. However, there are some basic things that have not been implemented, which is more important to the Hungarian population. And yes, there should be training in areas that are lagging areas, and there should also be an opportunity that is important for tourism, for which people want to go. There are treasures in this country that have something to look for. Our only problem, what we have seen in recent times is that when something has such short deadlines, it has to be accepted so quickly, it is so obvious that it has been shaped into a very fairy tale, and it seems that it will be given to someone as an opportunity to become more wealthy, then we feel that this is a waste of the Hungarian population's money, the Hungarian wealth. Indeed, many inhabitants feel that at some point there will be the lords, the nobles, and the citizens to whom they must be served. This is the feeling of everyone who reads this bill. I very much ask you to withdraw, let us start working on a professional solution that is really good for the Hungarian population, not just for some families and some people. Thank you.
u2016-11-08-132	Ladies and gentlemen, It's a two-minute lap now. I give the floor first to Congressman Mihály Witzmann. [[17.10]]
u2016-11-08-133	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to what my colleague Lajos Kepli said. Just stick to the fact that we should take it back from the youthful momentum: if I count the years well, then there is a difference in the age of one year between us, unfortunately for your benefit, so I'm older. So much for youth. Too bad he's wrong. For the sake of the real facts, I would also like to give you some information, my fellow Member. As regards the gross income of commercial accommodations in Balaton in 2010, the total gross income of the commercial accommodations in Balaton did not reach HUF 12 billion in 2010, it was almost double last year, HUF 21,3 billion and HUF 18 billion in the first eight months of 2016; this is also a 6.2 percent increase in relation to the record year last year. From 2016 we do not have complete data, with regard to the curtaxa, the tourist tax, we can not yet provide full-year data, but if we only look at the indicators of the three Balaton coastal cities in my constituency, Zamárdi, Földvár and Siófok, in Zamárdi we are talking about 5 and 8 in Balatonföldvár, and in Siófok about 42,000 guest nights more, i.e. 11 percent increase. I agree that much needs to be changed, improved, there must be other areas of concern, but let us not say that the current governing parties do not have a Balaton programme. Exactly the Hungarian Tourism Agency is finally the professional organization that coordinates developments in Balaton and tries to develop this region with unprecedented resources. I do not remember yet, my fellow Member, a government in Hungary that would have paid so much attention to tourism, to tourism in Balaton, and would have allocated so much development resources. The success of economic policy should not be linked to question marks, which, in fact, was able to leave a little more money than Hungarian families, either through the reduction of the rent, or through the replacement of foreign exchange loans, the family support system, the family tax reduction or the introduction of the SZÉP card, so that they could spend more on tourism and tourism. The results of this are now seen in physical form in recent years' developments. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-08-134	I now give the floor to notary Nándor Gúr in two minutes.
u2016-11-08-135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Secretary, more people have now asked not to confront a summary line of views with Members in Parliament at the end, but to speak to him on the move and to record his position in line with the issues raised. This is also important, because then perhaps we could argue with what has been said in substance, even with what you have said, or with your rebuttals. I hope that you will do so in the next few minutes, in hours. Because there were specific questions, such as: where is the concept? What we are talking about in relation to the ideas of Rogán is the existence of the national tourism agency and the tourism development organization in Budapest, its lack of existence and the relationship between today's concept or/and the Hungarian Tourism Agency Zrt. and Hungarian Tourism Ltd. In your relationship system, but even with regard to the already mentioned castle and castle programme, not with the events of the year behind us in mind? I can give you specific examples of this, including Miskolc or Füz, not opening the details. What I am trying to say, Mr Secretary of State and my fellow Member, Jenő Manninger, is that when Members are on the subject of stretching and stealing, and they are practically right to fear that this centralised amendment of the law will do so, it is not random. It is not simply random, because if we take into account and line up the events of the last six years, we have a multitude of visible examples. I'll let you know if it's necessary. It is not good to focus everything in the hands of political prisoners, from design to preparation to execution. We can give you examples of this, Mr. Secretary. I'm sure you know one. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-08-136	I can now give the floor to Congressman Gábor Bányai for two minutes.
u2016-11-08-137	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Sallai R. Benedek - although he has gone, I would like to reflect on his sentences in a few words, since he also assumed theft in everything concerning the bill and the Tourism Agency. I would like to inform everyone that there are two sources of tourism development in Hungary today. [[Sallai R. Benedek enters the Chamber.]] Within the framework of the operational programme for economic development and innovation, there was HUF 100 billion, most of which, I understand, was allocated 90 percent of its decisions by the previous Secretary of State for Tourism, and I am now aware that the Tourism Agency will continue this work. This money is tied down, and most of it will be translated into the renovation of Hungarian castles and castles in general, as well as the development of tourist resorts, and much of it will involve state-owned and municipal development. So here's the so-called mug you're trying to pin on us, I'd like to refuse. The other is the rural development programme, of which perhaps HUF 90 billion is available for the development of rural tourism in the region of Mr Sallai, and for other rural tourism-enhancing development, including the renovation of urban and urban buildings. I'm asking you to encourage the candidates to live with this. I don't think any of my so-called buddies, my buddies, anyone can't apply for this or your settlements can apply for this kind of thing. Another is whether a tourist agency should have tourist destination. My time is short, I mean, I have little time to speak, but I'll tell you that once the honourable Members look at the website of the Bács-Kiskun County Assembly - I suggest you look at it - there is a French study translated in Hungarian. France's best tourism experts were invited to our county in 2007, when they went through all the attractions of Bács-Kiskun County and said that everything is very nice, everything is very good, but they do not know why to come to Bács-Kiskun. The first thing that is missing is the tourist agency - the national one, but the county is also missing - as well as a serious local attraction, a great attraction that should be in every county. In this direction, the bill itself shows directions, and I suggest that everyone should believe that the Hungarian tourism sector will never grow in life in proportion to the Hungarian GDP without the centralized organisation. Trust me, we need it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-08-138	I urge Mr Bányai to press another button calmly, and then he will be able to speak further. I can now give the floor to Congressman Lajos Rig in two minutes.
u2016-11-08-139	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would also like to comment as a child on the shore of Lake Balaton, although he is not the oldest; I think my fellow Member Manninger is the oldest Member of Parliament on the shore of Lake Balaton in the House. But not with this youthful momentum, but with calmness, mid-aged, calmness, I'd like to list some facts. Balaton development money: 300 billion was separated by the government and the Lake Balaton was hacked through. The municipal councils and mayors were called together to see what opportunities they could offer in their settlements, and they immediately began to dream big, because it is the desire of a settlement to develop, especially the shore of Lake Balaton and the agglomeration serving it. Such an opportunity arose for the establishment of sailing ports and bribes, the development of the promenades on the shore of Lake Balaton, which have been missing for years, and there is the question of the bike road, the bike road around Lake Balaton, which was built so poorly in the past, that in some places the grass is growing. I'm sure you'll have to renew this money, because there's nowhere else to go. And then there is the question of serving settlements, settlements far away from Lake Balaton, which could very well join rural development and Lake Balaton tourism, because if the weather is bad around Lake Balaton, people prefer to choose booty tourism, wine tourism, but this requires local authorities to decide what they want to develop, and rural development funds must be in line with that. I mean, they don't plan a tourist house if they don't go up there. Again, it's just a waste of money, a waste of money that doesn't come in handy. These two sources must be united. For example, there is the Badacsony ferryway. There, too, they dragged the honey away that they might, but they didn't think that they could compete with the Tihani. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-08-140	We will now move on to normal time-frame speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli.
u2016-11-08-141	Thank you very much. I'm not going to take advantage of the normal time frame, and I'm really trying to get a little more serene, too. My fellow Member Witzmann is right that it is very good that the number of guest nights increases on Lake Balaton or any area affected by tourism. The question is whether this is related to the government's existing or non-existent concept of tourism, since two summers cannot be compared, since the number of guest nights in a better summer is clearly much higher [[Mihály Witzmann: She has been a woman since 2010, Lajos!]] ; I mean, in terms of weather, it's better in summer than in a worse summer. And there's a lot more to it than that. I know you've said the trend, yes, that's what you're yelling at our fellow Member, but I still see - and deny me if you can - that there is no development concept behind this trend growth. If this is indeed an existing trend increase, one year more, another year less, indeed, we do not see how the government tries to plan and conceptually in the long term, what is its purpose at all with Balaton. [[17.20]] So since 2006, people at Lake Balaton have seen that they were first engulfed with these SCD developments, I don't know how many hundred billion forints worth, it's obviously not for the duration of the Orbán government, but otherwise the county general assemblies, who sold the campings on the shore of Lake Balaton, were led by fidesz people even then - this is for the period after 2006 - and also for potom money. Investments have not been made. Since then, there has been no accountability for the fact that the promised improvements have not been made there. In many places, such as Badacsony, the locals could not go down to their own beach, because the properties on the Lake Balaton were blocked from them. The free coastal promenades provided for by the Balaton Act in 2000, when the Balaton Act was adopted, have not been implemented since then. A free coastal promenade should be available on 30 percent of the inland coastal areas. Since I am a Member, I have asked the competent ministry a written question at least once a year, and I have always been misled instead of giving a real answer on how these free coastal promenades will be designed to give the Hungarian people even access to Lake Balaton, so that it should not be that they can only get access to the lake through fences and paid beaches, especially on the north shore. And then a lot of things haven't been solved, like illegal entrances, stats, concrete bears, reed clearings. So there's an unconceptuality, an orphanage, I must say. There is no uniform owner of Lake Balaton, there is no uniform concept of development, there are ad hoc investments, measures, but most of all the lake sees the damage. I think that the fact that such a law, which states that the Hungarian Tourism Agency will decide on the allocation of resources at destination level, will not make this situation any different, will not make this situation any better, since a number of measures would be needed to do so, which would be a unified concept, along with a Balaton strategy, would finally designate where to start the development. This is, of course, a tourist destination of all that can be found in Hungary, but perhaps one of the most popular. Indeed, without it, it will simply not work, and in particular it will not work if local advocacy organisations or municipal authorities or even local TDM organisations are simply excluded from this, and no one will be interested in their opinion, but someone will decide from above what investment will be considered positive, carried out or supported from a tourist point of view in that settlement. This is certainly not the future I think it is, as Congressman Witzmann has outlined. Indeed, there has been talk of the second Balaton ferry, there has been talk of the Balaton circular railway, which would otherwise have been useful if it had been realized, although we do not see this at present, at least in the northern part, the concrete execution of this, but the second ferry was again an idea that we did not really see the reality of. I have already asked a number of questions in writing and verbally, that in an area where the crossing time is even the same as the driving time, and the crossing fee may be even higher than the fuel cost of driving around the lake, why it is worth it, or whose mind the idea of a second ferry was conceived, or if the right path or infrastructure network is not connected to it, what significance is a second ferry in Balaton. You might as well have invented a bridge over Lake Balaton, about the same amount of reality. So practically wherever I approach it, I always go back to the same place that this unified concept is really missing. You can say the numbers statistically, Mr Witzmann, how much was in 2010 and how much was in 2016, but if there is no government concept behind this, it is difficult to put this into the Fidesz government's account, as the number of guest nights increases or decreases. And the accompanying figure shows that most of the time this is just about valuable properties on the shore of Lake Balaton. I said in my normal speech, it also happened during the previous government, during the MSZP governments, partly selling Club Aliga and partly putting it into asset management. We also see that asset management is not necessarily a good solution. There, too, were virtually huge ideas, designed to build a complete part of the city by the investor who bought it at the time. You can argue that this would have been good or not good, and that you got it under suspicion of crime, and because of that, Jobbik filed a complaint, which was then rejected by the D.A.'s office, but we can see that you are now in his property management and that your condition is deteriorating. There's the environment of the former Kádár villa, and now anyone will see what it looks like in Club Aliga, it's a sad sight, I must say. I don't think I'd like to go on vacation with my family in this state. However, it is a beautiful natural environment, one of the most beautiful beaches of Lake Balaton, and simply per state property management will ruin our eyes. And I can give you a few more examples of what investments have been made during this period, which really support the figures that Congressman Witzmann has said are indeed the result of the government's concept, and from the attention of the government, or I do not know how the Member said that there was no government that paid such attention to tourism. Unfortunately, I still do not see this, and believe me, Congressman, that we have had a number of debates about who is not Balaton and who is not Balaton, let us put that aside now, because if I were a representative from the Great Plain, I could speak in the Hungarian Parliament for the sake of Lake Balaton in the same way, because why should not any Hungarian citizen be concerned about Lake Balaton? But by the way, I live on the shore of Lake Balaton, and then, in particular, I think I have a right to do that. I hope that both of us do these speeches with good intentions and concern for Lake Balaton, and that neither one of us seems to want the disadvantage or the damage to the region in question. Our concern also seems right, because we see it behind this tourist agency again, and it has to be said that there is Andy Vajna in the background, there is Orbán Rachel, there are the very valuable properties, and there are already the rumors that no one has actually contradicted, for example, about Siófok, that one of the very, very valuable properties of Lake Balaton, which at the moment is the Balaton Shipping Company. its site, that small island in downtown Siofok, will be pateroed from there, because Andy Vajna has cast an eye on it, and there will be some kind of casino or I don't know what he's going to build. Unfortunately, these are not airborne things, because we have seen a lot of examples of what these background interests and background circles look at, they get for themselves. Then the discussion about how to use the reconstruction of the Sió lock to move the entire Bahart site up or down - a matter of point of view - to another place along the Sió and free up that very valuable property. It is certainly not certain that the people of Balaton, especially the people of Siófok, would benefit from this investment, and I hope that I can still afford to talk about it, honourable Member, if you constantly remind me, in our local debates, that I am not Siófok. I don't think it takes a Siofok to see this. So I ask the government to finally come up with a concept for Balaton after six years of government, which includes whether we should go along with the concept of water, architecture, tourism or other aspects of the concept, what is our goal at all with Lake Balaton. We want to use it on a tourist basis, we want to make it a fishing haven, or maybe we want to make it a victim of something completely different, because all of this requires other tools and other target systems, because what is good for a swimmer from a water quality point of view is not good for a fisherman; what is good for water sports lovers, let's say, jet skis, is again not sure whether it is ideal for a beachfront or not for a sailor who wants to travel by sea yacht. [[17 .30]] So there's a knot-knot angle. I am not talking about the water level anymore, that what is good for tourism, by the way, is not necessarily good for individual southern coastal settlements who are flooded under certain weather conditions. We need a concept for that, too. So be it a tourist destination, and I didn't dispute the right to be a destination, I was just discussing the phrase "why don't we use a Hungarian term instead," for that matter, a destination or a destination or anything, just a Hungarian expression. This can basically be a good thing, only then it really happens along a single concept, and not that we have the source, then one person up there will decide what we're going to spend it for, then another source comes along, we'll decide again what we're going to spend it for, and maybe the two investments, let's say, are hitting each other or competing with each other, or contradicting each other face-to-face because there is no uniform concept. I will not repeat this term of a unified concept, and I think you have heard enough of me here this evening, and I would not take up any more of my fellow Members' time. Of course, if there were such answers, I would still have the opportunity to respond, but that is all I wanted to say for now. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Dr. István Józsa: Don't hold back because you're not Siófok, you can speak freely!]]
u2016-11-08-142	I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor Bányai in a normal time frame.
u2016-11-08-143	Thank you again, Mr President. If I may, dear Anita Heringes, I'd like to ask you a question, although this genre doesn't fit in with Parliament to ask each other. Room, Marynostra, exterminator, Nagybörzsöny. What do you think of these four settlements or settlements? [[Dr. István Józsa: Nothing!]] That's too bad, because a beautiful railway has been built or renovated for the last year, two years, and I was just over there last weekend. Looks like the little train is a success there, too, although it might be a success elsewhere. I wouldn't throw away the small train itself as a development just because it might appear in your head at every train development. It was also of great importance to this region of Börzsöny, the region of southern and northern Börzsöny, that its railway lines had been built, rebuilt, and that railway system of nearly 30 kilometers becomes the ornament of Hungary. Otherwise, there could also be an improvement in the supply-demand ratio, because even more guests could be accommodated by that line. The other thing is that I would like to note here that when the debate was on tourism destination management, why we speak with such foreign words - and attraction -, fact and truth, ugly and unhungarian terms. At one time, the tourism profession forced them to speak in the tourism sector. But with all due respect, I would like to say once again that the new Tourist Agency is the Tourist Zrt., as its ruins or successor, first of all, believe that if there is no unified organizational will in a country, in any sector where they can gather and collect the needs that appear in a rural tourism or in a larger area, in a region familiar with a medical development programme, or in the larger part of the country, in the Transdanubian or just around Lake Balaton, or even in the eastern part of the country from Zemplén to Nógrád, they can collect something from materials assembled by you and our constituents, our entrepreneurs, and they can't gather a single, non-concept from this, because I think there is a concept full of loft in every ministry, in every office, but they can tell us whether it's worth developing, say, X. Y., one of us, we can're going into the development of a healing site, and when we can't have a well drilled well under the thermal water - we can's - we can't even think of it's it's that it's that it's there, we can're there, that we can're not be able to do it's a lot to do it're there, because it're there, we can're. A centre capable of explaining to itself and to us that we should not be dealing with certain improvements, believe me, will be very important if you do this well, ladies and gentlemen. And beyond that, it's marketing. Hungary is one of the countries in Eastern Europe, Central Europe, which spends the least on marketing, otherwise we spend less on country image, country marketing, regional marketing, city, town marketing, and good wine on average. So if someone is finally doing this right - because I have been waiting for a long and long time for this to be a breakthrough - then Hungary can be as successful in tourism as the more developed parts of other Central European states, and those countries, say, in the Mediterranean region, where huge marketing resources are provided for as many northern, southern, eastern and western tourists as possible to visit them. And the other thing is, in the tourist organizations, here at the attraction development, let me tell you a thing or two. Compared to most of them, I had the opportunity to manage and manage tourist development, account for and not fail. There is one big secret about attraction development: it will not be a good attraction because I invented it and I want to do it, it will be because they can sell it, can they believe with the guests that it is worth coming, say, to taste other food than the fisher's juice, or to go to another event outside the sausage festival for Békéscsaba. These are also attractions, by the way, but this is not as effective as what can be shown daily. Hungary is very far behind in this European ranking, not from our fault, simply from our historical characteristics and local built and natural environments, it is not possible to run a business in tourism every season in most parts of the country. Here I would also like to say to Lajos Kepli that if what is at Lake Balaton today is unconventional, then I would like to congratulate him. I rarely get to Lake Balaton because we are far away from it, I am impressed by what I see on Lake Balaton in the development that has been achieved by entrepreneurs, municipalities and everyone involved in this. As a lowlander, it's always a big deal for me, it's a great experience to visit the Hungarian sea, I think it's wonderful. We had four days in the summer when we were on vacation in Gyenesdias - I didn't put this on my pages because it wasn't public, but we were there - and it was a beautiful place, by the way, I was incognito in the district of Congressman. Fantastic what I saw there, beautiful town of Keszthely. So what I'm saying is that I'd like to come back every year, if I have the opportunity and the financial opportunity with my children and the rest of my family to go and see the northern shore of Lake Balaton again. I would accept this inconclusiveness to all of Bács-Kiskun, Peace, Csongrád, I would accept it for all the other eastern parts of the country. Believe me, there is no need to make so much noise about the problems around Lake Balaton, because I think that is an unnecessary cry from Congressman Kepli. I think there are huge things there, and don't mention jet skis, because that's what got the hair up on my back; the use of all kinds of explosive devices is forbidden on Lake Balaton, as far as I know. But I'm telling you, I know about the Great Plain, and maybe you know about the area around Lake Balaton. [[Lajos Kepli: That doesn't mean they're gonna keep it.]] And here's a comment: dear Congressman Sallai said that centralization is such a crappy thing, because it takes away the ability of the local initiative, and so and so and so and so. Then, in the same paragraph, he said that the previous developments had been messed up. Congressman, all these developments have been based on a local initiative so far. It will probably continue to do so, because the private sector will not begin to develop at the order of Gustáv Bienerth, or at the order of the Secretary of State or Minister, if it does not make sense, and the rest. [[István Hollik: That's right!]] But we need entrepreneurs to do that. You may list all the Fidesz entrepreneurs who want to apply, want to develop - so apply, improve, but I don't think it's closed for you either. But I beg you, the problem now is that if there is a local initiative and we are developing a mess, because there are 119 settlements in Bács-Kiskun, 226 throughout the South Great Plain, and everyone wanted to make some kind of urban development. It was a mess, because we didn't agree with the people of the Arctic, like Jánoshalma, Kiskunhalas and Baja, what they wanted, but there was a principle of directing how much resources there were, completely destroyed by the decision makers of the time, in which you and many of us might have been involved. But it is not unconceptual that if such a decision-making takes place locally, and it is not a mistake that it was not exactly centralized, we believe that it was not, but the decision is in Szeged or Miskolc or Kaposvár or in Pécs, where someone probably knew why he had decided, whether in a political or economic sense. So I don't think we should say something that contradicts each other so much in some of these thoughts, because we want to de-honest something in any way. And in closing, dear Congressman György Szilágyi, I don't think it's manly to mention a lady all the time, five times in her speech, and five times in the previous one, who isn't here, is not a representative, and her main crime is that she's the Prime Minister's daughter. It's rude. In private, we have to talk to him about what's wrong with the Prime Minister's daughter, and I don't think it's appropriate for a man to marry a strange woman whom he doesn't know, who hasn't hurt you, who doesn't know you, and you don't know him. Only Anita Heringes could do this as a woman to another woman, but it is not feminine that a man who is not here, who is not part of today's debate, even though he is involved, does not fit. I don't have to protect the Prime Minister's daughter, but believe me, many people don't like it, not just me, not everyone else. In conclusion, I believe that the tourism law itself, which lies before us, provides the framework for the Hungarian tourism sector, so that if there are people, women and men who want to enter into this sector, it will probably fill the framework that the creators of the law have set for it. I wish us good luck with that, by the way. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[17.40]]
u2016-11-08-144	I now give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek.
u2016-11-08-145	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, It is rare when such dialogue takes place between the pro-government representatives and the opposition, because it is rare to have three or four who are willing to take part in the debate, so I take advantage of the possibility that if I do not get angry and react immediately to a few things. The first important thing that Mr Bányai has drawn attention to is what he thinks is inconsistent with, although it is not that this must then be regulated by law. If you have been dealing with this in recent decades - as you say you have been doing - then you are aware that all counties, small regions, have developed tourism development concepts. Hungarian Tourism Ltd. He has gone through the country and has done these concepts by region and priority area. You know what the problem was? The fact that during the allocation of funds, when they applied, no one took into account what was in the concepts. But the concepts could have been developed by local areas, the local mayors, local tourism entrepreneurs, and with such a level of regulation, if someone had respected these concepts and wanted to apply them, say, in development policy for the allocation of funds in the EU, it would have been appropriate for such professional inconsistencies, such as those you report and I report, not to happen. However many places... I live in a place where medicinal tourism is a priority area, in all the surrounding settlements, even where there was never a beach, they made a good beach everywhere, and now these 4,000, ten thousand settlements compete with each other, how to take away the same few ten thousand guests from each other, because there was virtually no concept of what kind of service to develop for. And the reason for that is that... It is not that there is no need for a concept of tourism development, but in my original speech I said that there is a great need for it. My claim that this law alone cannot replace dialogue with local service providers is that it cannot replace it with mayors and local development policy, which is a problem, and that it is moving it towards centralization. So the fact that there have been inconsistencies so far is a very big problem, but basically it always indicates inconsistencies between the development of applications and decision-makers, when practically without looking into what fits into the concept of tourism development in a region, what is not, they supported everything. And by the way, there were obviously all kinds of concepts, some of which were perfect, some of which were all-inclusive, and then it was basically about getting an EAFRD application or two points here and there to fit the concept, and that was pretty much the objective. He mentioned one more important thing, which is also worth discussing, and that is the question of country image and marketing. Basically, the interesting thing is that, at the time of previous governments, not at the time of the Orbán governments, an amazing amount of money has gone into tourism development, with no concept, a great deal of money has gone into it, and now a significant part of these developments can't work economically, which is due, for example, to marketing shortages. What should be dealt with here in a conceptual way, let us say, by law or by the legislator, but even more so by the Ministry responsible for the sector, is how the improvements that have been made earlier can be carried out in order to promote its profitability and to help small regions and settlements. We totally agree that this is a problem, but in the law, there's only one word about it that you don't care about that. [[Gábor Bányai intervenes.]] So, basically, he's not trying to deal with the problems we're facing in rural areas at the moment, one by one. The only thing I'm asking you is... so I'm getting a little psyched when I hear this application, and I want you to improve, and I want you to think about it. That's about right. It's the same as when they say that if we know about corruption, then let's press charges, so it's the same thing. In 2010, I'll tell you honestly - and there may be a lot of people in the opposition who can pay for it - I trusted your government, I worked for a change of government, and we were constantly trying to improve it. During the 2010-11 tourism applications announced by the North Great Plain Regional Development Agency, we could not show anything that was not Fidesz interest and we had put... So millions of people went to design, tourist development, and the money was just distributed. So I ask you very much not to say this, because this is the same as when I report some member of your government to Peter Polt and establish the absence of a crime. We didn't stand a chance... [[Gábor Bányai intervenes.]] All right, I'm not saying that every settlement is similar, I'm not saying that it's universal everywhere, I can only say that there are negative experiences when with this life experience, which I've experienced from 10:00 to 10:00, when someone has made millions in development, acquaintances in hotel constructions of 10 million... - so they've tried to apply for a license procedure, and they didn't have a chance. And obviously these all contribute to the bad faith, if you like what Congressman Hollik asks me to do, that I am mistrustful. In fact, I have thought about this, and that is why it is a problem that if I do not write the text in advance, but try to participate in the debate, because I realized that I was wrong, and I apologize to my fellow Member, Anita Heringes, I am not saying that it should be withdrawn. They can do whatever they want, because actually, if they're gonna steal, they're gonna steal, whatever's in the law, that's the experience, even if it's paved with concrete. So, in fact, it is only a matter of detail whether they can do good with this legislation or not, it is a matter of intent, and it will be a question of government application, what happens in this legislation. As a result, I realized that we couldn't negotiate where, if the government wanted to, it wouldn't find the gap where money could be pumped out of it. Then I'll respond to one more thing right away. In the last two minutes, he told me about these castle renovations, municipal developments, and so on, and he literally asked me where the shit was. I can answer that in one sentence: the two million and the two and a half million per square metre, where the municipalities have done it. [[Dr. István Józsa: That's right!]] So we can give any number of examples of renovations around when we have unrealistically, incredibly overpriced development programmes in municipalities and not in small businesses, because a large proportion of small and medium-sized enterprises have seen how they can do their job, so that they come out best. But this kind of development is precisely in the municipalities and especially in the larger municipalities, I do not say that it is exclusively, but in many cases, my colleague Ákos Hadházy, who, for some reason, has a hobby of hiding these developments at night, can say any such thing, and I can say any number of such things from experience, where they have renovated something at a price of over two million square meters. And what's important is what... [[Gábor Bányai: Report! Report him.]] Yeah, I can't hear my fellow Member telling me to press charges and press charges right now. [[Gábor Bányai intervenes.]] [[Gábor Bányai intervenes.]] I'm over the 20 charges, without a substantial investigation of anything, and they never found a crime. (Gábor Bányai interrupts.) So it is obviously easy to give counsel. But let me continue this thought, if I may, Congressman Bányai. He said these castles and municipal developments. The problem is that in most cases the renovation of the castles has not been created in order to admit that it is a tourist attraction that would have made it economically self-sustaining, even in the best of cases. Look at the example of Sixty. I think Sixty made an exemplary hunting museum, and it's a pleasure to go in, to look around, and it's gonna be ruined. If you do not now give the Chamber of Hunting the proceeds that FM has collected from the hunting license and hunting tickets so far, 600 million, in order for the Chamber to take over the losses, the development would be ruined there, because the best developments cannot be operated without suitable parallel tourism developments and marketing. And even though a good goal is a good example, it doesn't work. But I'll give you another example: I've been to Lökösháza - I've been to nature conservation, I've had to go through local protected areas - there's a Breda castle not far from Lökösháza, Gyula, and it's a relatively narrow, the, the narrow, means that the entire castle has been renovated from less than 100 million sources in private investment. I was very, very freaked out at first, because huge, beautiful trees were cut down, but after that I had to make friends with this thing, because compared to many other castles in the region, this castle was renovated by example, and with a so-called light-painting service, with all kinds of colorful lamps on the white walls, this attraction can complement the tourist services in Gyula, the bathers from Gyula can take the bus to Lőkösháza, and they can also contribute to the job creation of Lőkösháza. There are castle renovations, and there are others, where they ring empty, and they're locked up, and we need to call some doorman to let us in if we want to see them. Therefore, it is not possible to regulate stupidity by general regulation, because, where someone would want to renovate a castle, this is a legitimate need, I think that preserving our architectural heritage is a very important goal, that preserving our castles, our mansion, is an important public task, and we do not dispute whether this should be done from tourist sources, the question is whether tourism is sustainable - sorry, I did not use the concept now from the point of view of ecotourism, but from an economic point of view - that is to say, they create economically sustainable development. And the problem is not, if you try to touch tourism with wise concepts, as I said in my original speech, it can be a blessing for each region, because it can be built on local features, but if this concept shows that there is virtually a municipal property here, let's renew it, and then there will be something, because now there is a tender source, then these resources will go away without virtually strengthening the sector. [[17.50]] And then I'll send you back a little bit more, if you don't mind, Congressman Hollik, obviously the analogy of the Danube bend is good because there are ten national parks in the country, covering the country pretty much. Imagine that these national parks do not develop evenly, even though there is Aggtelek, Hortobágy, Kiskunság, Duna-Ipoly National Park in your region, Duna-Drava, Balaton Highlands, Guards, an area of the country that would give the country the opportunity to develop ecotourisms that contribute to these areas and are not even. They're all state-owned. The only reason for this is that unfortunately - and I really appreciate it, but this experience, obviously I don't have to give you the positive examples that you've done in the last six years, you say enough - in national parks, in state forestry, there have been hundreds of millions of years of development, that there was nothing else to do with, but how much money can be pumped out. Leseks were built, and we don't have the maintenance capacity. In practice, they give 100 million infrastructure to public bodies, state forestry and national parks are really two perfect examples of this, where afterwards their maintenance costs, marketing and organisation have no resources and cannot operate them economically. In many cases there are positive examples and many negative examples. After six years of government, forgive me, but I do ask you to consider how many of these improvements are not for the common good. Because, at the moment, what is going on in the public forestry sector was typically that there is a service, while there is a public welfare function, as long as there is an EU resource or a central budgetary resource. In a place where real forestry is managed by public forests and there is a background to the use of public welfare functions for tourism purposes, at the moment the FM grants subsidies to public forestry to maintain them. It doesn't make sense. This makes sense if it actually generates income. It makes sense if you contribute to a living. What we see is obviously very, very important at the moment. When we go through the examples over and over again and we look at what happened... I didn't want to say anything at all, because there are enough Balaton MPs here, and as a lowland kid, I don't like to get involved because you see them better, but I can give you a concrete example at Balatonfenyves. I think he'll be known to all of you. With a meaningless megainvestment, four hectares were privatized by someone from Lake Balaton, so he took four hectares from a Natura 2000 area to make a luxury marina. Whose interest was that? Because it wasn't in the interests of the people who lived there, and they don't collect the local income. And what happened next to him? Next to Balatonfenyves there is Balatonmariafürdő, where the beach is virtually useless, and the entire local community, who built its small economy, its small shop and its small restaurant, will drink the juice. These are the improvements we're talking about. We can talk about a lot of MSZPs, but this could have been done with your support at the time of your governance, with your flagship 100 million EU allocation, so that the local authorities and government offices have assisted all the permits so that they will be as quick as possible so that EU funding will not be called off. Obviously, in such cases, we have to raise our voice when basically the beaches in the area, ecotourism, fishing tourism, have made all of them impossible in a small area with a stupid development. Don't tell me it's in any local interest or party interest or anything like that. No, it's a stupid decision with a bad government investment that wasn't supposed to happen. Obviously, if I were allowed one more sentence, I would fight for it and I tried actively to participate in the debate on the law because there are many areas, and if Congressman Hollik mentioned, for example, the old Gemer region north of Miskolc, which is there, these areas will have virtually no other option if we do not help them. There is a possibility of tourism services that can be created with local development: there is fishing tourism, there is hunting tourism, there is a place where ecotourism or nature-walking tourism can be found. The fear for me is that if a new waterhead tells me which direction a significant part of the resources should go in the construction of the destination system, they will not be able to manage that a significant part of the country, however, for these development policy purposes, will move away and fall, and indeed the country will go in the direction of ten, but there will be fifteen priority tourist destinations that work well, whether this is the capital city or Lake Balaton, or even the Danube bend, I wish it to be. This may be, but the problem is that it will take resources from all other regions, take away opportunities, and that competitive disadvantage will not be possible. That's my first concern. The reason I'm not asking you to withdraw this law, Mr. Secretary, is because I think that if you want something good out of it, you can make good out of it, if you want to steal something, then no matter what's written in the law, you've found your way here, you'll still have it. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-08-146	Thank you. I can now give Congressman Manninger the floor.
u2016-11-08-147	Thank you very much. Honourable Members, I'll try to sum it up briefly, in almost two minutes, so that I don't have to live two minutes, but I'd like to respond quickly to a few things. The Balaton has a concept, and I don't want to say it now, because then it would really pass the time. I suggest that our fellow Member Kepli read the paper. In the newspapers this is described in detail, there have been a lot of press conferences about the various tourist developments in Balaton, which take place from operational programmes. He's been experiencing a lot of this lately. So there is a concept, the Balaton Development Council also has a finished concept, you can also learn about it. Another question is, of course, that every decision is not taken by a concept, that is absolutely true, as has been said here. There is no agreement in your party, for example, with a ferry. Whoever's in the west pool supports whoever's in the east, they're not, and so on. But it is understandable that some decisions are not included in a concept, so then concrete development decisions can always be debated naturally, but there is a concept. With regard to the region, I would like to say it again, that is, the destination area or destination area, and now, in this respect, it will have to be worked out in conjunction with the tourism profession, which Hungarian word can replace it, but the essence of this is the need for regional marketing. We agree that it is a multi-player story, so, obviously, in addition to the state, local actors, local authorities and economic operators also have important tasks. We could tell you a lot of examples here when economic operators have created very positive things, just mention the wine and gastronomy organizations in Balaton, which have been serving quality tourism lately. But I could also mention negative examples, and it was said that in a town on the shore of Lake Balaton the catering places were no longer open at night. They're already open today, by the way. Indeed, it was necessary to have an approach in the same way as the beach, not to close at 6:00 p.m. or to the multinationals that were open until 9:00 p.m. It's been a few years since the local merchants switched to this, but they switched. So the point is that this is happening in favour of a concept. I think that there is a role for local actors in this, but, as the examples here show, there is also a central role, so there is also a central professional role, as has been said here, for example - and I would like to respond lastly to this - in the case of the castle. Indeed, not all such developments, mainly designed to protect cultural heritage, are self-sustaining, that is without doubt; most of them are not even abroad. We have to make sure that it costs as little as possible, but the only way to do that is to look at it together with its indirect benefits. The Member said it here, but for example, a government figure can help these regional developments to develop not only the castle development but also the development of accommodation space, catering and tourist facilities. In the hope that the tourist agency will have such a positive role, as they promised to increase the revenue, I would suggest again, and if you will allow me, I will finish my comment by giving up my two-minute term. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-08-148	I give the floor to Congressman Attila Gelencsér in two minutes.
u2016-11-08-149	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On the opposition side, they have repeatedly said how good it is that there is finally a substantive debate, that they need it, that they want it. Well, that's not how it is on our side. We feel more of a depressing situation, which is almost masochism, because as a parliamentary clerk, I constantly experience that they are not talking about the law. It is confused, its genres are completely mistaken, not an interpellation, not an immediate question or agenda, where the government can be checked. [[Uproar, interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] We should talk about the law here. It's been two hours, and there's a lot of words or sentences about what's on the table, which is why the Secretary of State came here and wants to tell you or present the matter. So it's kind of hard, because the thing is, if we're having a health debate or a pedagogical debate here, you're saying the same speeches. It's deadly boring on this side, but it's on. However, for what I asked for, Mr Lajos Kepli, whose 12-minute speech was two minutes on the fact that he was a Balaton, he proved in his speech that he was not, since he had made the sale of the campsites after 2006. Now, if I'm good faith, I say he was wrong. [[18.00]] But after he tried to sell camping to the Fidesz, he obviously lied. Lajos Kepli, don't lie. The thing is, this happened before 2006. The post-2006 general meetings have nothing to do with this. To conclude, do you know why the tourists on the Lake Balaton are happy? That we stopped migration. If you're not talking about the law, I'm not talking about the law. They are pleased that we have built a fence, stopped immigration, and talked about Hungary as a refuge for Europe, where tourists come from Western Europe. This will help them; you did not vote for the amendment of the basic law this morning, you betrayed the tourist operators, betrayed those who would like to make a living on the shores of Lake Balaton or other destinations! Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-08-150	I will now give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr in two minutes and give the chair to Vice-President István Hiller. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2016-11-08-151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My fellow Member, Mr Gelencsér, did you not start by saying that it was not about the law, the law, the law, and then, interestingly, it was not about the law for a thought in the last half minute. Now, I have asked Mr Secretary of State twice about the law, and he is not worthy to answer questions raised in connection with the law, but rather to talk to my fellow Member Manninger and everyone else, but not to answer. Once again, I would like to say, Mr State Secretary, there are tangible, clear issues that have been raised. I don't need to repeat these questions to you. I'd like you to give me the exact, clear answers, but not in the end. Because the story, the fairy tale, shouldn't be among the genres of parliament. We need to talk about it, we need to discuss things, if you want them, or you want them to be able to make any opposition faction, in substance, to shape, shape and improve the issue. And the substance of the matter is to help you then, to ask you more questions, I would like to know, in effect, where this concept, from this draft law, shows how the growth of tourism's ability to maintain income will be safely achieved in the coming period. How, when? I could increase the questions. Or is it precisely that the effective use of European Union funds and, under the circumstances, Mr Secretary of State, how and when to use it without hijackings? With what guarantees? So, as a result of all this, what opportunities for job creation and expansion are expected? What is the range of these? And then I'm going to have to ask you other questions if you don't want to answer them now, in order to see if we can get to it one day and see if you can answer them. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-11-08-152	I welcome you, sincerely admiring your commitment to the subject and your persistent enthusiasm. It is my duty to draw your attention from the presidency to the observance of the house rules, which I will enforce, which happens to be that we welcome new ideas, and that the mother of knowledge will be revived at a later item on the agenda. Now, as the two-minute round is now complete, Congressman Szilágyi cannot be heard on this item for the first time. Here you go.
u2016-11-08-153	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to the things that have been said, which, in my opinion, are absolutely related to the law. Let me just say that I resent that Attila Gelencsér wants to determine what we are talking about - I think we are talking about the law in full - and Gábor Bányai, whose speech I was very much looking forward to, because I thought that he kept saying the various information during my speech so much that he would answer my questions, and then he did not answer any of the questions I asked. All he said was that we shouldn't mention Orbán Rachel. Well, when we're talking about the Prime Minister's daughter, who defines her field of expertise, and she says that her specialty is tourism, hospitality, attraction to hotels, and she goes there, I don't refer to Orbán as the Prime Minister's daughter, but as a specialist in tourism and hospitality, who is likely to have a great influence on this market, because unfortunately we've been used to the fact that the Prime Minister and his family, if they show up somewhere, will have a great impact on all of this. And what we need to talk about is that I have no idea, and that's what I asked, but they don't give me an answer as to why we need this law. Why do we need the tourist agency? I don't really understand it - let me quote something - the quote says: "Hungarian tourism is leading the world, its performance is internationally outstanding, all its important indicators improved last year, the dynamic development of tourism is increasingly contributing to the growth of the Hungarian economy. Said Mihály Varga, your minister in March. Well, if everything is so good, as Michael Varga said, then why do we have to change that now? And that is our fear, and that is what we have said here several times, but we have not been answered - I am talking about you, too, Mr Hollik, because I will answer you - we have not been told here alone that, if Hungarian tourism is working so well, and I have actually said this, that there have been developments, that we could notice developments from 2014 onwards, then why change has to be made. There are two reasons. One is that you have realised that if Hungarian tourism starts to develop more normally, there will be a lot of money in it, and I would like to use this money to make the right profit. That's one of the options. Why do we say that? Because that's what they've been doing in almost all the areas they've touched. The other option is that you want to manage Hungarian tourism in Hungary because of some individual interests. Then let's start with Congressman Hollik. Congressman, we have been used to it recently, although as a KDNP Member, as a Christian Democrat, it is not the best quality that you claim to be untrue even on Sunday. Today, it's true that it's not Sunday, but it's also false, because it's written in the record exactly what we said, and this is what he put in my account, that I said, so I asked if you really wanted to create a tourist destination? You said I said that, didn't you? That's not what I said, Congressman. In the record, you have to look back at what I said. Did I say that after six years, they really got there to create tourist destinations? There's a huge difference between the two. Do you know what the other means? [[Gábor Bányai intervenes.]] It means that you've been in government for six years, and it's true that you haven't been in here in the previous period, so you don't know that six years ago you would have had the opportunity to develop and do these. Congressman, I told you, you didn't answer, so don't say anything. Press the button and answer my questions, because that would be easier. You didn't answer anything except that you said you shouldn't talk about Rachel Orbán here, even though she's supposed to be a tourist professional. Let's keep going, shall we? What else did you say? To whom I thank you for your speech and where we have heard substantive things, by the way, it was clearly Mr Witzmann's speech. And that's really the big question. If it has evolved, and I said so, has tourism developed, that if tourism revenues have increased, and it can be shown, there is a development, then why should we change the structure? Then what good is it if we change it? And it is also a question, and it would also be good to clarify that, and these are the important questions about tourism, as to why revenues have increased. Did the revenue increase because the service improved in Hungary? Because people already receive quality services in Hungary? Is that why revenues have increased, or are there other reasons for this? Because then you will have to look at whether this is going to be a continuous development, because if the quality of the services has really increased, that if there is indeed a solvent demand in Hungary and they really receive normal services, which is what they need, then they can actually develop further tourist revenues. If this is not the reason, but we are artificially directing demand there, say, with different discounts, different corporate discounts or other means, then it may not be sustainable in the long term. There's a huge difference between the two. And the service they receive in Hungary, we agree with the fact that the Hungarian tourism service includes a lot of things. It includes what kind of accommodation they get, including what programs there are, which I've talked about many times, whether they feel good about what service is, what infrastructure there is in the area, how they can get there; and it includes what they find new things, and what marketing is like. [[18.10]] Because even though there is a lot of things in a destination, if people, by the way, have said that, Congressman Bányai, they do not know, for example, where to go and what to do there. The problem is that in these things that you are telling us now and you are not answering them, and you said that Congressman Hollik will be, in the case of distillations, you will mark those destinations, settlements and everything else, where you will determine what improvements need to be made. [[István Hollik: No, that's not what I said.]] I mean, they're gonna determine what they're gonna spend the money on. Congressman, that's what you said, and if you don't, disprove me. It's one of the great fears. 'Cause what's gonna happen? Let's take an example. Don't believe me, they always say that opposition representatives can't be believed, believe their own representatives. Didn't you read Zsolt Tiffán's words from a year ago to the Prime Minister? What do you think Zsolt Tiffán said in that? In Baranya County, who do you think, say, in Baranya County, will determine these development funds? Are you going to determine who Zsolt Tiffán was talking about? The Fidesz and MSZP merger that Zsolt Tiffán talked about? Who said word for word that Viktor, notice, these are mobsters, they share the money in the county. Don't you think these people are gonna do the same thing? Well, that's what we're afraid of. We fear that everything will be centralized and then decided by the various lobbying interests, and it is not in Hungary's interest or in the interests of the region in which they will spend money or what kind of money they will spend on these developments. So I say again, we want to know what the reason is. If Minister Varga says that this is a success sector - he said in March - if this is a success sector, why not this success sector, they are trying to change the current operation and why have they made structural changes on it? Tell me! Tell me what the reason is. Congressman Bányai could press another button and answer questions, apart from talking about Rachel Orbán. And then here's what I wanted to mention, but just for the record, because Congressman Manninger and I have discussed that, yes, the two examples I have raised are the two Fidesz city leaders, both in Balaton, Füreden and Keszthely. You have to go down anyway, and if you mentioned Keszthely, go to Bath, see the two settlements with almost identical characteristics, see the attraction of the tourist! It's full of programs, they don't know, they can't make enough accommodations to keep it out of use. If you go to Keszthely, you'll find nothing. [[Gábor Bányai: That's not true!]] You're not gonna find programs, but you have the same talent, you have two fidesz leaders, and that's very, very important. Maybe you don't think so, because, as you said, you haven't been to that area for the first time. Of course, if it was the first time, it's a novelty, but if someone's been to Lake Balaton, they know exactly where to go, which settlements, where to find programs and where to feel good if they go with two children, and those two children want to find, say, other entertainment than going into Lake Balaton. These are important questions that should be discussed. [[Gábor Bányai: We were in Gyenesdias and found programs.]] I don't understand, Congressman. [[György László László Lu. He said that he was in Gyenesdias and that they had found a program.]] I promise, because I see you and your people here, I promise you, I will never argue with you again, because you have the Philosopher's Stone, and you know everything. [[István Hollik laughs.]] You guys are really good at everything, and you're really good at it. You are also a great expert, Mr Hollik, and we are very pleased that you have finally come to this House and honour us with your speeches, an experience. You know what the problem is? You're not coming anywhere near the secretary of state we've never had any problems with professionally or in any way, you're not coming near him, you're just an arrogant person, you can talk to him normally. If we're gonna argue with someone, they're gonna be like the Secretary of State sitting here and not like you. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-08-154	Now, please, a two-minute lap begins with a number of participants. With all due respect, we have had the opportunity to deal with each other today, and now let's try the subject. On behalf of [[István Hollik: How much can you lie?]] Congressman Mihály Witzmann, for example, please, in two minutes.
u2016-11-08-155	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. My apologies for asking to speak again, and I do not wish to maintain the luxury of burdening myself with a personal debate with my fellow Member Kepli, but I have noted a few things here. When my fellow Member, Mr Lajos Kepli, said that there is no sign of progress in Balaton tourism, there is no development, he said at the time that it is more beautiful and better, the Adriatic is cheaper - when, in contrast, he faced the data of the number of guest nights or the number of guests, or the tendentious increase in tourist revenues, he proved that there is potential, yet there is progress in Lake Balaton. When he said that there was no money, the problem is that the government took the 300 billion - maybe even made a press release or a press release about it, or maybe even spoke here - when we now see that the jacket is buttoned again at the Tourist Agency, it will be buttoned again, and perhaps the news will tell us that there will be more than 300 billion for the development of Lake Balaton, then we can see that there is money. So there's potential, there's money, and now my fellow Member Kepli is getting involved in that good, good, there's money, there's potential, but there's no concept. So, after a bit of the concept, I read the concept of the Balaton Development Council, I read the many preparatory materials, and I also took part in many discussions on the concept of tourism, about the work of the Hungarian Tourism Agency. By the way, my fellow Member, Mr Rig, mentioned here, quite rightly, wine tourism, the use of the capacities of the backseat settlements, bicycle roads, the development of sailing ports, you mentioned the issue of the Badacsony ferry, the sluice of Siófok. I report that, as far as I know, a government decision will soon be made on this matter, and they are part of the concept. So we see that there is a concept, then they end up saying it's good, good - and again I'm referring to Lajos Kepli - but why use the word destination. So it's a little bit of a bunny joke category, if you're wearing a hat, it's also a problem if you're not wearing a hat, it's a problem. Thank you very much for your words of appreciation to György Szilágyi [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I just want to say very quickly why we have to change. Because there is a strategic sector in the national economy, and I think, by the way, in agreement with you, there is much more potential in it. At the moment, the national economy receives 10 percent of tourism. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-08-156	Thank you, and you'll be able to give us your opinion in two minutes. Congressman Kepli, Jobbik, please.
u2016-11-08-157	Thank you very much. I originally wanted to respond to Congressman Gelencsér, who had no intention of coming down from the pulpit because he came to the house for a slap because he said that Fidesz County General Assembly leaders had nothing to do with the traipsing of the SCD campings. Well, who was the one who, in 2006-2007, when it seemed that nothing was going to happen to the entire investment, extended these contracts and contractual amendments? For example, in Veszprém County - God rest his soul! - Jenő Lasztovicza, Chairman of the Fidesz County General Assembly, signed by Jenő Manninger in Zala County, was the President of the General Assembly. And who was it who, in conjunction with the MSZP here in Parliament, amended the Balaton Act so that the real estate of the SCD was worth several times from one moment to the next, because it increased its built-in capacity because the rules that fundamentally affect the value of the property became more favourable? So they gave the SCD a billion-dollar fortune, and then nobody, the Fidesz or the MSZP - but by then Fidesz was a government after 2010 - didn't charge the SCD, nobody held the rapporteur or the buyer accountable for the investments that hadn't been made. Technically, there was no accountability in this case. And with Congressman Witzmann, we could obviously argue until morning. Forgive me if we're at a slow point here that I have an opinion on the subject. I've given my opinion, I think it's very clear and clear, always reacting with the same lies over and over again. [[Mihály Witzmann: Slowly I say, look out!]] I don't know what to do with that. I didn't tell people to go to the Adriatic. I'm slowly telling you, Congressman, I never said that to go to the Adriatic instead of the Balaton. For the last time, Mr President, I promise I will not abuse your patience and your fellow Members' patience...
u2016-11-08-158	Good for you.
u2016-11-08-159	There's no point in getting into a debate where you're talking to the wall and you don't listen to your arguments. I think the facts speak for themselves. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-08-160	Thank you very much. Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary of the Parliament, in two minutes.
u2016-11-08-161	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There is only one thing I can trust, not that the Secretary of State will answer on the way, because I can see his relatively, to say it in a solid form, stubborn attitude, which will attach him to the chair and do not want to take part in a debate on the way, but I must say that everything he will say at the end will obviously attract attention, at least that I trust. I hope that at least you have taken note of the questions and you will want to answer them, because it can at least help you to think further in a detailed debate. But we will leave this part, and I urge Mr Secretary of State to take part more intensively in the debate next time, because it may help you to think more. [[18.20]] In addition, I would just like to say that this draft law obviously has a weight on how the Hungarian economy is going to develop, because when, within a GDP of roughly HUF 33 thousand billion, there is about 10 percent of the size of tourism, when there are various figures, but today, among Parliament's walls, we have recorded the number of people in employment with an official capacity of 340 thousand people, I think that this topic deserved more - once again - in terms of the answers that have not been answered. It would have been possible for Mr Secretary of State to refute the approaches with the names, which, for me, represent the acceptance and acceptance on behalf of the Secretary of State. Of course, at the end of the day, you can rebuttal when no one can speak. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-11-08-162	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Welcome to the fourth hour of the debate. Congressman Witzmann has asked to speak. Do I have to? [[Defiance. Michael Witzmann:]] Okay, well, if I have to, I have to, I just want to know. It's okay.
u2016-11-08-163	Thank you very much, Mr President, and I have the honour of your patience. It's really short because I just couldn't finish it. Why am I happy with today's debate? I am glad because as a Balaton representative, I see that tourism seems to be moving the benches, moving the benches, the question of Lake Balaton. That means he's got some kind of power, potential, and potential. Indeed, staying on the track, as my colleague György Szilágyi said earlier, I am trying to reason with the numbers. In 2009, when it was at a low point, tourism was able to take 7 percent of the national economy out of the economy, and in 2014-15 - when we can provide annual data, we do not know the year 2016, but it will be better than the previous one - it already has a share of more than 10 percent of the national economy. So we can really talk about a decisive strategic sector for the national economy. Unfortunately, my colleague Lajos Kepli is not here, but I would still like to tell him. [[Lajos Kepli, from the expert box: But here I am!]] - Oh, good, Louis, you're here. , here it is, excuse me - as you mentioned the camping on the shore of Lake Balaton from 2006 onwards, the county authorities, the President of the Somogy County Municipality in 2006 was indeed my colleague, Attila Gelencsér, who was my colleague, but the problem, my dear fellow Member, is that the decision on the Siotour campsites was dated before 2006, so I am quite sure, although I was not in favour of him not being able to sign any positive or negative decision on this campsite. We need to see who the president was then. Indeed, I think, my dear fellow Member, when you said you were concerned about Lake Balaton, I would ask you to calm down, because there is no need to worry, and on the other hand I think you are not worried, but you are alarmed. He's always trying to scare me. There's no season start, no season review, you don't worry about anything so enthusiastic about Lake Balaton. I ask you to calm down, because in terms of both potential, developmental data, statistical data, the availability of money and budget support and the concept, this day has proved for sure and clearly that both money, resources, intent, potential and concept are available. Let's get together and work so that Balaton can improve. I think that as a local patriot representative, this is in the interests of all of us, regardless of whether they live and operate on the northern or southern shores of Lake Balaton. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-08-164	Dear Parliament, I'm only asking if anyone else would like to speak because of the obligation imposed by the house rules. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State Major if he wishes to answer. [[On Dr. János Fónagy's signal:]] Here you go.
u2016-11-08-165	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, From the very beginning, I tried to take note of the consonant questions, not only by complying with the last call. As a token of my respect for the House and the President, I don't rate anyone, even though almost every speaker took the liberty of applying personal qualifications. With your permission, I reject this - I repeat, because of my respect for the House and the President. If you will allow me, I will group the issues raised by a large part of my opposition fellow Members who have dealt with whether or not they should be a new organisation. He took care of it from the point of view that if tourism is going well in Hungary, then why should it be new, why not everything remains. We didn't say for a moment that it was going wrong, and the comments were different with a voice, but they acknowledged that today this sector is going well, giving about 10 percent of GDP. I started my comment, the expo, the general opinion, yes, with six years of experience that there is more potential in tourism than we have taken from it so far. It's going well, but it could go better. That's why we're saying we should do something else, improve this. So one is why you need it: that's why. The second was that there was a person who challenged the municipalities and the basic level and assumed that they had lost it, and then the same speakers in the other half of their sentences said that there was a terrible new centralization, and here the state wants to get everything. Ladies and gentlemen, What we talked about today or should have talked about - I think a large part of the comments also dealt with professional issues - is just a lack of middle level, a middle level linking basic initiatives and top-level public coordination. That's what they're all about. I mean, I didn't like the destination either, I bought the destination for myself, the tourist destination designation; absolutely true, at least speak Hungarian in the Hungarian Parliament. A medium level is required to identify, establish, prioritise and finance tourist destinations. This is the task of tourist destination management. This is the middle level that this bill is essentially about. Tourism regions are still needed, but the regions themselves, with few exceptions - and this has also been confirmed by the comments - cannot be sold on their own. Everyone has different signs, but he told me that it's the tourist result that can be sold. It brings jobs, it brings income, it brings money, it brings life to the region when it can be sold. As dear as it is to our hearts something is, if it cannot be sold, then as a tourist production, we are not doing much good. At present, and this sprőd truth - sorry, I should have made it clear that I am not a Balatonian, and what is more, I did not set foot in Balaton until I was 50 years old; I am a Dunaian, and I say this because there is no bias in me - in Hungary today there are virtually three destinations, tourist destinations that can be sold to foreigners: Budapest, Lake Balaton and Lake Tisza. This is not good, because such areas should also be set up in the rest of the country. We brought this bill here so that there would be an organization, an apparatus that would collect the bottom-up initiatives and treat them - not a good Hungarian term - at project level, if you like, to make them sellable products. The other one, mentioned by my fellow Member Anita Heringes, but also by the others, is the issue of real estate, the assumption that this is all for a very conscious criminal purpose in order to steal valuable property. [[18.30]] At the same time, I do not dispute for a moment that there are many real estate and real estate units in Hungary today that should be used much better. From Club Tihany, there's more to the list. I am no longer so with castles and castles, to say that it is permissible, because in recent years many of these have been successfully restored. I would recommend to my colleague in Gur that he visit Diósgyőr, his own town, and see how well he has recovered, but many other castles have also been built. Or nearby in Edelény, so I don't go too far, and then I'm not talking about Esterházy and the others. In fact, someone mentioned that the precious castles and castles here were being robbed. Please, there are castles for sale. Our problem is that there are dozens of castles in Hungary that we cannot yet find a farmer. We're looking for people or companies that buy it, renovate it, and even give the neighborhood an opportunity to create a job, utilizing it for some purpose. I'm just saying, and perhaps Congresswoman said that the poor locals there are only cooks and waiters and I don't know what they are. Well, there's not enough demand for countess today. It's obvious that employees go to a hotel and not castle lords. CHAPTER XXI There's not enough demand for this in the century, but I don't want to joke about it. Returning to real estate: the trust is not a target, but an asset. This organisation only accounts for real estate that has been and will continue to be owned by a hundred percent of the state. It was said here that we would give it to friendly companies for 30 years, which was also mentioned by several speakers. The state doesn't take real estate, this law doesn't include anything like that, either municipal or private. The draft law proposes special arrangements for real estate which is still owned exclusively by the State. In the case of these real estates, a trust law is established only between MNV Zrt. and a trust contract. The function of this is not the acquisition of the property, but the rapid and efficient execution of an investment. When the investment is completed, the State will hand over the facility to the person presenting a business plan guaranteeing sustainable operation. Ladies and gentlemen, It's called a market society. Whoever agrees to run something well, the state will give it to them. The change of regime was meant not to be run by the state, but by the market. Indeed, the draft trust law has 30 years, but otherwise the parties may differ, may be shorter, may be longer. So much for friendly companies. There was talk of various accelerations. Allow me here, well, not a private comment, just an intervention, because many people have mentioned that there is no time for archaeological research. I know, not from the field of tourism, but from infrastructure development, that archaeological research in Hungary today has become an independent business and is costing Hungarian road construction billions. So, in my heart, I'd like to put a stop to that. I'd like to return to the Old Testament, where they say we should leave the buried in peace, if 3 thousand rests there, then continue to rest there, not always having to dig everyone up. But that's me, I'm telling you, otherwise it's not my place to comment. It has been mentioned by my colleagues there at Lake Balaton that this promise will not be withdrawn, as is this much mentioned in the 2015 300 billion package. The previous government decision was also preceded by a thorough preparation, but it was necessary to review it because it consisted of a lot of elements, it consisted of a lot of small development opportunities, and, in addition to spending a lot of money, it did not ensure the implementation of a successful tourist destination programme. Therefore, and here my colleague Gúr has always asked me for the concept, I agree, I think my colleague Bányai said that he is full of the attic concept, and that we are doing well, everyone is doing well with it; but I am not sure that this was an acceptable and feasible concept. He's gone, he's gone, and the only thing I agree with is that anyone who's not here and who can't answer isn't the person to address comments, so I'll answer my fellow Member Sallai another time. I said the concept to my fellow Member in Gur, and we believe that consistency is ensured in the draft law, and I would be very happy to send the castle and castle programme in writing, a six-page material. I don't want to abuse Mr. President's trust and read it to you. Finally, a final remark is that I always listen to your comments with great interest. For 26 years, all I've heard from you is questions. If I heard the answer, I'd be very pleased. On this basis, I ask you, because many of the comments have shown that this topic is important to the majority of the speakers, the vast majority of my fellow Members, and now let us get past the daily political overtones, there is a substantial professional contribution to these, so please submit the amendment proposal to whoever really has it. I am convinced that at the end we will be able to draw up a text that is acceptable to the majority of Parliament, not to everyone, but to the majority. Thank you for the detailed debate and thank you for your comments. Mr President, thank you for your patience. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-08-166	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill amending certain laws relating to electronic communications and consumer protection until closure. Government referral T/12733. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr. Ákos Kara, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda. Mr. Secretary, if you're more comfortable and better able to perform, feel free to sit down.
u2016-11-08-167	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your attention. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, At the end of 2015, you may remember that Hungary's Government, after consulting the Hungarian people, launched the programme, based on the opinion of the Hungarian citizens. The purpose of this programme is to ensure that digital development is achieved everywhere, and that Hungarians, our countrymen, can safely use broadband services and, of course, opportunities.In 2016, the government started to implement the programme, and many of the results are already known to you. Next year, the VAT on internet subscriptions is down by 18 percent, we plan a lot of professional programs. If you don't mind, I'm not talking about these now because of the shortness of time or the importance of other topics. By the end of 2018, we will make the super-fast internet available to all households that will require it. You've heard, you've seen, in the last few weeks, 137 districts have begun to develop in this regard. [[18.40]] Of course, we still have a lot to do to meet our goals. The complexity of the development work needed to access the national broadband internet requires constant regulatory review and simplification. This was previously called legal accessibility in this type of professional-political debate. However, this alone is not enough. The ever-growing super-fast Internet network will be joined by more and more of our countrymen, and as consumers, it is expected that more and more internet services will be used. We must therefore ensure the proper protection of consumers on the Internet. With the rapid spread of e-commerce, it is important to ensure that service companies and businesses comply with their rules. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment to the e-communications and consumer protection law before you serves the above-mentioned objectives, thus proposing legal accessibility for broadband networks and laying down consumer protection rules in the context of e-commerce. Ladies and gentlemen, Domestic e-commerce is growing explosively, so we consider it a priority government task to strengthen the protection of consumers involved in online trade, given that a significant proportion of retail traffic is transferred to this space, this medium. If you'll allow me, I'll refer to important data. According to KSH data, parcel and online retail sales have been continuously expanding over the last decade. The volume of traffic has increased on average by 38 percent per year since 2010 compared to a year earlier. What awaits us in this regard? If we look at an international comparison, compared to 43 percent of the EU average in Hungary in 2015 there was 23 percent of the population regularly involved in domestic e-commerce. Ladies and gentlemen, More and more businesses are choosing the Internet as a sales channel, and more and more customers are taking advantage of this opportunity because of its rapid, flexibleness or other advantages. At the same time, the audit experience shows that the share of infringements is high in the current domestic e-commerce market. More effective action is needed, and once again, I would like to say that it should be taken into account that we are creating a rule for the future, but for the near future, with regard to the booming growth in e-commerce. The bill therefore contains the following main elements of substance in this respect, and my fellow Members have obviously read the bill, so I would briefly refer to these important points. Thus, on the one hand, the inclusion of companies which have committed serious infringements in the field of e-commerce in a public blacklist on the Internet; the identification of a dissuasive penalty band in the event of an infringement involving this activity of e-commerce undertakings, and the standardisation and clarification of the practice of issuing voice material at the telephone customer service of a public service postal service. My fellow Members and all those who are watching this parliamentary debate, I would like to call for a result of the Internet consultation. One question was answered by nearly 50 percent and 44 percent of respondents who said that they needed a more effective consumer protection system and consumer fines. Obviously, they said that because they have such experiences that they consider it necessary to make changes. In addition, 60 percent of respondents would disclose the names of companies which committed serious infringements in the field of internet commerce and blacklist them. So the programme of digital well-being must have relied on the comments and opinions expressed by the residents, and you may have met with this, if you have carefully read our bill, the ones set out in it. I would just like to point out that domestic e-commerce has been reviewed in the framework of the Digital Prosperity Programme, on the basis of which the government has adopted a report on the functioning and fine-taking practices of the consumer protection institution system. Ladies and gentlemen, E-commerce is one of non-traditional forms of trade, where consumers need greater protection from the nature and perspective of the transaction. When we talk about issues of principle in relation to consumer protection and this bill, please take this into account in any case. This is a very important aspect, less so with regard to a face-to-face commercial practice. There, too, the consumer may be vulnerable, but in the case of online shopping, the consumer can be more vulnerable. So I would like to ask that, when you look at questions of principle, the various sanctions and different ways of punishing principles are in any way linked to this. The obligation to provide detailed information on internet commerce, which has been in force for more than two years, is therefore not merely an administrative requirement in our assessment, but a requirement to compensate for the specific characteristics of online sales. The issues of consumer protection in e-commerce need to be addressed in a complex way in order to strengthen and enhance consumer confidence. In response to this, the Digital Prosperity Programme, taking into account the relevant results of the InternetCon, which I have presented to you, required the implementation of the blacklist, which includes the public database of e-commerce companies committing a serious infringement of consumers' rights in Internet commerce. Ladies and gentlemen, In our plans, if you agree with this, we would include these companies from 1 January 2017, obviously in the interests of consumers. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that we have some very important experience from previous consumer controls. These experiences encourage us to take government action as, on the basis of the controls carried out by the Consumer Protection Authority, the average error in the results of the last three years has been 80%. Follow-up controls, and this is very important in terms of the principles of the current draft legislation, are 41 per cent in 2013 and 59 per cent in 2014 and 63 per cent in 2015, so, unfortunately, the share of the re-absorbed deficiency is constantly increasing every year. Therefore, I think we think that there is a need for action. Ladies and gentlemen, We would like to change the practice of fines on the protection of the interests of fair, law-abiding businesses, buyers and, not least, the e-commerce sector. I would like to tell you that when determining the level of the fine, which you can read in the draft law, we refer to the opinion of industry representatives of economic and commercial life, which is the proposal for a fine bar proposed by the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. This is in the proposal that you have read in the draft law. Of course, vis-à-vis SMEs, with regard to multinational companies, we continue to include the maximum possible amount of fines for repeated infringements of the government much higher. This could be up to HUF 500 million, or it could be up to HUF 2 billion if it is harmful to the physical integrity and health of a wide range of consumers. This penalty weight, I think, is indeed a serious and significant change compared to the previous one. At the same time, I would like to say and it is very important - we are facing a debate, it is good to fix the principles - that, in the case of an infringement committed for the first time, the first warning principle continues to apply. It is not, therefore, that a Hungarian SME would suffer a financial disadvantage for the first time if the Consumer Protection Authority discovered a problem. There's no fine here. This is about drawing the company's attention to the right problems, and if they draw its attention and fail to comply with it in a broad deadline, then the fine may take place in the second case. Ladies and gentlemen, I think this is important, because in recent years we have been able to restore the Hungarian economy together with small and medium-sized enterprises, and we are consistently taking the principle that there will be no fines for the first time in terms of government attention, programme and cooperation for SMEs. [[18.50]] Ladies and gentlemen, The measures described above, therefore, form part of a well-thought-out legislative process in the area of consumer protection. You may recall that in recent times, we have successfully fought, fought, and, where appropriate, the power of legislation, which I believe has brought many people to their satisfaction in the country, against display of goods and other phenomena that harm consumers. I would like to point out that although there has been a significant decrease in the number of abuses detected at the display of goods, the next programme, which was ordered by the Ministry of National Development, from 10 to 25 November, will respond to the need to take various measures as legislators in the spring. Ladies and gentlemen, If it were to be summarized briefly, it could be said that if we have strengthened the e-commerce sector by making individual enforcement more effective over the past period, we plan to do so from the official side of this bill in the coming period. I would also like to refer to the issue of consumer protection, which can rightly be raised in the context of this submitted draft law, that I believe that, for example, in the coming year, it is important, for example, to verify whether public service providers and other undertakings operating customer services actually comply with the legal rules relating to the handling of oral complaints, without, of course, unduly and unlawfully imposing a written confirmation of the consumer's complaint, so I think that we have not only the current policy of thought-out consumer protection, but also other tasks. I am pleased to say to you that there is a very important role in the life of consumer protection in the application for a school for consumer awareness, and a large number of applications have been received. Please make good news of this program. So far, 16 schools have applied, of which two schools have already received this recognition from Secretary of State in Dombóvár, and on Thursday in Keszthely another school will receive this title, and, thank God, now there are Hungarian schools across the border among applicants. Ladies and gentlemen, If I may, I would move on to the amendment on electronic communications, which is also included in the legislation. The main part of the proposal concerns the amendment of a law on electronic communications relating to the implementation of the super-fast internet, which aims to facilitate network development. Why is that important? I would like to give you some figures to make it easier for all of us to find out. According to our calculations, network development needs to be carried out in a phase of about 50,000 kilometres to build a national super-fast internet access. Of this, a completely new line has to be laid at about 10,000 miles [10,000 km]. This can be cheap, fast and efficient if the actors involved cooperate properly with each other. For example, developers have to agree with real estate owners in order to carry the cable through the property, agreement with the necessary utility service provider and the rest, so this line could be continued. Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of practical experience, these agreements have often been very difficult to come up with. In some cases, stakeholders have even abused their situation, thus preventing or significantly increasing the cost of network development. A clear legal environment is therefore necessary to facilitate the conclusion of the necessary agreements for network development, while respecting the rights of all parties, but excluding abuse. The bill before you, which you can read, therefore proposes the following. If you'll allow me, I would also like to make a brief, sketchy reference to this substance you know. The draft law therefore states that broadband network development must primarily be carried out in public areas. This rule has been in place for traditional utilities for a long time, and this principle will also apply to broadband developments in the future. If the development otherwise complies with the legislation on construction, environmental protection and other requirements, the owner of the public area cannot refuse to implement it. This provision also applies, of course, to municipal public areas. We want the acquisition of ownership contributions to be faster and more efficient. In this respect, there will be clear rules and deadlines on how and in what time the consent of the owners involved in network development can be requested. Ladies and gentlemen, In the event of a legal dispute, the law provides for a more effective procedure for public authorities. During construction works related to network development, I would like to refer to the fact that the parties cannot agree with each other, so they can turn to the National Media and Infocommunications Authority. The bill clarifies the rules of the procedure, preventing, among other things, a misguided delay on the part of the parties. So once again, we have taken good practice and good regulatory practices of other public utilities. Ladies and gentlemen, To sum up, the government's aim is to provide as many people as possible to access the super-fast internet, at least the possibility of doing so, and our goal is to ensure that the Hungarian people can use the services safely on the national network without endangering consumer rights. We believe that it is essential for Hungary's development and success in the spread of digitalisation to provide consumers with services that they can confidently use on a high-quality IT network. The government is working with social actors to achieve these objectives, and I would like to point out once again that in 137 districts, we have already started to solve the tasks related to the construction of the super-fast internet network, thereby creating the possibility of quality access for nearly 800 thousand Hungarians, our Hungarian compatriots. Ladies and gentlemen, Please support the bill. Thank you very much for your patience. Thank you again, Mr President, for your kind offer and gesture, so I could live with it. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-08-168	I'm happy for you. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to have keynote speeches. First up, Congressman Gábor Bányai, lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-08-169	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The bill before us basically imposes five laws to rewrite, discuss and improve certain rules on electronic communications and consumer protection, and it seems that the bill is trying to re-regulate two separate areas: we are trying to improve rules to promote the development of broadband internet networks and consumer protection legislation in the field of electronic commerce today. However, the amendments to the two legislations are closely linked and have been set up by the Digital Prosperity Programme, which has already been mentioned by the Secretary of State. The spread of fast and high bandwidth internet access not only leads to an increase in the number of Internet users, but is also an important tool for boosting the economy, and we must give space to it in any way. It is necessary to ensure that consumers' rights are not violated, as digitalisation can be effective and successful for everyone, so that it can base the development of the country and the economy. We're trying to explain the reasons behind the bill. I'm trying to sum it up. As a background to the bill, we know that it is a priority government task to strengthen consumer protection in e-commerce, given the explosive growth in e-commerce traffic, a significant proportion of retail traffic is transferred to online space. According to KSH data, over the last decade, sales of parcel and internet retail have been steadily increasing. The volume of traffic has increased dynamically since 2010, with an average annual increase of 38 per cent compared to a year earlier. The proportion of the population that regularly participates in domestic e-commerce is constantly increasing, in Hungary it is only 23 percent, the EU average is 43 percent, so there is a huge lag, but there is an enormous potential for development in this. In the area of e-commerce, the legislative environment, which includes consumer protection rules, appears to be well developed both from a domestic and EU point of view, but since it is still a virgin area for the commercial sector, it is therefore appropriate and important to maintain the law on a continuous basis, and harmonised rules have helped operators in the sector since 2014. [[19.00]] However, the Authority's experience is that in many cases the voluntary behaviour of businesses is not proportionate, with a high number of shortcomings. In terms of the domestic e-commerce market, companies that operate purely webshops are largely small and medium-sized enterprises. Under the current rules, an enterprise with a total employment of less than 250 persons and an annual net turnover of up to EUR 50 million, i.e. around HUF 15 billion, or a balance sheet total of up to EUR 43 million is an SME. For the time being, the number of companies in Hungary is only 5-6 thousand, which is also expected to be an explosive development both in numbers and in their turnover, which is why it is important that we discuss this today. According to current fine practice, we apply the principle of warning to the first instance of an infringement committed by e-commerce companies that are SMEs. For my part, I consider this a great concession, since there is a serious penalty, not a warning for the first time in many other trade sectors. So it is a very big concession, I think - by the way, I say my own opinion, not that of others - for these businesses, against their face-to-face commercial relations, because there is no longer such discount, there is a faceless trade going on here, if we consider it between the company in the virtual space behind the monitor and ourselves. The Digital Prosperity Programme, taking into account the results of the surveys, has provided for the implementation of the blacklist, which is strongly supported by my own group, which will cover the identification of e-commerce companies that have committed serious infringements of consumers in the context of Internet commerce in a public database. In addition to the above, the Digital Prosperity programme has given the government the task of examining the possibilities for legal accessibility of construction rules for broadband networks. The government has carried out this investigation with the involvement of authorities and service providers, and based on practical experience, we are proposing to regulate this law. The checks carried out by the Consumer Protection Authority have already been mentioned by the Secretary of State, and there is a significant increase, let us say, in terms of errors, shortcomings, as the more people buy on this market every year, the more people enter this market as market participants, of course, there are more and more contacts that consumers experience with traders. This growth is also motivated and, more precisely, results in the need to be able to curb and strengthen enforcement behaviour in traders in their dealings with consumers. The majority of consumer complaints aim to ensure that they do not receive adequate information on their rights during online shopping, for example in case of withdrawal rights or complaints, because they cannot be contacted online, by e-mail, mobile phones or any contact details are regularly displayed correctly. It is also a big problem for consumers that the withdrawal is excluded from packaging opening or the use of the product, so that a lot of buoys, in many cases dangerous food, medicines and bad, possibly counterfeit electronic devices, and a lot of clothing and a lot of items of use are placed on the market because they can't stop because the opened packaging is no longer accepted by the internet trader and they won't allow the consumer to return the goods they bought or receive their paid back. This must also be sanctioned, and this is partly the case in certain sections of the law. Typical infringements of e-commerce firms are based on practical experience of conciliation bodies and associations representing consumer interests. The first amendment in the detailed content of the bill is the 1997 CLV on consumer protection. One of the most important items in this amendment is the creation of a blacklist for companies who commit an irregularity in online trade, and they do not change their activities after the second warning. The purpose of the amendment is also to provide for a major leap in the level of the fine, which we can also support for ourselves, since the amount of the fine for SMEs will continue to cover up to 5 per cent of the net turnover and, in the case of an undertaking not covered by the Accounting Act, up to HUF 5 million. This is also important in the relationship between e-commerce partners. In accordance with the rules currently in force, multi-enterprises can be fined for the first time. I, for one, would like to know the effectiveness of this, because I have not yet received any information about it, since the lower limit of the fine was only 15 thousand forints. In addition, I would like to say the following on the subject of the amendment of the law on electronic communications under the amended laws. The aim of the review is also to simplify the rules on the placement of communications structures, to accelerate the acquisition of ownership contributions and to make the related official procedures more effective. Based on the rules on the placement of other network utilities, the draft clarifies the order of the buildings that can be used for construction, this can primarily be done in public areas, and the owner of the public area has a tolerance obligation. And since it is a public area, it can usually be a municipal and possibly a state-owned public area. The provisions on the establishment of an official service will also be clarified and simplified. In order to facilitate cooperation with operators of other public utilities or with a communication service provider other than the builder, existing physical infrastructure for broadband development will be supplemented under the rules of the so-called dispute procedure conducted by the National Media and Infocommunications Authority. The amendments make the procedures more predictable and prevent the initiation of a misguided, stalling procedure, which is always the case. It is very important that, according to the government objective agreed with the Digital National Development Programme, broadband connectivity should become available and become available to all households in the country by the end of 2018. To this end, electronic communications service providers on the market will carry out network development with a length of 50 thousand kilometres, partly on their own and partly on European Union funds - from GINOP resources - as well as from budgetary domestic sources - as already mentioned by the Secretary of State. Hungary's road network, I think, is only half of it, so it is a huge development. True, this requires a completely new pipeline at about 10 thousand kilometres and is expected to account for a significant part of the development as an investment in the right to use existing optical fibres. The primary objective of the bill is to review and further develop the legislation on legal accessibility to broadband networks implemented under the. What I would like to highlight here in the case of time limits: in the case of disputes, partners, let us say, could not comply with each other's deadlines, they could not carry out the consultations within a sufficient time limit, then the authority may fine without delaying the development of the parties' bad faith and the judicial proceedings will not have suspensive effect in the implementation of the development. In terms of the amount of compensation, it will be possible to reach agreement between them later, but it will not be able to influence the development itself. I would like to mention here that, since it is a matter of public development and the development of the digital economy, its development can also be one of the driving forces of the country's economy, it is important that individual objectives, either as a citizen or as a local government or as a public body, have to be overwritten, if any, as the country's interest in this matter overrides the individual interests. It is very important that it imposes a tolerance obligation on public areas, as I have already said, the new regulation. The proposal provides for 45 days for the agreement of the Parties for the use of road and rail areas within public areas. So far, this has not been regulated by the law, but the acquisition of ownership contributions will be more predictable. It is important that, in the case of municipal and private ownership, the conclusion of the ownership agreement is now required for 30 days. This also settles the issue of other state-owned real estate, as well as the possibility to make use of it, in line with municipal and private property, by a similar procedure. [[19.10]] In the case of the use of existing physical infrastructure, the National Media and Infocommunications Authority may establish a service or other right of use on the property concerned without attempting to enter into an agreement between the parties, as is the case with an official decision in other utilities. This can mainly mean simplification, acceleration and damage to less real estate owners when using low- or medium-voltage electricity infrastructure by implementing development in their territory. For our part, this is also definitely eligible and supported. The draft regulates in more detail the method and extent of compensation, but I have already mentioned this in part. According to the draft, there would be no compensation for the use of public areas, I think it is understandable, because I do not think that the cost of state development, the cost of development on community property, should be increased by compensation to the state itself and to the municipalities, thus increasing the costs of all of us. The draft contains rules for speeding up dispute proceedings that may be conducted by the national media authority, in particular dispute proceedings relating to the deployment of broadband networks, as well as substantive and procedural rules to facilitate mutual cooperation between the parties involved in the dispute proceedings before a dispute. In addition, we also need to amend the Electronic Communications Act because of the legislative rules necessary for the transposition of the Regulations and Directives of 26 February 2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States relating to electromagnetic compatibility and the 5th European Community Directive on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States relating to the making available on the market of radio equipment. The year-on-year CXLI on the real estate register. The amendment of law is justified by clarification of an interpretation uncertainty. In the framework of the law, until now, the Law on Real Estate Records was 12. In accordance with Section 2 of this Article, the land section and any type of construction on it should currently be registered as an independent property if the ownership of the two is to be separated. Thus, the concept of construction is not defined by the law, but is included in the law on the formation and protection of the built environment, and this includes the types of delineated structures. These provisions give rise to the legal interpretation that communications lines and other delineated structures are real estate, but at present neither electronic communications lines nor other network utilities have any practice and policy intention to register them in the real estate register as separate property, and otherwise, the real estate registration system would not be able to do so at present. Right of use to resolve the problem on electronic communications optical fibre or fibres... [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Yes, Mr. President, I couldn't finish the keynote speech...
u2016-11-08-170	He's been talking so much. [[Defiance.]] More than 15 minutes.
u2016-11-08-171	Yes, it's a very important law. Thank you, you're right.
u2016-11-08-172	Okay, thank you so much. [[Gábor Bányai: Thank you very much.]] Your experience is abundantly sufficient. [[Defiance.]] Mr. István Hollik, the lead speaker of the KDNP. Here you go.
u2016-11-08-173	Thank you, Mr. President. I thought there was gonna be another socialist comment, but then I guess that means... [[Dr. István Józsa and Anita Heringes: Will be!]] That's not gonna happen, okay. [[Dr. István Józsa: It won't be late.]] Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! Since the Secretary of State has said in great detail and my fellow Member from Bánya has further deepened our knowledge of the bill, I would like to talk briefly about everything. It is quite clear that this bill sets two goals for you. One of the goals is that consumer protection problems related to e-commerce... - because this area is changing very quickly, and the rules need to be adapted very quickly, and not only changes, but also increases amazingly, because we see an increase in online trade of nearly 10 percent per year, and the turnover of online trade is now more than HUF 300 billion. It is therefore quite obvious that consumer protection must be strengthened in e-commerce. The other aim of this bill is to build a network infrastructure covering at least 30 megabit per secondary bandwidth in Hungary by the end of the 18th century. To do this, of course, market players need help, and this bill proposes amendments to assist their development. Let's see the strengthening of the consumer leg of e-commerce. The data you can read here is very meaningful. The controlled companies - because there are consumer protection controls - are dealing with e-commerce, online trade, and given the results of the last three years, it can be said that 80% of these companies have found some shortcomings. This is already a very meaningful figure, but it is even more telling that the number of repeated checks, i.e. during the follow-up checks in 2015 - and this shows an increasing trend, as this figure was only 41 percent in 2013 - is 63 percent, which is the proportion of companies where further deficiencies were identified by the investigation. It can therefore be seen that there are very many shortcomings with regard to companies involved in online trade, and because this sector is growing very dynamically, users' complaints have also increased very dynamically and therefore had to be changed in any way. Here, most consumer complaints concerned the right of withdrawal, and what my colleague Bányai has already mentioned here is that in many cases these companies, after a consumer complaint, could not be reached by electronic means, by telephone or by other means. Therefore, the first amendment concerns the creation of a blacklist containing the names of companies that have committed serious infringements and a large number of consumer complaints against them. The other, I think, is a very important amendment, which was mentioned by my fellow Member from Bánya, that there was no deterrent effect on the penalties that have been laid down in the laws and regulations so far. Indeed, a penalty of between 15 thousand and 500 thousand forints, especially for a large online trading company with tens of hundreds of millions of dollars in turnover, will not deter such a fine from further violations. Therefore, the legislation, based on the decision establishing the repeated infringement, could impose a consumer protection penalty of between HUF 200 000 and HUF 2 million on the proposed SME, i.e. the regulation that is now being adopted or the regulation on which we are going to vote, so it can be seen that the fines are to be quadrupled by this proposal. I think that this may already have some kind of deterrent effect. If you look at the other objective of the bill, it refers to the construction of a large network infrastructure covering the country with a bandwidth of 30 megabit per second. Obviously, the aim is that there is an EU regulation requiring Hungary to achieve this objective as an obligation by 2020, and the programme, adopted by the government, says that this will not be achieved by 2020 but by 2018, but will require any regulatory facilitation that will make life easier for investors. Here I think the most important - and I would just like to mention this - is Chapter X of Act C of 2003 on electronic communications, the amendment of which is based on the approximation of the regulation on the construction of electronic communications networks to the rules governing the construction of other utilities, i.e. electricity or gas utilities, thereby accelerating the acquisition of ownership contributions. I believe that this is a very important point that can provide practical help for companies that are active in the development of the network, the construction of the network, and make it easier for them to invest and develop. All in all, I can say that it is an important bill, that this bill provides practical answers to the real problems that arise, and that KDNP, for its part, can support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[19.20]]
u2016-11-08-174	Thank you very much. Our next lead speaker is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, lead speaker of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2016-11-08-175	Mr President, Dear House, I am pleased to hear from opposition benches that there was someone who had been waiting for an opposition speech, and I have to say that there is a strange debate - I do not know if there will be a debate - because many elements of the package before us are positive, forward-looking, I agree with many elements, and now even the holiday has come up that we are not really going to be able to discuss the details of this with my fellow Member Hollik. We know a lot of things, whether in today's statements or yesterday's, and especially this weekend, which you said on Sunday for a Christian Democrat, but at these programming points, I don't think we're going to have that much trouble right now. We have to say that this government has been very forward with consumer protection as a whole, and this package that we have ahead of us, although it is a little late, although it might be possible to act as a more rapid-reaction military force, we can say that it wants to be in the right direction in some respects; we will certainly explore our critical comments and hidden mines later. We have to tell you, the idea of a consumer blacklist isn't new, but it's not bad. So it is finally time for Hungary to use this in substance. The second warning could otherwise be argued, since the procedure and formula that already provides serious legal consequences for the first warning on international markets, where appropriate, the first warning, in the case of the first abuse, may already be indicated in certain forums, in some form, as to the problem with the company concerned, its activity or part of its activities. This is not far from me, as I have mentioned that the statistics that have been referred to show that in Hungary a certain segment of e-commerce seems to be an opaque swamp, and there are companies, if not a majority, but a large part of them are being abused, and what is really scary is that the consequences typically fall behind. So today it is possible to fool consumers at a system level without penalty, at a low value; obviously, at higher values, the procedures start up, and they may become a little more efficient, although obviously 100% efficiency is never achieved here. So the first question that should be discussed is whether it is enough to wait for the second warning, or it would be worth having an early impact. Obviously, if we look at international examples, we also see that, in some cases, the blocking of the portal of a particular intermediary company dealing with e-commerce may arise, so this should not be so far away from the range of actions of the government, if you really think that it is necessary to reduce these companies that continue to abuse a little bit, but obviously it is not the duty of this bill to fully cover this, but the blocking of various portals and mediation sites, if it has otherwise been unduly raised, could be the subject of at least one debate, which is justified here. I would also very much like to hear a series of data - this is a question, if you will - about the cases in which the operating rights of companies engaged in these activities have been suspended, in which cases, in what proportion they have been restricted in the territory of Hungary. This is an incredibly difficult area, since, within a state border, you can concentrate on all or even just a group of activities on the Internet, it is nearly impossible, but obviously efforts can be formulated, and you can live with different motivations. Obviously, I expect this government, if it is determined to tighten up consumer protection, to do so in consumer groups and in a number of areas that have already been discussed, because it was the first government to ban the creation of new consumer groups - it must have allowed the old ones to function for quite some time - but at the same time it lied to its home creations at NOK, but in fact it created its own pilot game, where the companies that used to organise consumer groups can only be those who are organised in this market. So I would like to ask for the same determination, in fact, to demand from the government in other scenarios affecting this area. Obviously, one of the key ideas for me is that in many cases it has been formulated that, in the event of a complaint, it is not possible for the parties concerned to contact the company. Thus, it is obvious that certain types of game rules can be required from the players in a business. I myself experience it, and the consumer complaints that come to us show that in many cases it is already a failure in contact, and companies that either engage in abuse or sell or sell product groups that are already linked to different types of crime, typically not only change their place of business, but also replace companies in a short period of time. Whether a reborn company is able to market the same product range in days, a transformed company can sell the same product range. Think of the various products that have been transformed from plant protection products, whether used as a drug, and the Internet trade of which has been incredibly fragmented, and often the response of the authorities is similar to the time when the dinosaur's leg is stabbed, and the pain in the brain is, I don't know, five minutes later. Here, too, it seems to function as such a slow-reaction Corps, not only the mass of authorities many times, but also the government itself. The increase in fines is absolutely justified, so it is also supported by me. Tamás Gaudi-Nagy, an excellent amendment by my fellow Member at the time, may be the only betterman who went through that cycle and increased the penalty rate for multitasking. So I can't even put the ceiling here, which I'd say is enough. Obviously, if we compared the ceiling to the magnitude of the abuse committed, up to a percentage, we could go even higher. But let us not be insatiable, the value of raising the ceiling will show how much they can live with it. So obviously two factors matter how much the fine revenue increases, and what a deterrent force this can exert. The first is quantifiable, the second is difficult, but let's trust that we will succeed. We are very pleased that the rules on the release of the recording were made a little easier for the customer with regard to telephone customer services. These are gesture measures. I could list two or three more of these, and as I mentioned, several mines. What interests me more is how this blacklist will affect the entire national economy. So it is very difficult for me to imagine an Internet customer who will browse the blacklists before buying them on a case-by-case basis, and, where appropriate, his consumer decision will be determined by what he sees in a portal with a government or government background. I hope that the listing will be very effective, but it should also be recalled here that if such a list is already made, it will be done as in the case of these pesticides and drug derivatives; if the same product is also marketed by a social enterprise, a related company, a similar circle of friends, this should be not only in respect of the name and registered office of the infringer but also in respect of the related attached undertakings, listed. So I would suggest to the government that, in addition to the fact that the individual company is on the blacklist, the attached files should also be displayed in a matrix, so that you make it easier for the poor customer to do so if you have already run into such a case. Obviously, I would like to suggest to the government that it should take this system, not only after the second warning, or for the first time, to allow it to make it easier to block similar sites and, in the long term, also to obtain the possibility of suspending the operating rights of companies that have abused them. We must add that if this works in a system, then we will have a chance to ensure that consumer protection as a whole returns. The signs are not very good, as in the previous government cycle there was an independent consumer protection committee for the Hungarian Parliament. This worked the way it worked, but it was definitely a substitute. Since then, I do not feel that the number or quality of consumer abuse has caused a major decline. So what we can see is that the number of abuse by various service providers, especially in the public utility sector, may have decreased somewhat, but the way in which the same service networks deceive customers has become much more sophisticated. Unfortunately, the amounts that could be caught with fair consumer protection are still leaking out of the other pockets, whether or not they are reduced. In the case of financial consumer protection, it was the Faramuci situation that, as the Consumer Protection Committee has been integrated into the Economic Committee and no one is actually concerned with this area, the financial part of consumer protection has actually been absorbed into the MNB - who should also be monitored and could also be monitored, not in the way that this is happening today - and we can see that, since this has happened, the efficiency of financial consumer protection has been greatly reduced, incredibly financial abuses remain unexplored or even without consequences. [[19.30]] I don't want to just get into the currency-credited calvary or the Quaestor scandal. We could talk about them for hours, but we can see that in Hungary financial consumer protection does not exist today, according to the classic textbook model. Many of the control mechanisms are missing, so if this government wants a systemic shift, we can support this gesture package, but much more is needed, much more courage is needed. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-08-176	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There's no independent congressman in the room, no one's applied for a two-minute speech. Our first member is Mr István Józsa, representative of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2016-11-08-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As a left-wing social democratic party, the MSZP is fundamentally interested in strengthening consumer protection, improving consumer protection and in social modernisation in general. So in this sense, this proposal is a refreshing spot for today, because e-commerce is changing on such a scale, and broadband internet should develop to such an extent that such a bill is very much needed, and therefore basically supported by the MSZP faction. At the same time, we are quite dissatisfied. But I would not say that we are dissatisfied, but I would like to inspire the government to look for new ways of consumer protection in this new type of trade. So it must be very good to ask consumers what they would like, for example, to see such a blacklist, but, as my fellow Member has said, it is not certain that a consumer of electronic commerce is aware of where he can find this blacklist. But if, let's say, in an innovative way, the wallet of this authorisation or obligations with the legislation goes ahead by saying, in addition to advertising such a company, a black dot will appear, which the Internet will eventually learn to say, oops, if a black dot appears here automatically, I will see if the company is on the blacklist. It may not be necessary to do this, but I am just saying as an example that new ways of protecting consumers in the case of e-commerce are needed, using in particular the opportunities that e-commerce itself and the Internet provide. The example may seem harsh, because it is basically a positive thing, although harming consumers can be a mass here too, the Titanic disaster has triggered a radical revision of maritime rules. Let us not wait for mass damage to take place here, too; new types of methods should be explored or sacrificed by the government to develop such methods. The e-commerce, I'm very happy with this number, that there was a year when it grew by 10 percent. I believe that this trend, as the Internet and broadband are spreading, and it will become cheaper and cheaper, for which I am not very happy with this 18% VAT alone, because this general sales tax could be 5% or zero percent, checking that this is reflected in prices, but in any case, e-commerce - as some global companies, Alibaba, or we could say otherwise - shows its success - has an extraordinary potential. It is therefore the task of the legislation to protect Hungarian consumers from damage of low value in general. So these companies, I'm sure, have the vast majority of them in good faith and want to get legal products to consumers in a fair way. At the same time, we are seeing the violence of e-marketing or online advertising. I've read through one or two of these, and a guarantee of satisfaction and repayment, for example, occurs on a regular basis. I didn't buy the product, but I watched how to make use of the repayment guarantee. I can no longer do that online: send my comment by registered letter in English to a mailbox in Wrocław. This is such that there is no such thing, so it is clearly the consumer's deception that it is written in large letters that it is a satisfaction price-back guarantee and then how it can be realised is no longer fulfilled. In this sense, consumers should be helped, on the one hand, to find out where this bug report or complaint can also be made online, so that they can be helped by consumer protection. So if trade takes place on an e-surface, then the bug report or complaint notification can also take place on an e-surface, or in general - we are debating this law here basically welcoming the launch of something, but it is not the Members of Parliament who should be inventing and expressing these complaints in themselves. We need to put a professional crew on it, and we need to look at how it is done in the world, and we need to look at it with screenings, how we can keep up with the sometimes very clever ones, like SMEs and traders. I am sure that the vast majority are honest, but those few con artists who want to cause consumers temporary harm should be screened by professional methods. This may be the first step, the first swallow, but I would suggest that this should be continued. I am pleased that in the rapporteur's speech - although it may be that a misguided delay in time means something quite different from what I have seen in legislation. The T, which I don't know what to call this big purple T, that T-Com or T-Home, because he even made his name disappear, is simply untraceable in the bug report. I called up the number that's in my contract, and right after that, you start directing me into different forkholes, and if I don't want a new subscription or expansion, let's just say an error report, you're gonna ask me for a 9-digit code. I wasn't the godfather of the big T, I didn't know what a 9-digit code was for long. [[Dr. László György Lukács: It's on the bill.]] It's in the account, but I don't know what that is from the phone. And why I have to have an account when I just want to announce that I can't email you about the mistake, because that's exactly my problem. So these services are not consumer-friendly. I'm saying the same thing, which is a mass problem for large service providers, because I guess I didn't just want to make a mistake, but a lot of others, too, so let the government get ahead of it. It may be that if I wanted to politicalise now, that the telecoms had received too much tax, and as a result, the consumer part of the telephone customer service could be withdrawn or reduced; once I tried it, I waited 50 minutes for the operator's application - I failed. So there's also land here in broadband and narrowband. The other is also the consumer protection area for these big ones. I wanted to expand my contract, a salesman came out, and when I asked for a wider broadband service, he somehow got to know me, and he said, Congressman, don't ask. This copper wire doesn't know more than ten. I can sign contract 15, 20 with you, because it's not forbidden, but it doesn't know any more. Therefore, it should not be the good faith of the trader that a service provider enters into a fair contract or does not conclude a fair contract, but that they should try to find a way to follow up on this. Digital well-being is a very nice term, but it would require a radical price reduction. [[19.40]] So, as the European Union was able, by regulation, to reduce roaming charges radically and as a result of European legislation, I believe that, in support of these developments - so that the fibre cable upgrades can take place - the government should look into it, because I do not envy 40-50 percent EBIDTA, if there is innovation, performance, service, but it also needs to be seen whether this service can provide the right price-value ratio. In view of how effective infringements can be remedied, fines can come to the protection of consumers, I would like to initiate - not within the framework of this law - but an active... - not only passive consumer protection when the consumer comes and complains about it, because it is a passive recipient of consumer protection, and then does something, but I would like to propose an active consumer protection in view of the nature of the matter. This means that, by simulating electronic consumption, electronic consumer protection regularly carries out test purchases and test consumptions. So go ahead, don't have to go into that dead end, that damage event that we found out about, for example, the Quaestor case. If - the financial supervision that got into the National Bank of Hungary - had made a trial purchase early and read the footnote to the fake bond, it would have revealed that there was no collateral behind it. Because it was written in it, but no one read it. We had to wait for the company to fail. So this was a deterrent example, and I do not want to lead this thinking in a negative direction with the Electronic Communications Act now, but I would like to propose something of this kind to the government and the legislators to organise the possibility of active consumer protection and, if they know, to bring their bill to this House as soon as possible. So as the first swallow, we welcome this, there is such a dynamic development in this area that we propose that we carry out serious methodological research on the part of the government, and that we bring better regulations to this House. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Anita Herring claps.]]
u2016-11-08-178	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Secretary of State if he wishes to reflect on what has been said. Here you go.
u2016-11-08-179	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, If you'll allow me, I'd be happy to state that the bill, I see, has achieved its purpose. The bill has two purposes, doesn't it? One of them is obviously bound to the norm and is bound to the draft. So the goal is to take concrete steps. The other is to create an active medium for consumer protection, I note, by the way, the amendment of the other law, obviously in connection with the broad band and the digital welfare programme at all. If you'll allow me, given the shortness of time, let me first respond to the specific points. One is that I think that I myself and the Ministry of National Development are fully associated with those who are talking about active consumer protection. The form of organisation which has been spoken by Mr Z. Carpathian, this has come up more than once, perhaps I have not answered it so clearly or simply in Parliament's debate, and the fact is, honourable Member, that I see the active consumer policy of the current government period as being more practical than dealing with such organizational issues, what has a parliamentary committee and a subcommittee. From 1 January, the Ministry of National Development has the opportunity to develop the future in cooperation with an integrated consumer protection authority in terms of consumer protection for a much more comprehensive form of organisation. And the future is clearly at the heart - now the next 12 months - as I pointed out, at the Hungarian Product Grand Prix ceremony here in Parliament, in the Lower House Hall, so the remaining 11 months are focused on consumer protection issues related to e-commerce. Obviously, it is no coincidence, my fellow Members, that this bill is coming here now. However we call it, the solo before me, as you said, the first swallow, whatever we call it, the goal, the intention is to be able to work according to some system, and, if you will allow me, let me give you, Mr President, not to abuse time, one or two other things. I don't know if you know, or at least you've just heard that we've organized the so-called consumer Friday on the initiative of the Secretary of State. The aim of this is precisely that we can socialise this issue, by the way, the aim is that the types of approaches that have been said in the past, what phenomena are in the world, which are ringing to Hungary in the areas of trade and e-marketing in a matter of moments, they are here, they give us joy or cause problems, we do not know this, but obviously about how we can react proactively, obviously this is one part of it. The other part, I don't know if you know, that's what I've been talking about in this House, whether we've been able to get you to think about this together, that's the question of the model web store. The sample webshop serves the exact question, specifically for consumers, as to how it can find out, what it can expect, what it is worth paying attention to in relation to e-commerce. In my view, the next few months will have an important question as regards socialisation, how much we will be able to draw on the activities of civil society organisations dealing with it, by the way. I think there are encouraging signs from the last few months. I very much hope that, in the coming months, we will be able to rely on civil society organisations in this sense in terms of the focus of e-commerce, which is about one year ahead of us, in line with the task. But it's not going to be enough in itself. I believe that we have deliberately formulated the personal, so personal, part of the program of the digital well-being, and I think that in today's individualised world it is inevitable, important and necessary. Summa summarum, honourable Members, thank you very much for your positive thoughts on the bill. I would like to call on the colleagues and representatives of the parliamentary parties to come precisely in terms of a proactive consumer protection approach, a round of thought, and then, even in the context of a consumer policy Friday, which we can thematically consider, we can talk about these issues. I really think that what we have here in terms of e-commerce is a very important step. The strange situation is that the number of abuses or inappropriate commercial behaviour is, in fact, not outstanding or high. The fact is that I think we are in time because, in such an explosive period, we need to establish the framework that will later be clear to all actors, traders - who, do not forget to earn, make good money on the customer and the consumer - and to the consumer that we are creating clear frameworks, with government, firm, clear government help and clear government speech about what can and cannot be done. In addition to this serious government ambition, I agree that the issue is not simple. This has also been said here by the opposition representatives, they have said. It is not a simple issue, because in many respects we are talking about forms, commercial activities, forms, here it is good that there are concrete examples that raise not only a question in Hungary, but that is where we should not only find the answer, but obviously the government is determined in this respect. The Ministry of National Development is thinking in its system, and I say once again, the next year, a short year, focuses on consumer and consumer protection issues related to e-commerce. [[19.50]] Thank you very much for the positive feedback in this respect. I would like to refer to the other leg of the bill. Thank you very much for a clear approach to the issue and the need for broadband by the end of 2018. Help us in the work and implement government ideas together. Thank you very much for your attention and patience, Mr President.
u2016-11-08-180	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill to amend energy laws until closure. The government referral T/12743. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr András Aradszki, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-08-181	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/12743. The provisions of the bill on mining, nuclear energy, district heating, gas security stockpiling, electricity, gas supply and security stockpiling of imported petroleum and petroleum products are aimed at minor and, in several cases, precise amendments to the laws. In addition, the proposal contains a minor legal correction on the amendment of the laws on state property and excise duty. Since all of these laws are subject to energy, it was justified to submit them in a bill. The purpose of the amendments is to ensure consistency with sectoral and other legislation over the past period, as well as for clarification, clarification and harmonisation reasons. XLVIII of 1993 on mining The amendment to the Act will ensure compliance with the EU directive on the geological storage of CO2 and the Commission has launched a pilot procedure for its transposition. In order to ensure control and thus reduce abuse, the installation of the heat pump operator will be subject to notification in the future at a depth of between 0 and 20 metres. The reason for this is that there are signs of abuse based on the experience of official controls. The 1996 CXVI on nuclear energy. On the one hand, the proposed amendment of the Act clarifies the provisions of the Nuclear Energy Act concerning the procedures of the authorities of construction and radiation protection falling within the competence of the nuclear monitoring body, thereby facilitating the more efficient provision of tasks. The amendment also ensures consistency with the recommendations of the International Atomic Energy Agency and with the Euroatom Radiation Protection Directive, thereby ensuring compliance with European Union law. The amendment to the district heating Act clarifies the content of the long-term contract obligation between the district heating producer and the district heating service provider, according to which, in order to ensure security of supply, the parties must have a contract for at least two additional years after the end of the annual contract. XXVI of 2006 on the security stockpiling of natural gas The main part of the amendments to the Act is the provision concerning the operation of the Hungarian Coal Hydrogen Stocking Association, which aims primarily to ensure that the legal requirements governing the operation of the association, as well as the related law on the security stockpiling of petroleum and petroleum products imported, are set out in Annex XXIII to the 2013 Act on the Safety Stockpiling of Oil and Petroleum Products. It should be consistent with the provisions of law once the two laws have been established on the same philosophy basis. The 2007 LXXXVI on electricity. In the light of technological developments, the regulatory framework for the operation of electricity storage facilities was added. This is an important step forward because the rules for the installation and operation of electricity storage facilities have so far been lacking in the text of the law, and I must add that technological progress is increasingly in the direction that renewable energy recovery also requires such energy storage and operating conditions to be provided by the law and regulated by the law in an appropriate manner. In addition, the amendment includes the specific legislative framework for temporary connection to the electricity grid for a maximum of 12 months in order to provide flexibility and rapid delivery of fixed-term connectivity needs. The 2008 XL on gas supply. Most of the amendments to the central data collection and processing system, commonly known as the KAF, are made to the design of its activities. Accordingly, the KAF - which should not be confused with the short name of the poet András Ferenc Kovács - will be carried out by the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, the authority governing its clearing and control tasks as a quasi-official activity instead of the KAF. Other complementary, accounting and data collection tasks will be carried out on a common platform with the State-owned market participant implementing smart measurement sample projects. The amendments to the law on the security stockpiling of imported petroleum and petroleum products are also essentially intended to clarify and standardise the procedural rules concerning the operation of the already mentioned Hungarian Coal Hydrogen Stocking Association. Dear Parliament, I ask that we discuss the bill before us, and the government intends to support it in the vote. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-11-08-182	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The first among these will be the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, Mr Gábor Bányai. Here you go.
u2016-11-08-183	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The most important thing that has been left out on the previous agenda - Mr President has also reprimanded me because I have spoken a lot - is that this House accepts the amendment. Now I may have time to finish my comment, because it will be a little shorter, which I wish to say. Ladies and gentlemen, T/12743 on the amendment of the laws on energy in front of us For the debate on bill No.3 the following are mentioned on the part of our group. The proposed amendments to the bill concern minor amendments to the laws on mining, nuclear energy, district heating, gas security stockpiling, electricity, gas supply and the security stockpiling of imported petroleum and petroleum products, and in several cases more precisely. In addition, the amendments contain two minor, purely legal amendments. The need for amendments is justified, on the one hand, by experience in the application of the law of the past period and, on the other hand, by clarification, clarification and harmonisation in order to ensure consistency with sectoral and other legislation. Each of these laws falls within the scope of energy, and it was therefore justified to amend them in a bill. XLVIII of 1993 on mining By amending law, the law also implements a technical focus on text. This was necessary in view of the pilot procedure on inadequate transposition of the European directive on the geological storage of CO2. [[20.00]] There is another very important amendment. Under the law, no mining supervision permit should currently be required for heat pumps other than groundwater, or other geothermal installations that have been placed under the ground between 0 and 20 metres. The Secretary of State was right to say that there is a great deal of abuse in this regard. Everyone, or many people, is saying so, because I cannot justify the claim that everyone, but many people, abuse, because in most regions, especially in some regions of the Great Plain, they put their probes and the depth of the wells wells wells well below 20 metres, and in consequence they lower it, and this already threatens the safe extraction and biological purity of groundwater. It is therefore appropriate that this should be sanctioned and that this should be influenced by the new proposal. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The other law that we have to amend in the package is the 1996 CXVI on nuclear energy. Law. [[Dr. Wind towards Bernadett.]] Although the congresswoman is here right now, today we are opening Pandora's box a little bit, because Paks is a little bit involved in this amendment of this law. I didn't say that as a disapproval, I just saw that you were pleased to arrive, Congresswoman, so we will probably spend a long time in this piece of legislation. The amendment here is that the architectural activities related to the so-called nuclear power plant blocks also concern non-specific structures which are currently LXXVIII of 1997 on the transformation, transformation and protection of the built environment. they fall within the scope of law, for example, which is necessary for the establishment and do not have a role in the operation of the installation, as well as buildings which, or parts of which, belong to the safety zone. The plans to be submitted as an annex to the application for an installation permit for these new blocks shall be uniform, shall not be broken down separately into structures covered by the two laws and shall be subject to the nuclear energy law of all the works covered by the plans. Thus, in view of nuclear safety, rules other than general requirements may also be laid down for the structures concerned. On the other hand, the National Atomic Energy Office is able to register the practitioner of the architectural activity, who is also entitled to practice the architectural profession. 18th of 2005 on district heating With regard to the amendment of the Act, it was necessary to clarify the content of the long-term contractual obligation between the district heating producer and the district heating service provider in order to ensure security of supply, according to which the parties must have a contract for a period of at least two years after the end of the annual contract. Of course, there could be concerns as to why the contracting obligation is not longer. Right now, the law uses it, but it doesn't regulate the concept of long distance. Although economically, the long-term really means five years or longer, the safety of district heating as a goal in practice, given that a new renewable energy-based heat-generating investment can take place in two to three years - in order to hope that sooner - it is not justified to provide for such a time-frame, and as a five-year contract is approaching its expiry, the security of supply it guarantees will decrease to less than one year. The amendment abolishes the concept of long-term, but instead clarifies the duration of the contract by requiring the parties to conclude contracts after the end of the annual contract for a period of at least two years, to the extent of the capacity to guarantee the security of district heating, thereby ensuring security of supply. XXVI of 2006 on the security stockpiling of natural gas With regard to the amendment of the Act: the decisive part of the amendment to the 2006 law on the security stockpiling of natural gas contains precise provisions to ensure consistency with the provisions of the Act on the operation of the Hungarian Coal Hydrogen Stocking Association and on the security stockpiling of imported petroleum and petroleum products. The 2007 LXXXVI on electricity. The reason for the amendment of law is as follows. In view of the technological development of electricity storage equipment, the sectoral regulation of electricity has been complemented by the concept of electricity storage equipment and the framework for its operation by the licensee and the authorisation to define the detailed rules for the operation of the storage facility at the level of the government regulation. In the light of the experience gained by law enforcement, it is necessary to establish specific legislative frameworks for temporary accession to the electricity grid for a maximum period of 12 months in order to ensure flexibility and rapid delivery of fixed-term accession needs. One element of this is the need to provide a specific complement to the regulation of the authorisation procedures for electricity construction. In the case of temporary pipelines, it is appropriate to apply simpler and faster rules similar to the construction of the coupling line rather than the authorisation of the wire. The 2008 XL on gas supply. In addition to the clarification and clarification provisions, the KAF, the central data collection and processing system, could have been called the Kecskemét Animation Festival, is also called, if we are already joking, then there should be another joke, although unnecessary, about the necessary changes to the transformation of its activities. Accordingly, the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, which effectively regulates KAF's functions as a quasi-official activity, will carry out other additional clearing and data collection tasks on a platform with the State-owned market participant implementing the smart measurement sample project. In addition, the provisions for the consistency of the electricity and gas laws, in particular consumer protection, have been clarified in the proposal. XXVI of 2006 on the security stockpiling of natural gas The amendment of the Act also essentially serves to clarify and standardise the procedural rules relating to the operation of the Hungarian Coal Hydrogen Inventory Association. Mr President, Dear House, Our Fraction proposes the adoption of the law and I ask for support from my fellow Members and, of course, the submission of proposals to amend their concerns. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-11-08-184	Thank you very much, Congressman Banai. Good evening. I give the floor to Congressman István Józsa, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2016-11-08-185	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. Dear House, The law before us has the simple name of amending laws on energy, and most of the amendments are based on industry interests, industry proposals and compliance with EU legal harmonisation obligations. At the same time, with this title, the amendment of energy laws, I would much rather see a definite price reduction proposal before the House, because with this bill, which is here, it is not the problem that is in it, but rather what is not in it. The deficiency of the bill is that although both oil and imported gas prices have decreased by around 50-60 percent since August 2014 and the government has taken over the supply of residential natural gas, the bill does not provide for a strong reduction in energy prices. This would have happened in market conditions. Retail prices are not falling, retail accounts are not falling. The bill also does not provide for making retail price regulation fairer and more sustainable in a way that would provide a significant advantage to retail consumers up to average consumption. So we are missing a significant reduction in gas prices, a noticeable reduction in energy prices, what we consider necessary and justified is what world market prices would allow, and in particular a fairer retail price tariff that would give small consumers a greater discount up to the average consumption. If the Secretary of State had brought these here, we would certainly be better able to debate these otherwise technical amendments. [[20.10]] It is discreetly charmed by the amendment of the district heating Act, which states that the new regulation guarantees security of supply by clarifying the content of the long-term contract obligation between the district heating producer and the district heating service provider by requiring the parties to have a contract of at least two years after the end of the annual contract. Discrete charm means what was, by the way, a disaster for district heating, which happened here in the Hungarian Parliament on 16 March 2011. This is when the House adopted the law making cogeneration or, more simply, gas-engined district heating impossible. A thousand-megawatt-powered industry was zeroed in the area of district heating by adopting this one law and destroyed about a thousand-billion-dollar fortune. I ask you how you can enter into a contract for another two years, when Hungarian legislation is as predictable as it was on 16 March 2011, destroying the gas-engine industry, which produced economically electricity and provided district heating in 43 cities, and was able to provide district heating at a more favourable price with a combined solution to electricity generation. So this government, which has a six-year history here, has serious sins in the field of district heating; its crimes, which it has not been able to clear since then, have not ensured that the district heating of Hungarian cities can be solved in a cheap, economical and modern way. I'm putting in an administrative tightening that really doesn't have anything to do with, because Damocles' sword is there for every single service provider, over every single investor's head, when the government is going to come up with a new idea to change the rules, which could possibly go against modern technologies. It is possible to agree with what the amendment to the Mining Act aims at amending the regulation by allowing the proper transposition of the EU directive for climate protection purposes, thereby enabling the proper transposition of Directive 2009/31/EC on the geological storage of CO2 in Hungary, while, in my view, it is not certain that the time has already come, but at least the possibility of establishing it in principle. It is also necessary to amend the nuclear law, since outdated, expired standards should be modernised, clarified and standardised, in addition to the amendments, to lay down basic safety standards to protect against the dangers arising from exposure to ionising radiation and to comply with Articles 76 and 78 of Council Directive 2013/59/Euratom of 3 December 2013 repealing Articles 4 and 76 of Directive 89/618/Euratom and 90/642/Euratom and Directives 96/29/Euratom, 97/43/Euratom and 2003/122/Euratom. It's a necessary step. In addition, the proposal extends the decision-making powers of the Director-General of the National Atomic Energy Office in respect of the level of remuneration for workers and benefits other than wages. That's half a step. The National Atomic Energy Office carries out a special category of security, which would require a European pay option taking into account market conditions and European market conditions rather than the wage tables that are typical of civil servants. I do not know how to guarantee nuclear safety in Hungary, how to guarantee the survival of the employees of the National Atomic Energy Office, for example in health care, medical migrations, when a well-trained, experienced nuclear inspector in other areas of Europe, I do not want to say how many times, but he receives much more income and career opportunities. The only way the National Atomic Energy Office can compete with this is if these bureaucratic options are resolved by legislation. This is one of the steps in terms of reward and extra-wage benefits, but I suggest that basically the form and framework of the wage option be opened by the government. This industry must be able to handle well-paid supervisors, otherwise nuclear safety is difficult to guarantee. In addition, the bill provides that the licensee of the nuclear power plant, as an employer, may derogate from the rules on inter-work breaks under the Labour Code for the benefit of workers. In fact, we would like to put forward an amendment in this regard, not only for inter-work breaks, but also for the rules on working order at all. The operating conditions of the nuclear power plant also justify the possibility of implementing a specific working order in the nuclear field. We certainly support the author's intention in this regard. What they do in the field of the central data collection and processing system is another strange thing. The amendments to the Gas Act contain clarification and clarification provisions appropriate to the legislative need, as presented here. The amendments will lead to the division of the activities of the central data collection and processing system and the 2008 XL on gas supply. an appropriate amendment to the law. Accordingly, the functions of clearing and control of the KAF's quasi-official activities will actually be carried out by the regulatory authority, the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, while other additional clearing and data collection tasks, such as the smart measurement sample project, may be carried out on a common platform with the State-owned market participant. The only interesting thing is that the MSZP has suggested this before. So the regulation for KAF Zrt.: the government created it in February 2015 with HUF 100 million capital and HUF 2.9 billion capital reserves. So the KAF was created with a total budget of HUF 3 billion. The real purpose of creating the company has not yet been revealed, because it has not been able to function. This company did not perform any valuable activity. Nevertheless, he employed about 25 people. KAF Zrt. When amending the Gas Act on its activities, MSZP proposed that KAF Zrt. Instead, the quasi-official tasks of the KAF in relation to accounting shall be performed by the Hungarian Energy and Utility Service Office, which operates independently of the government and has appropriate expertise. So we proposed this already in February 2015, at the time of the referral. The MSZP proposal was then not supported by the government and Fidesz. Now, see, the government has put forward a proposal for this. [[20.20]] In Hungarian, we managed to spend a few hundred million forints on nothing to get back there, which could have been decided in February 2015 at the time of creation. So we would like to propose to the rapporteur that he should take a stand, bring in an energy price reduction proposal for a market price reduction, adopt our proposal for a fair, fair retail price tariff to benefit from average consumption, and bring such a salad law in line with such price regulation, the proposals of which are eligible but not complete. At the same time, I propose considering the damage done by the legislation of March 2011 in the field of district heating and proposing how to modernise the domestic district heating system in an economical way, such as using earth-heat mining. Besides Budapest, if they were to drill wells with a sufficient depth of thermal wells, thousands of meters of wells for modern district heating - this could be searched out of a few billion costs - a geothermal power plant with a power capacity of 300 megawatts could supply the entire district heating system in Budapest, and no steps have been taken. This requires, of course, the interconnection of the five island district heating areas in Budapest with the circular line. The preparations for this are underway, they have begun, and this should be done; but at the same time geological research, the possibilities of using geothermal energy, should also be put on the agenda. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity.
u2016-11-08-186	Thank you, Congressman Józsa. I now give the floor to Mr Lajos Kepli, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-11-08-187	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I just need two minutes. I think that this day was the day of confrontations here in the Hungarian Parliament, here in the plenary Chamber, either with regard to the amendment of the basic law or with regard to the bill on tourism, where we discussed hours with the still present Member Witzmann on the subject of tourism in Balaton. I think that it is appropriate to end this day on the track of constructive opposition, which we can support, because it is a package of professional salad law. I know there will be other opinions here after me - we leave the possibility of confrontation to the LMP in this case - all I can say is that Jobbik will support this bill. Of course, before us, there have been a lot of arguments from both the authors and from Congressman Józsa, and I cannot repeat it, but both the Nuclear Power Act and the Mining Act, I believe, are the most important parts of this legislative package. The amendment contains elements that are acceptable to us, so Jobbik supports the bill, and I have finished my speech as a speaker. Thank you.
u2016-11-08-188	Thank you very much, Congressman Kepli. I now give the floor to Mrs Bernadett Szél, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2016-11-08-189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I will really break this very constructive, positive mood, because in many ways I do not understand what you are about to do here. In fact, it is suspicious when it comes to a day when they put it about midnight that the meeting day will end and a salad law will be introduced on the final agenda. The LMP faction reads these laws three times, because these are what the pro-government representatives do to hide the most evil, and I see you talking about minor changes here, and you said that salad law, all energy, everything, is more efficient. Of course, you can talk about these, because it's salad law, there's really everything in it, like a salad usually looks out, but there's a couple of nuclear bombs in this law, and I'd like to clarify and hear your position on what it's doing here and what it's trying to achieve. In particular, we see that the permit granting process has been very problematic, and we all know that the Paks Nuclear Power Plant Blocks currently in operation have not been able to store waste, and we also see that the environmental permit issued has not taken the heat load into account sufficiently, so there have been problems with nuclear licensing. What we see is that this salad law continues to loosen up these permits that we have considered too easy. The Atomic Energy Agency had previously had far stronger powers than it can now see in this text, not licensing, but merely taking note of the part of the Atomic Energy Agency, but only making the transaction subject to notification. What we see here is that in the case of existing permits, it will also be possible to derogate from the requirements set out in the permits in regulations, in Hungarian, the government can regulate it if in some way it wishes to deviate from those laid down in the previous permit. I think nuclear safety is a basis that is not questionable, and I do not understand what this change is for, which you have planned here. It's clear they want to speed up the procedures. I already knew that when it comes to nuclear energy - but not just you, but virtually everyone in the whole world, although this does not excuse your responsibility - you are beginning to hide, otherwise this risk of corruption is greatly increased. I don't understand who's gonna benefit from the fact that if the Atomic Energy Agency's authority is dropped by you, it's gonna be dictated. However, the Atomic Energy Agency has been a professional control organization so far, about the last. We can already see that Members of Parliament are trying to hide the details from members of the National Security Committee, social and civil control in relation to nuclear energy, you have already depleted it, made a priority investment, reduced impact areas, so we should move around to the fence to become a client in the process. I've been suing the government for years about the preparatory documents so that I can finally look into it, and besides being a tax-paying citizen, I'm a Member of Parliament and a member of the National Security Committee, and now we see that independent authority control is being eliminated. So for me, these are points in this bill that cannot be overlooked, even if they have tried to put this debate on hold overnight. I'd like these specific paragraphs, if you could explain this to me, here's 14. For example, in section (dh), the possible ways and conditions of derogation from official permits are laid down in the nuclear installation under construction. But there are sections that make it easier to change ownership. So I would like to get a detailed explanation of what these points, which I have highlighted here, were born of what particular consideration and what they would like to achieve, because in my reading, this means that the existing legal guarantees are practically relaxed in relation to the storage of waste, and I find it particularly problematic that a derogation from an official permit will be permitted in a government regulation. What you're about to do here, I just can't believe you dared to write that down in a bill. If we're talking about Paks II, we're talking about the most expensive investment in Hungary's history, we're talking about a nuclear power plant, where safety cannot be Fidesz's plaything and no one can play with it. So then I'd like to hear you put these paragraphs into this salad law for what reason, and with about the same speed as you explain to me how this came into it, I'm asking you to remove them, because they have no place in this salad law, no place in it. I also risk that Mr. János Áder, who said that the nuclear project is certainly not a bicycle storage facility, if this goes through, a playground, a residential playground will be more difficult to permit than different transactions in connection with a nuclear investment. I would like to get Mr State Secretary's position on what we are talking about here. Thank you.
u2016-11-08-190	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. A two-minute speech was submitted by MEP Nándor Gúr, the Hungarian Socialist Party. Mr. Note, if you've found the microphone, you've got the floor. [[20.30]]
u2016-11-08-191	I apologize to all of you. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, I would like to raise a question and point it to the attention of the Secretary of State of Aradski. In fact, it's nothing more than what - I don't want to go into repetitions, so I'm just dealing with it - I think it's left out of the bill. At a time when gas or oil import prices show a decrease of around 60% over more than two years, this does not go back to retail consumer prices. What we all know is that public ownership of the supply of natural gas to the public has occurred, and in this sense the possibility would obviously be given in this respect. That's part of the story. The other part is that we have not said it now, for a long time now, that the price regulation that we have, or the shortcomings in it, gives rise to the situation that people, in particular and in the most extreme way, are virtually the victims of this story today. Therefore, as a result of this price regulation, there is virtually no beneficiary which should be in order for normal and demand-based gas consumption to take place on their part. In English: that is why we say that until the average consumption, at least to the extent of the average consumption, there should be significant benefits, which would be necessary to ensure. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to consider this story in this regard, not only in the context of what has already been said. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-11-08-192	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have further speeches from our representatives. Congresswoman Anita Heringes, the Hungarian Socialist Party, applied in writing. You have the floor in a 15-minute time frame.
u2016-11-08-193	Thank you very much for the floor. As a Paks local patriot girl, I always give a lot of respect to nuclear experts, their benefits and their expertise. I don't think it's a question for anyone in this room that the only thing that really matters about Paks and nuclear power is security, and that is guaranteed by professionals working at the Paks Nuclear Power Plant or the National Atomic Energy Office. However, these people have to be well paid, because these professionals, who work at the National Atomic Energy Office, have considerable expertise, which could otherwise be used in any other country. There have been a number of attempts to raise the government's wages by professionals working in the Atomic Energy Office, but these actions are not yet sufficient. I am pleased that the international mission conducted by the International Atomic Energy Agency has also brought the Government's attention to the fact that the independence of the Atomic Energy Agency can be properly guaranteed by the fact that if there are otherwise well-paid professionals there, and we are now filling in the shortcoming that the Director-General can decide on the extra-wage benefits, which has already been set in the budget, this amount can be used by him to pay extra-wage allowances. In many cases, I have drawn attention to the fact that I think that there should be a career model for the Atomic Energy Office-type organisations, a scholarship programme, or a contract with the Technical University, so that a programme can be established in which young people will see the future until the end. Their careers can be good in this area if they can work there all the time and get a salary that they can make a living on. The other amendment, which I found joyful, is an amendment to the Paks Nuclear Power Plant workers, in which the holder of the nuclear power plant is allowed to differ in the working order of the people working there. For this reason, I have also tabled an amendment to give this opportunity in full working order. I think that the Paks Nuclear Power Plant is a company and a job that people do there, which is very special, really not a screw factory, really not a bicycle storage unit, but a company that does so special things and works there with special knowledge that for them, only a professional can accurately define the work order. As long as there are specialists in the nuclear power plant's general staff, they will be able to determine this very, very accurately. I therefore think that the only certainty is that there are calm, balanced people who can work in the Paks Nuclear Power Plant and professionals who are really given every opportunity to work at peace. I therefore hope that you can support my amendment. I can support these two amendments to the government, one of the rare cases, but I can certainly support these two amendments, because I think that there are still steps to be taken. I think that there is, of course, another area where there is special work, where people would equally deserve a derogation from the working order, but unfortunately, the current Labour Code, which I think is wrong on a number of points, does not allow that. He hasn't made it possible since this new Labour Code was established. In fact, the typical case of sufficient service at the Paks Nuclear Power Plant is to have a court on its feet, let us be honest, who dares to say what is sufficient for a nuclear power plant. You can't run it just a little bit, you can't just do it halfway, you have to do it normally, heart and soul, just like the employees of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant always do. So I will certainly support these two amendments, and I hope that my amendment can be accepted by the government. Thank you.
u2016-11-08-194	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] No further comments were received. The general debate is closed. I see that the Secretary of State Aradski is preparing to respond to what has been said in this debate. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-11-08-195	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, First of all, I thank you for the supporting contributions, and I have sensed from the professional perspective of the contributions that we have done fundamentally satisfactory and appropriate work in the preparation of the legislation. I must add that this is, of course, also due to the fact that we have consulted the profession in many respects and have presented this proposal with an appreciation of the experience we have had so far. There are some issues in which we are sure that we have an argument to begin with, Mr Józsa and Mr Gúr, the gas price... but let's just leave this to the end, okay? With regard to Mr Józsa's comments, I have to say that the administrative tightening of district heating is, in fact, a mitigating measure for the sake of security of supply, in our intention, because district heating service providers and district heating producers are more free to decide on the duration of the annual contract than before. There is only one condition that replaces and complements or strengthens it compared to the current regulation that there cannot be a condition that if a fixed-term contract expires and the parties cannot agree on renewal or continuation, there should not be an administrative obligation to establish a contract or to designate another provider, but that it is already in the law that there is an additional two-year contractual obligation after the annual expiry date, the essence of which is that during those two years, given that the district heating service will be renewed, it will be possible to purchase alternative services or to explore alternative markets in two years. [[20.40]] I think that makes the rigid system so far easier and more flexible. Your comment on the storage of CO2: there is no debate in this either. When it was its first adoption, the amendment of the Mining Law in 2012, if I remember correctly, we were both lead speakers, if I remember correctly, Mr Józsa, and we both said that this was a principle option, that compliance with the European Union is the most important goal in Hungary for now, that the other conditions of storage were not seen by you, by me, at the time and now. I would argue that there is no market-based wage in the OAH, and then I would also respond to the words of Congresswoman Anita Heringes, because she says that they could go for much better money. [[It's a herring Anita nodding.]] That's right, they could go for much better money, but they won't go away, because otherwise, in the case of wage arrangements implemented over the past period, they will be paid more than average, both at OAH and at Paks. In this respect, the wages were settled in the OAH this year and there was a significant hijacking. For the scholarship programme and other comments such as: these are in progress, the relationship with universities is alive, and I am happy to see and perceive that this area has become more attractive to young people, and we see professional replacements as assured. True, the sooner the young man or the young woman or the young woman begins to do this work, the sooner she takes up the work of this area, the more prepared and better professional she will be in this area. I think that we cannot be content, but, as Congressman Józsa has said, the direction is good. With the amendments tabled by the working order representatives, I am in principle... when we see it, we are not against the fact that if it is meeting the security requirements, which is, by the way, the common task and purpose of all of us. Congressman Kepli supported it. Mrs Bernadett Wind: so, I am trying to listen, honourable Member, and you have always said that in your reading. Well, I'm sorry, and I can't read the way you read the questions you're asking, so I just don't get it. There may be a problem with all of us, because no one but you has opposed the amendments made to the nuclear law. We can really see the world differently because, in terms of the authorisation procedure, the building permit procedure does not reduce, but increases, the powers of the OAH because it receives powers that it has not yet had. The authorisation of these non-nuclear structures has so far been transferred to another authority, which, in fact, and essentially, will be assessed by the OAH together, and the certification of the contributors involved will be carried out by the Office, OAH, which can be interpreted in terms of nuclear safety. What if it doesn't strengthen security and strengthen the powers of the OAH? Compliance with the specific requirements is served by the derogation in the Government Decree, as set out in Article 11 (1). Paragraph 2 also states that and sets out the methods and conditions of the derogation, so it is legally determined how a derogation can be made in the government decree. About the rest, I always lose my hand when it comes to maintaining the capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. At least you speak your mind honestly, stand up, and do not pretend, as a representative who is concerned about the future of the Paks people, that you will never support the capacity maintenance of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. Another woman, Anita Heringes, does this; she still does not say that I am asking nicely, as opposed to my party's position, I, as a country in Paks, am in favour of maintaining the capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. [[Dr. István Józsa intervenes.]] Because in the long term, it ensures the existence of the city of Paks for 30-40 years, the well-being of the people living there, and even the great-grandsons have adequate remuneration and livelihoods. It seems to me that in this regard, Congresswoman Bernadett Wind, I cannot argue with you in this regard, it is a debate of faith. You say that we believe that there is either renewable or nuclear-based energy production, but the government's position has always been that and-and, therefore, nuclear and renewable, and we must add that both forms of energy production have the same problems; we should rather join together, reconcile our views and come up with an optimal solution. I hope that this will happen one day, and both power generation will find its own form and place in the Hungarian energy mix, which is not from the devil, because other countries think alike. Returning to the price: Mr Józsa said that, under market conditions, the price reduction would have already taken place. [[Dr. István Józsa: That's right!]] Honourable Member, there are currently 28 states in the European Union, I understand that many of these countries, the vast majority of which depend on market conditions, on the price of universal service providers. There are countries where they are regulated prices. Now, this regulated price in the universal service segment is still much lower than the Czech, French... - no French - the Belgian or Luxembourg price at which, under market conditions, electricity and gas are supplied to universal service users under market price regulation. In terms of gas, the second cheapest price in Hungary is in the European Union, the fifth in terms of electricity; it is only the fifth because Poland is in a much more favourable position in terms of electricity supply due to coal power plants. I believe that, in these circumstances, to say that the price reduction would have already occurred on the basis of market conditions, is rather courageous, because from these statistics, which I mentioned earlier, it would have been to me that the price of the universal service provider used under market conditions would now not only be lower in Hungary, but, if we compare it with other competing countries where the universal service provider price is regulated under market conditions or regulated by the market, prices are higher everywhere. You know, Congressman, I would have even more respect for you if you had been so courageous before 2010 and you had started reducing the rent, it would have been a real challenge, because, at that time, the price of the universal service provider in Hungary, the price paid by Hungarian citizens was higher than in England, Luxembourg or the Netherlands, so the Hungarian average consumer paid more for the electricity price, the electricity consumed in his apartment than the British citizen, Luxembourg or the Dutch national did. [[Dr. István Józsa: Luxembourg is not the Dutch!]] , the Dutch and the Czech. So I have to add that these are important questions. There would have been a space and a reason for reducing the rent if there had been courage in the government at that time. This is not the time to call for a price reduction without foundation, without justification, at the risk of security of supply, when, as I said, the second of the 28 states has the lowest gas price in Hungary and the fifth has the lowest electricity price, and I have to underline once again that the universal service price operating under market conditions is higher than the Hungarian price everywhere. So I think that this debate can be said either now or in solutions before the agenda, but unfortunately I have no other answer for it. I ask for your patience, values and directions for reducing the cost of gas. [[Dr. István Józsa: We know when it will be!]] We're gonna keep it up, we're not gonna be able to control it. [[Dr. István Józsa intervenes.]] that for Hungarian citizens, users of universal service [[Dr. István Józsa: It will be in the campaign!]] We can give you the best price we can get. [[20.50]] I thank you very much for the statements of support, for the comments which, hopefully, will be useful for the development of the bill, and we will look at the proposals for working arrangements. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-11-08-196	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Aradski. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of today's agenda. It is now time to speak after the agenda. After the agenda, Mr Mihály Witzmann, from the Fidesz Group, applied for a post-municipal speech:. Tourist results in Somogy and Balaton! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman, within a five-minute time frame. [[Dr. István Józsa: There was such an agenda!]]
u2016-11-08-197	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, As it appeared in this afternoon's debate, as a member of the shore of Lake Balaton, I have been particularly fond of the situation of domestic tourism, so I have spoken on this subject several times in this House. I would also like to give a brief overview of the results of domestic tourism in 2016, in this late hour, of course, given that we do not yet have the full annual data of the sector. I am pleased to point out that the figures will continue to be positive this year, which is true of almost all segments of the sector. Looking at the tourist data of Somogy County, the wider Patria of my constituency, we can also say that growth is striking and encouraging. The tourist traffic of commercial accommodations in Somogy County was as follows: in the first half of 2015, a total of 192 039, whereas in the first half of 2016, 211 749 people visited Somogy County for tourism purposes. Overall, the number of visitors to Somogy increased by about 10.3 percent in the first half of 2016. The positive development of the number of guest nights in Somogy is also a reason for optimism. The data also speaks for itself here, because in the first half of 2015, the total number of registered guest nights was 448 349, until the first half of 2016 the same data shows 479 306 registered guest nights. The increase in this case is about 6.9 percent. I am pleased to say that in the first eight months of 2016 the guests spent a total of 4 million 310 thousand guest nights at the Hungarian sea, which, by the way, represents a 2.7 percent increase in the hospitality of the Balaton region. Fortunately, we can also say that not only the number of guests and the number of guest nights has increased this year, but also the region's tourist revenues have increased year after year. It is worth recalling that while the gross income of commercial accommodations of such importance to the Balaton economy has not yet reached 12 billion in 2010, in 2015 this figure has already exceeded HUF 21.3 billion, and in the first eight months of 2016 it has already been close to HUF 18 billion, which, by the way, is more than 6.2 percent increase compared to the same period last year. We can now say with a calm heart that Hungary has also made progress in the tourism sector compared to the 2009-2010 years, which produced extremely devastating results. Government measures aimed at boosting domestic demand, improving the financial situation of Hungarian families, the low personal income tax rate, the reduction of rent, the introduction of foreign currency loans, the family tax reduction or the SZÉP card program have undoubtedly contributed to making holiday and recreation more accessible to Hungarian people. In the case of the SZÉP card, it must be pointed out that this kind of currency plays a major role in the growth of Hungarian tourism. In Somogy County alone, in the first half of this year, commercial accommodations were paid with a SZÉP card worth more than half a billion HUF, which, by the way, represents a 4.3 percent increase. The development of the tourism sector and the development of revenues are, of course, extremely important for the Balaton municipalities as well. It is also a happy fact that, in the case of the cities of Balaton on the shore of my constituency, we can report an increase in tourist tax revenues without exception. In Zamárdi's case, for example, last year's tourist tax revenues totalled HUF 123.5 million; this year almost HUF 117 million was reached on August 20th. According to the mayor of the city, by the end of the year, there will be about a 5% increase compared to last year. Similar results can be seen in Balatonföldvár, where there is an expected 8 percent increase in tourist tax compared to last year. The favourable trend can also be seen at the seat of my constituency, Siófok, where 42 thousand more guest nights were registered compared to the same period last year, with an increase of about 11 percent. And if it is already Balaton and tourism, then Balatoni Hajózási Zrt. is definitely worth it. to mention briefly the results of its operation, because the company broke several records in 2016. In 2016, the number of persons transported increased to 721 thousand people this year compared to 653 thousand last year, making the company the largest passenger traffic in the last seven years. The traffic of the ferries in Balaton has risen to an altitude of over one million passengers since 2002. Overall, we can say that tourism is a highly important sector of the national economy for Hungary, which should and should be developed, because it can increase its significant revenue year by year, contributing to the growth of the country, further improving the image of Hungary, the so-called country image. With jobs provided by the sector, it not only creates a livelihood, but also functions as an engine for economic development. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-11-08-198	Thank you very much, Congressman Witzmann. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speech after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. I wish you a restful good night. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 20:56 p.m.]]
