u2016-11-10-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 20th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the bill on the amendment of certain laws in connection with the introduction of an annuity to dance arts will follow until closure. Presentation submitted by János Lázár, Zoltán Balog and Mónika Dunai, Fidesz, T/12739. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Minister Zoltán Balog, the author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-11-10-1	[[It's a loudspeaker error.]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, A cliché, because the peculiarity of platitudes is that they express a fundamental truth, even if it wears off in frequent use, their meaning is distorted, it is that Hungary, which has not, or has not, been rich in significant mineral resources or raw materials for some time, has the most important resource in our minds, or I might add, if we are talking about the culture that is in our hearts. It is a basic truth that we consider a cliché, but it definitely preserved its meaning and validity.
u2016-11-10-2	Minister, I apologize for stopping you. Would you please adjust your microphone, turn it around, because you can't hear it, but the whispering sound is disturbing.
u2016-11-10-3	My heart rate?
u2016-11-10-4	No, his heart rate must be fine, ours too, so the brake and counterweight system works in this case. There you go. Keep going.
u2016-11-10-5	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your cooperation. Dear Minister, - I could have said that. Therefore, the importance of Hungarian culture justifies the government's special attention to all those who maintain this culture or recreate it. At the time when we are talking about Hungarian culture, it is also a fundamental truth that Hungarian culture, without the folk culture that has played one of the most important roles in preserving our identity and identity over the centuries, has taken a special place in our cultural performance, in our cultural life, for a millennium. If I think only of the great losses of the past, let me put it this way, it is also obvious that not only the theoretical foundation for this - let us think of Kodály or Béla Bartók - but we also have artists who have done this world-class. If I mention Sándor Csoóri here, who we recently said goodbye to, his basic rule is that without Hungarian folk culture XXI. Hungarians and Hungarian identities of the century cannot exist, such an important sign, an important heritage for us. But if I approach the professional part of folk culture, think of Béla Halmos, who has played a huge, decisive role for generations in the dance house movement, in the search, collection and preservation of the values of Hungarian folk culture, or in the former death of György Martin. Here I draw your attention to our recently published recognition decree, our ministerial decree, a special award for the profession, at the request of representatives of Hungarian folk culture. So, for the first time next year, we're going to award Martin György. All these reasons justify paying particular attention to those who maintain and recreate this culture. If it is still possible to mention two issues in the general approach, which indicate that this is not a two-legged production, but the diversity, the wealth that characterizes Hungarian culture, how it can be achieved in the state-of-the-art, state-of-the-art or time, then I would like to mention two television productions that I think we can all be proud of. One is the production of Virtuosos, which shows not only the teaching, but also the presentation and representation of classical music from a very young age to the public of the whole country. I am proud to say that, even if we as governments have little to do with this, we can be proud of the fact that there is an international interest in adapting this programme in different countries. The other, which is already about folk culture, is the newest branch of the Páva movement, the "The peacock show" has been launched, where we meet occasionally and regularly with young children who preserve, represent, maintain and recreate this popular culture in different parts of the Carpathian Basin. All these cases, as I have said, also focus our attention on those who maintain and recreate this culture - I am thinking of the dance artists here. The proposal that we presented to Parliament, together with my fellow Member, Mr János Lázár - we have now submitted this as a representative because the government did not wish to take a position in this matter in the first instance - aims to convert the annuity of ballet art, which was established in 2011 by our previous law, into an annuity of dance art, not as a ballet art, but as an annuity of dance art. We would impose strict conditions on the use of this annuity. But perhaps in the explanatory statement, in the first instance, let me say that it is clear to everyone that those who cultivate dance art at this level, at the highest level, use the body of those with a heavy physical strain that is similar to that of athletes in relation to other artistic branches in terms of biological, physical condition. It is therefore justified that when they reach that age - we can talk about the age of 35 here - when they are unable to meet or meet this demand, they receive an annuity that will help them to perform, for the rest of their lives, a similar professional task or a profession that follows from their previous activities. This annuity is used to help. 25 years of professional - I stress, professional - work is the condition of this annuity, it can be used over 40 years of age. If you calculate that a young dancer is basically a young dancer, if you graduate from college, then, say, at the age of 22, you can start this activity professionally, and if you add 25 years to that, then you will have the time from which you will be able to make this annuity available. The condition is that they become members of a permanent company, this company should have a national rating and use this annuity as a full-time basis. The aforementioned Act of Performing Arts 43. According to his section, the persons entitled to an annuity in ballet art have been entitled to the Hungarian National Ballet, the Győri Ballet, the Pécsi Ballet, or the Szeged Contemporary Ballet - so this is a specific circle - or for at least 25 years at the predecessors of these rights, not including the duration of the training - in a major professional manner - this is also significant. They meet the additional conditions of the law. [[9.10]] The professional dancer profession has asked us to change this regulation in such a way as to extend this ballet art annuity to another four categories. Here, the folk dance, the Hungarian State Folk Ensemble, the Hungarian National Dance Ensemble or the old name of the Honvéd Dance Ensemble, the Danube Artist Ensemble and the Budapest Operetta Theatre Dance Choir are at the forefront. These are institutions with national ratings. In advance of the debate, there is another such qualification that there is a national institution, the National Dance Theatre, but after the reception theatre, there is no permanent company, so obviously, if these bands, whom I have just listed, are invited to a guest game, then this dance annuity applies to them in another way. As I said, the Association of Hungarian Dance Artists was the initiative in this matter, and we, with my fellow Member, János Lázár, who was also contacted and I was also approached, gladly supported this proposal. I ask you to consider the meaning and importance of this proposal. I would like to draw attention - here we have already partly started the debate with the Fiskus, the Ministry of National Economy - that according to our calculations - and these are reliable enough calculations - one, two, three, maximum four people can be affected annually by the use of this kind of annuity, since the circle of those who can use it is limited; the institutions with the highest ratings are precisely listed. According to the Act of Performing Arts, access to and benefits from national qualifications are subject to very strict conditions. I see - I trust that this will not be contradicted - that this type of rating system, which we started to develop with the participation of professional organisations at the beginning of our governance in 2011, means a regulation which, obviously, cannot be talked about only objective criteria in the field of culture, but still represents a reliable rating system, and that, of course, more money could always be spent in support of cultural businesses and various professional workshops than we are spending, apart from the consensus of the profession, the agreement of this rating system, which can be included. So theoretically, this circle can be expanded with other dance groups, but the way in which access to national ratings is assessed, the procedure and the professional credit of those who are involved in this qualification guarantee that this is not a bag that has no bottom but can be clearly defined by the circle and the activity that is affected. So, as I said, between one and four people, it is possible to plan who are the artists employed in this way and who will have access to this annuity. I ask for the support of this House in this matter, and, as I said, the government did not wish to take a position in the first round, so I look forward to the Government's opinion on the bill. I myself ask you to support this proposal. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-11-10-6	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in this case, Minister, in his capacity as rapporteur, I am obliged to ask the Secretary of State, as a representative of the Government, if he wishes to speak now. [[For signal:]] Mr. Peter Hoppál is the secretary of state. Here you go.
u2016-11-10-7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Congressman! Ladies and gentlemen, On a very important matter, its representatives made a stand-alone motion to the Parliament with the Minister of Human Resources, as a Member of Parliament, leading the Prime Minister's Office, and I think that an important social need is being clarified by this current bill before Parliament. Just now, Minister, you have clearly pointed out the history. In fact, in 2011 the government made a proposal to the Parliament that the overgrowth of early retirement in an uncontrollable manner had to be placed within a regulated framework for the stability of the country. I think that at that time the law, if we had noted the amendment at the time, had made a very noble gesture, if it had made an exception for ballet artists. In other words, before reaching the retirement age, as Minister indicated, after a 25-year activity, it allows artists who were subject to strict criteria to receive a temporary pension for a transitional period, i.e. until the retirement age is reached, a certain allowance for ballet art. However, naturally, the Association of Hungarian Dance Artists intended to open this discount not only for ballet artists with the same degree, so a degree in dance art, but also for artists active in the field of folk art on another large branch of dance art. Minister, you have said very precisely that this circle of beneficiaries does not represent a burden for the Hungarian economy of hundreds of thousands. In fact, we are talking about a few dozen artists who live with this discount. Let's expect a quick head count. Artists who complete the Dance Academy and have a fresh degree at the age of 22 have the opportunity, after a high professional advance, to participate in one of the four ballet ensembles with a great tradition, the Hungarian State Opera House National Ballet, the Győri Ballet, the Pécs Ballet and the Szeged Contemporary Ballet - who can already get company membership in these bands at the beginning of their career - is a prestigious recognition in itself. So we can say that the legal exception so far has been good, because those who can operate in these companies for 25 years, if they are 47 years old - when we think that from childhood to 5-6 years of age, artists who are under a very powerful daily stressor, who are amazingly burdened with their bone systems, their joints - are there to feel out of stage, and in many cases there is also a medical paper, there is a possibility that if they do not wish to continue working in the company in any other way, or even on teaching or teaching careers, they can receive a temporary allowance. Once again, therefore, very few have taken advantage of this advantage. At the same time, who is well aware of the group of folk dancers, we can also see in the amateur bands that, in terms of daily movement, children who work in the field of folk dance, and we can see the performance they perform on the stage, and not only in the entire Carpathian Basin, but also in the diaspora areas across the border, the cultural identity of local communities that are involved in the activities of folk dance. [[9.20]] Yes, we do, but we have professional bands who have represented the highest level of Hungarian culture, Hungarian folk art, on the international stage for decades, on the road to Kodály, Bartók and at the dance house movement. We believe that this kind of extension, which is included in the proposal for an amendment of the law, is justified and fair. So in the dance arts profession, artists with the same degree not only allow balletists but also folk dancers to use the mentioned discount circle. I look forward to the question being raised by my fellow opposition Members - and I would therefore like to prevent it a little bit - about the glorious past when any artist could retire after 25 years. Well, that was not such a glorious past, my fellow Members, because before 2011, when artists used the 25-year-old artist pension before the old age pension, they could only use it under very poor conditions. It is no coincidence that only 500 artists in the last half century have taken advantage of this opportunity. So today, according to statistics, there are 500 artists' pensioners, people who used it according to the old system. And why is that? That's because it provided an allowance of around HUF 100,000 at the current value. This is unfair, because it does not recognise the essence of Hungarian art, it does not recognise its value in its corresponding position. When we broke up with this tradition, we also broke up with the humiliation of artists and adapted the previously bad regulatory environment to the country's economic potential. So it can be said that today, when the government finally takes care of 15 percent general wage development in the cultural sphere, and as of 1 January, more than 20 thousand cultural civil servants have received a 15% wage increase by Minister Zoltán Balog, and the government has supported and accepted this, we can say that the use of the former reduced-value pension for 500 people compared to the number of civil servants of 20,000 is almost a small number. Compared to this, a few dozen people who today receive a temporary allowance of HUF 157 thousand, an average of HUF 160,000, so they receive an allowance in ballet art and then, as a result of the initiative, dance art, well, this pension or pension-like allowance of HUF 160,000 is not such a big challenge, so artists take advantage of it in very few cases. Therefore, the national economy will not be shaken. It may be a further question as to whether this is covered by the budget. Yes, the budget coverage provided for this discount. To conclude, I would like to point out to the Minister, my fellow Member, and to the Honourable Parliament that, as he well knows, the government will further strengthen the positions of the House of Tradition in a very important package in order to promote a higher level of popular culture. Not only do we renovate the headquarters of the House of Tradition, the Buda Vigadó - the Pest Vigadó is in a wonderful state at the disposal of the audience - from a national source of 5.5 billion forints, but we continue to raise the House of Tradition among the highest prestigious national institutions, and the plans for a trans-border network construction are now being put together by the House of Traditions. We would very much like to include this heritage, our millennia of folk art heritage, the entire network of which has already been built with the dance house movement, in a professional innovation framework with our highest level of public background institution, the House of Tradition. Thus, the Conservative National Government has a prominent role to play in its thinking today and in the future in supporting folk art and folk culture. That is why we believe that the presentation by Zoltán Balog and János Lázár, which has come before Parliament, must be supported, and I can tell you that the government is, of course, in good faith in supporting the extension of the circle of beneficiaries to these groups and the conversion of the grant of ballet art into an allowance for dance art. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-10-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. It is only my duty to add that three Members have tabled amendments to the bill, and it is clear that there has been no mention of Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: He joined him later!]] He joined, but he did so much that he became a keynote speaker, so I now call the lead speaker of the Fidesz, Mónika Dunai. Here you go.
u2016-11-10-9	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The Fidesz Group supports the proposed bill, and we agree with its aim, which happens to include dance artists in the ballet's annuity, thus extending the scope of the allowance and the range of recipients. Overall, we are pleased and welcome to every presentation that prioritises art, and that appreciates artists more morally and financially, and increases their appreciation. XCIX 2008 on the promotion and specific employment rules of performers' organisations. The person, the ballet artist who has been engaged in the Hungarian National Ballet, the Győri Ballet, the Pécsi Ballet, the Szeged Contemporary Ballet or their legal predecessors for at least 25 years, not including the duration of the training, private dance or dance choir activities as a major occupation and meets the additional legal conditions, is currently entitled to an allowance for ballet art. The present proposal states that, in addition to the employees of four organisations listed in the current legislation, a dance artist with four long-standing companies should be entitled to apply for an annuity to dance art if he has completed 25 years as a dancer in the art organizations required by the law. The proposal would extend the range of rightholders and would not affect the overall system of benefits in other essential aspects. The change in the name of the form of supply makes it necessary to amend all the legislation concerned, which is of a purely legal nature and is part of the present proposal. The proposed four national-quality ensembles are the Hungarian State Folk Ensemble, the Duna Art Ensemble, the Hungarian National Dance Ensemble, which was previously the Honvéd Dance Ensemble and the Budapest Operetta Theatre. The extension of the personal scope of the Act in relation to the Hungarian State Folk Ensemble, the Hungarian National Dance Ensemble, the Danube Artist Ensemble and the Budapest Operetta Theatre is, in our opinion, entirely justified. The country's largest national-rated folk dance groups promote Hungarian cultural values abroad with excellent dance performances. Excellent talented and talented dance artists are involved in these bands. Professional dancers of the Budapest Operetta Theatre are indispensable to musical theatre productions. It would be an honor for the artists of these famous and significant ensembles, and it would provide additional security if they became entitled to the annuity of dance art and ballet art. To resolve this situation, we believe that it is a solution to convert the ballet arts allowance into a dance art benefit, and to extend the range of right holders in this direction. As mentioned above, the conversion of the ballet-art annuity into an annuity of dance arts, as well as the extension of the three large professional folk dance groups, as well as of the Budapest Operetta Theatre's dance choir employees each year - as Minister and State Secretary mentioned - would affect an average of one or two major folk dancers, one or four dance artists per year in the case of the Budapest Operetta Theatre. [[9.30]] The calculations are based on the artists employed in the main occupation. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On this basis, the Fidesz faction kindly recommends to you the adoption of this bill, because we believe that this proposal serves the appreciation of dance art and Hungarian artists. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-10-10	Thank you very much. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group, Mr Lajos Korózs, is next.
u2016-11-10-11	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that we can get through this bill and this initiative pretty soon. We support the authors in a lot of things, although I must say, and I would like to point out to the Minister first of all that we tabled an amendment to it yesterday with my colleague Ágnes Kunhalmi. I'll be waiting for the committee meeting to see if the pro-government side supports it. I would first of all like to rely on what Minister said. I said that we could get through this proposal quickly enough, because it's far from me to open the door that Secretary Peter Hoppál has already opened a little here in connection with early retirements. [[Zoltán Balog: He was just pushing me.]] So let's just leave it at that. Yeah, of course, there were things in there that needed to be changed, and I never myself claimed that the pension law was as static as if it were granite-solid. It must always be touched, always adjusted, as there are new challenges in life. However, this presentation, as has been mentioned here by several people, represents a kind of opening up to dance artists, since in the past the artistic pension in this area was an opportunity in the art world, and later the annuity of ballet art. Look, I think this initiative is all the more valuable and important, beyond the fact that it will not shake the pension fund or public finances, because we know precisely that although there are significantly more people than there are, they will not be there at the age of the artists to use it in large numbers. As a fan of folk art, I am particularly supportive of dance art in this regard. I know very well that for a man, if he dances for 25 years with the lad from Kalotaszeg and turns 48-50, he'll be happy to walk normally - I put that in a little quote. All the more so, because those joint, skeletal loads are worth what ballet artists suffer. From this point of view, the Socialist Party would therefore like to support this proposal. The administrative conditions referred to by the national are also appropriate, whether they are 25 years old, and that it cannot then have insurance rights. This is clear, because two benefits cannot be used, that they are also in the herd and that they are also entitled to an allowance. But I think I remember that in the ballet arts annuity, it was the same, that the insurance had to be terminated on the day of the application, because the two could not be paid together. I would like to note this, and this is also welcome in the context of the proposal that it does not receive regular money supply, or that it does not have an insurance status, but an exception has been made to the widow's pension, the accident pension and the war-care workers, who have been taken out of it; very rightly, because I also think that it would not be right for someone who has such care to lose this benefit. I would like you to explain why you thought that it could be submitted by 28 February and will be paid from 1 May. Now I just want to ask the practical side of this: if the law is now adopted, then what is the administrative procedure, which justifies the fact that the payment will be made only from 1 May. I would like to stress that our motion is about and I would ask Minister whether it would be acceptable if this benefit could be extended to sculptors or later to musicians or at the same time to sculptors and musicians. I would like to emphasise that we will also support this initiative. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-10-12	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, lead speaker of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2016-11-10-13	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Minister, Fellow Members! Of course, Jobbik will also support this bill and its adoption, there is no debate in principle between us on the award of dance art or on the eligibility of this proposal. At the same time, I would like to make some comments on this law, on the one hand, and, on the other, on the other hand, on the perspective of this legislation, in general on the situation of dance artists in Hungary. On the one hand, it must be stated that there are huge opportunities for Hungarian culture in the dance itself, both in terms of foreign appearances, in terms of Hungary's perception and in terms of domesticity. For me, it is my heart that as many children as possible be used to folk dance as possible, to dance folk dance, because at the same time it develops the sense of music, develops movement at the same time, and at the same time participates in traditional dance. And thanks to the skills they learn in other areas of life, these children can perform better in other fields of science. That is why this bill may have more significance than it receives attention, even at committee level dance or dance art itself, and here in Parliament. My first question would be that the legal situation is a little odd that two ministers and Mónika Dunai will join and submit the proposal. What was the reason why the government did not wish to take a position on this in the first place? There is no counter-argument from the opposition, there is no such huge budgetary implications as the Minister said; moreover, if we are talking about one or four people a year, we are talking about a quasi-personalised legislation. So we're talking about a change that affects a small number of people, but that's a big one. Minister also mentioned that the payment of this annuity is subject to strict conditions. It is worth considering whether this is the right thing to do. I know that there is a set of conditions in the Act of Performing Arts for the groups of different categories, and it can obviously be linked to the payment of an annuity to dance arts. This is a logical, understandable and clear reasoning system for everyone. However, since we are talking about so few people, one or four people per year, as you said, Minister, may even arise that, on an individual basis, other dance artists, who may not be members of these groups, but who carry out such a high-profile and high-quality artistic activity, which would make them worthy of qualifying for this annuity; they may even be entitled to receive this annuity on the basis of a ministerial assessment. So this strict set of conditions could perhaps be made a little more flexible, perhaps it could be opened up to others by not only linking them to these bands, and not excluding artists in other artistic ensembles. The second, which may also involve a small expansion, is that if we take into account the artistic activity carried out during the training period. Individual treatment may be applied here, so it does not necessarily have to be taken into account for all to include training time in the payment of annuity. [[9.40]] Although, I note, there may also be arguments, as many artists already perform artistic activities of a quality during the training period, which others, let's say, will not do in the future. So here, because it is art, and because the society of dance artists themselves is a small number in Hungary, I think it would also be possible to make such an individual assessment, to make it more flexible in terms of training time, if we take this into account in some cases, recognising the artistic activity that has been expressed here. These are points that I would rather suggest that the authors consider further. Of course, we can support the proposal without these. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-11-10-14	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We now have a speech from Members. No one's applied for a two-minute speech. However, as a pre-notified speaker, Mr Robert Simon, representative of Fidesz, applied. Here you go.
u2016-11-10-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Minister, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, We all know that the dance track is very short due to the severe physical strain on the body. Unlike other artistic branches, in dance art, any of its genres may be ballet, folk dance or modern, contemporary dance, performers with less stage performance in biological or aesthetic terms are no longer allowed to perform. Having looked at the qualities of an average person and taking into account the requirements of modern stage dance art, a great deal of stress is already a serious problem for the body over 35 years of age. From the age of 35-40, the load capacity of dancers is reduced, so they can be employed to a limited extent. Special features should be provided, so it is very rare to meet professional requirements over the age of 40. In this sense, the conclusion of the dancer's career is therefore not the decision of the individual, but the result of circumstances, or necessity. From 2012 onwards, artists' pensions, together with early retirement pensions, have ceased, and have become an early-age benefit in Hungary; there is no possibility of obtaining benefits from this date. Following the termination of the artist's pension, members of four prominent ballet groups are entitled to receive a ballet art annuity in connection with their professional practice after 25 years of dance activities, under the laws in force, if they comply with the requirements laid down by law. According to the current rules, the annuity of ballet arts at the Győr Ballet, the Hungarian National Ballet, the Pécs Ballet, the Szeged Contemporary Ballet or their legal predecessors applies for a total of 25 years, not including the duration of the training, dancers or dancers engaged in the activities of private dancers or dancers. Last March, the Association of Hungarian Dance Artists published the National Dance Program, the 80-page document that deals with the issue of occupational pensions, among other things. After several discussions, the Association of Hungarian Dance Artists made and tabled a request for the government to extend the Ballet Art Annuity to another four companies. This is why the bill we are discussing has obviously been tabled by the ministers. The proposed four national-rated ensembles: the Hungarian State Folk Ensemble, the Hungarian National Dance Ensemble - formerly the Honvéd Ensemble - the Duna Artist Ensemble and the Budapest Operetta Theatre dance choir. Ladies and gentlemen, Here at the national rating, I'll stop for a moment. In 2012, a ministerial decree containing the qualification of performing art organisations was published. Annex 1 to the Regulation of the Minister of Human Resources lists performing arts organisations with national qualifications, while Annex 2 lists performing arts organisations with priority. According to the law, the maintenance of the national category is the State or the collective itself if it is in a contract with the State and at least 70 per cent of its members have a professional higher education degree or a qualification required by the Public Employee Act. According to the regulation, I quote: The organisation which has a state-reserved or public service contract with the State can be classified as a national performer-art organisation, which is of paramount importance in terms of its role in the life of Hungarian performer-arts, its artistic activity, the preservation, development of Hungarian national cultural identity and traditions, and the mediation of cultural value and pattern. In practice, this means that organisations with national performance qualifications must meet the highest professional quality requirements by setting high performance targets and requirements in addition to the statutory number of viewers and lectures. I quote from the public service contract concluded between the Győr Ballet and the EMMI with a national rating from the beginning. The Győr Ballet performs a performance-art activity aimed at creating, presenting, keeping on repertoire, and promoting the development of Hungarian dance arts and providing a wide range of audiences in Győr, Hungary and across the border. With its activities it enhances the values of dance art, nurtures and develops the cultural state of society, the Hungarian dance culture, and promotes the maintenance of Hungarian cultural memory and universal dance culture. With conscious and conceptual activity, he is committed to the care and promotion of Hungarian culture and dance art across the border, and to facilitating the development of the Hungarian ethnic dance arts life. * I thought it was important to say all these things in order to show that the amendments concerned concern four groups with national qualifications. The extension of the personal scope of the Act of Performing Arts in relation to the Hungarian State Folk Ensemble, the Hungarian National Dance Ensemble, the Danube Artist Ensemble and the Budapest Operetta Theatre is, in my opinion, entirely justified. The country's largest national-rated folk dance groups promote Hungarian cultural values throughout the country and abroad with excellent dance performances, so they employ talented and talented dancers. Professional dancers of the Budapest Operetta Theatre are indispensable to musical theatre productions. For the artists of these prestigious and prestigious ensembles, it would provide considerable respect and security if they became eligible for an annuity to dance arts. In my name, as a member of the Cultural Committee, I support the amendment of the law, i.e. the conversion of the annuity of ballet art into an annuity of dance art, and its extension to the three large professional folk dance groups and to the dancers of the Budapest Operetta Theatre. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-11-10-16	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Peter Hoppál has applied for a statement. Here.
u2016-11-10-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your cooperation, listening to the keynote speeches and the voice of your representatives. I am pleased that not only the government, but also the leaders of the opposition groups, have given their support to the presentation. I would like to respond briefly to some of the things that have been raised by my fellow Members, whether, on the one hand, the gate to be opened or, on the other hand, whether the door to be opened may be opened. In the view of the Government, the expansion of this advantage is precisely what is necessary and sufficient. So if we were to make further enlargements, then there should be enlargements after that. By the way, we see that it covers not only the circle of folk dancers, but I also argued this; but actually, when the nationalist thought that in the case of the Hungarian National Ballet, the Hungarian State Opera House dance choir had so far benefited from the law, and in the case of the other large state institution, the Budapest Operetta Theatre, it would be necessary to give the dance choir this opportunity, then the dancer circle was extended a little, because the dance choir of the Opera Theatre does not necessarily have to perform in folk dance affairs only. [[9.50]] The training period has also emerged from our fellow Member, Madam President of the Commission. The issue of counting training time would open up difficult opportunities, because there is passive time, there is active time, so I do not think that the complexity of this would be good to take on. It is safe when we can date it from the date of the certificate of formal qualifications or from the start of company membership. It's a solid calculation basis. I see that the head speaker of the Socialist Group, the former Secretary of State, agrees that it would indeed make the calculation of time in the regulation complex. That is why we did not propose to the authors the extension of training time. Why does Parliament's Members come before Parliament as a motion? I quickly consulted Minister Zoltán Balog on this. He indicated that - the government had already discussed this matter in one round and then took a passive position - because during this parliamentary session it would no longer have been possible to carry out the government's internal conciliation, consultation with the national economy's wallet, after which it could have claimed the government's cabinet meetings and then the approval of the government's meeting. So it would have run out of time, and it would have gone beyond the current parliamentary term, which is why it was decided with Minister Lázár - and later, indeed, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai joined the presentation - to bring this regulation to Parliament earlier, with which the entire professional public agrees, and even took the initiative on this issue. Finally, let us make one last comment - which has not come up -: after all, the circle of beneficiaries has a much wider base in the world of artists in Hungary today, and we can be proud, I think, completely regardless of our faction position, that the great national artist pantheon, which is living today, 65 years old and has gained a high prestige for artists with Kossuth Prize and international prestige in seven branches of art, gives the title of National Artist to 70 artists in total, which is worth 650-660 thousand forints per month. I think that the government's intention, with its introduction four years ago and two years ago, has raised the appreciation of the highest level of artists in Hungary to such a high level, which, let me say, has built a base, above the current starting circle, that is worthy of the highest value carriers of Hungarian culture. Thank you again for your support for the motion tabled by the rapporteurs in the comments made. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-11-10-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Tamás Sneider, vice-president of Parliament, representative of Jobbik, has applied for a speech. Here you go.
u2016-11-10-19	Thank you. Mr President, Dear House, Fellow Members! Everyone here has already expressed their support for the bill. Obviously, I will do the same, and I am glad that even if it is only for a few artists, it will be possible for them to live a normal life even when they are physically unable to meet the requirement that awaits them on stage or waits for them. They can continue to stay in the art world, but they can fulfil another function with an annuity allowance, and they will continue to be valuable members and may be members of the art world. What I really asked for was that I could almost quote all my fellow Members, or even the Secretary of State, on the fact that this annuities are necessary because the joints wear off, they cannot do their work with such intensity and quality as would be expected. I am very pleased to note from the artistic world that there is finally a proposal in which the government has acknowledged that there are areas, there are professions where it is simply not possible to expect the same requirements at the age of 60-65 as at a much younger age. However, in response to the Secretary of State, I am saddened that, at the moment, only this circle is affected by the introduction of an annuity in the art world, because everyone knows Hungary's economic situation, mostly you, and even the numbers may well know it, because in the last three years, the government has received HUF 470 billion more social contribution tax revenue, which allows it to be increased or extended at the rate of pensions or annuities. Out of 470 billion, not only these about four persons could receive annuity, but others too. I feel a bit like I'm flying back in time for almost a hundred years, because right now we have a very Dracon pension system, and we better people want to break into this Dracon pension system, we want this to be broadened as much as possible, and I can also say that if it could be colored, like in all Western European countries, there would be different opportunities for people in certain professions to retire early. I wouldn't want to mention Western European systems, how advanced, cynellated pension systems have developed there. In the last few years, since 2011, the opposite has been the case, as in the Western and Central European world, we have done exactly the opposite: we have introduced an extremely Draconian, extremely uniform system. I've told Parliament that it's impossible to ask an EMT to bring a 120-pound patient down from the 4th floor, or to ask a firefighter to use 30-40-pound equipment to rush up to the 10th floor and save lives. That is why it is interesting to me that a relatively narrow circle of Gods - and the profession has helped them to change their situation, to create this allowance, but at the same time much larger masses - who, of course, I can say, obviously have a greater budgetary impact on changing their pension system - cannot achieve the same. However, it can be seen from the two examples below that the current government wants them to do something impossible. I could also say that I am glad that these three, four or even five people who will receive this allowance will not get community service after the end of their careers, as this is the case in the aforementioned professions that they do their careers as public workers after 25-30-35 years of work. I ask you, do these people deserve to end their last years with such a career? I just said that today reminds me of debates a little over a hundred years ago, because that is when the establishment of the pension system began in Hungary. I remember very well, especially in the case of agricultural workers, that at the time only the farmers were given the possibility of a pension in this House, and that at last opened the loophole to start further support, the reform of the pension system. In 1936, a relatively small number of four thousand farmers were given the opportunity to retire, then in 38 they were able to expand it to almost the full range of agricultural workers, and later, after they had taken their land away from the Hungarian peasantry, in 1961 they could retire as members of their land. Thus, the range of pension rights has slowly developed and increased. [[10.00]] I hope that this process will start now, because what you have said here, one by one, applies to all of these professions, can be quoted at any time, and I will probably do so in the upcoming debates when it comes to such things. You see the professions, you see the difficulties that are not easy to overcome physically, and that is why I trust that we will be able to continue to increase and shape Hungary's pension system. For the last time, as a last thought, I would just like to add that the Hungarian state has plenty of room for manoeuvre at the moment to change the pension system, even to introduce the possibility that in some cases it may be possible to retire after 40 years of employment. So I hope that after changing the artistic annuity, or more specifically the annuity of dance art, we can move on and expand this opportunity both in the art world and far beyond. So, finally, I can only say once again that I am very pleased with this proposal, especially in this regard, because in this I see much greater contexts and opportunities in the coming months or in the coming years. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-10-20	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I will ask Mónika Dunai, as present rapporteur, if he wishes to reflect. [[Mónika Dunai:]] Here you go.
u2016-11-10-21	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank the factions for their attitude towards this proposal. It is rare to propose that not only the pro-government representatives and factions, but also the leaders of the opposition factions, are in favour of the content of the proposal and agree with its purpose. However, the last speech on Jobbik took an interesting turn. On the one hand, we thank you for the positive attitude, and we also thank you for the proposals that our fellow Members, the lead speakers, said in the main speaker group, but Tamás Sneider, in his last speech, opened a debate that was not the subject of the present proposal, but also related to a previous law adopted in the previous parliamentary term and its afterlife. At that time, in the last parliamentary term, the government has thought responsibly about how it will address this advanced pension issue. This was a system that had been established before 1990, which contained injustices at very, very many points, not only in the eyes of other groups of society, but also in the eyes of those concerned themselves, because there were many people who, at the age of 42-44, did not want to retire - in the prime of their strength - and did not retire, only on paper, then went to work, and then continued to work for 20-25 years. The debate at that time was painful and difficult, but this was supported by the then government and the Fidesz-KDNP fraction. Society has also agreed to this because it has evened the injustices. The fact that society agreed with this and the majority of those involved is the main evidence that the majority of Hungarians again chose the Fidesz-KDNP majority in 2014 after the 2011 amendment, with a two-thirds ratio. We believe that this issue has now come to a standstill, but we are open to further refining. For example, this proposal serves the purpose of extending this system where it is justified - and here many have said in today's debate that because of the state of health, the weariness of joints, the increased physical stress in ballet art, and by extending it to the dance arts sector - we listen to these minor corrections, we hear them from the professional side, and we hear them here within the walls of the House, and we are ready to modify this. We are not interested in the whole system, the return to the previous system, and we do not want that. We believe that such proposals, which have been made today in the main speakerial round, will, however, be worth considering. Thank you very much not only for the keynote speeches, suggestions, but also for the government's support in this matter. There was a question on the part of Lajos Korózs, if I remember correctly why, in such a situation, two ministers and I tabled this proposal. There is nothing nasty about this, as Mr. Secretary of State has said; it can be seen that the government supports this proposal, so we did not submit it against the government, and that the legislative amendment to ballet artists and dancers is also a yes to the government. Let me briefly discuss one thing, which was also involved in the debate, which was partly raised as a question, but has not yet been given sufficient emphasis, namely that it is 1-2-3-4 persons who will be able to be included as a plus in the next few years each year, who will be able to fall under the scope of this annuity. It is important to point out that not only those who then require it after the law has been passed and until 28 February 2017 who become entitled can claim this annuity, but also retroactively, who would have been entitled in 2014 or in 2015 or 2016 would have been entitled this year, before the birth of this law, they may also apply for it. And so I would like to add a statistical figure to that I would like to add that in 2014 the mentioned four of the three folk dance groups and the ballet artists of the Budapest Operetta Theatre will affect a total of 6 people. In 2015, 4 of these four ensembles, 5 in 2016, this year and 3 in 2017 according to current calculations. So, overall, from 2017, when entitlement to annuity is claimed, the proposal will have a total of 18 people in the next year, and from then on this 1-2-3-4 person per year will be set up. Once again, thank you very much for your comments, comments, proposals, statements of support, both to the factions and to my fellow Members and to the government. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-11-10-22	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that it is possible to present the amendments by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, the Parliament must decide on a meeting matter. Vice-President Tamás Sneider spoke during today's general debate. In the event of opposition by the representatives of the Vice-President, the sitting may be held in the course of further negotiations of a separate motion only if the Parliament agrees to do so. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees that Vice-President Tamás Sneider should be able to chair the meeting during the further discussion of the proposal. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I declare it to be unanimous; the Parliament adopted the motion by unanimous vote. Dear Parliament, The 1996 LVII on the prohibition of unfair market behaviour and restrictions on competition follows. Act XLVII of 2008 on the prohibition of unfair commercial practices against consumers General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. T/12718. Government referral No 1 and information material from the State Audit Office are available on the Parliament's IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go. [[10.10]]
u2016-11-10-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Parliament, The role of competition law is to protect fair and free competition and the fundamental mechanism of market operation and thus ultimately consumers. The importance of infringements of competition law is shown by the fact that our Fundamental Law also contains a competition law provision when it states in Article M that Hungary ensures the conditions of fair economic competition, acts against abuse of dominant positions and protects consumers' rights. The 1996 LVII on the prohibition of unfair market behaviour and restrictions on competition. Act XLVII of 2008 on the prohibition of unfair commercial practices against consumers The adoption of a bill amending the law essentially serves two purposes. On the one hand, the transposition of Directive 2014/104/EU on the rules governing actions for damages based on infringements of the competition laws of the Member States and of the European Union and, on the other hand, the amendment of the rules on mergers of undertakings of the law on the prohibition of unfair market conduct and restriction of competition in order to speed up and simplify procedures. The bill also contains minor amendments to some of the provisions of the Competition Act related to the above rules, which complement them. For the first time, I would like to describe the fundamental provisions of the regulatory system of the bill on damages actions relating to infringements of competition law. For the first time, I consider it important to illustrate what we mean by a competition infringement and why it is necessary to develop a single European-level regulation on these damages actions. The most significant infringement of competition law is participation in a restrictive agreement, more commonly known as cartelisation. The latter is particularly serious, the most damaging form of public finances and thus indirectly the Hungarian public is the conclusion of restrictive agreements in public procurement procedures. This includes, of course, cartels for market distribution or price fixing, which are considered to be the same cartel. The single European-level regulation of damages actions relating to infringements of competition law was justified in several respects. Although public law enforcement, i.e. competition authorities, plays a decisive role in the application of competition law, it is important to point out that EU competition law provisions have a direct effect on legal relationships between private entities as a result of the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union. This means that these provisions give rise to rights and obligations for the persons concerned, which they themselves are entitled to enforce before their national courts, and national courts must ensure that they are enforced. Therefore, national courts play an important role in the application of competition rules, for example by awarding compensation to victims of competition law infringements. However, there have been significant differences in the rules of the Member States on damages actions based on EU and national competition law infringements. On the one hand, these differences have led to uncertainty as to the conditions under which injured parties could exercise their right to compensation and, on the other hand, to affect the validity of that right. Since injured parties have often chosen the Member State in which they are established as a forum for enforcing their claims for compensation, differences in national rules have led to unequal conditions for damages actions. In addition to granting a competitive advantage to certain undertakings which have infringed EU and national competition rules, derogations from the right to establishment and the right to supply goods and services in the Member States in which the right to compensation can be enforced more effectively, may have given rise to differences in the enforcement of Union law on compensation. Since the differences between the responsibilities systems applicable in the Member States have adversely affected competition and the proper functioning of the internal market, it has become necessary to establish a single regulation at European level. In November 2014, the European Union adopted Directive 2014/14/EU, before which no harmonisation at EU level took place, only the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union provided guidance on the enforcement of claims for damages arising from infringements of competition law. This situation has changed with the adoption of the Directive, as the provisions contained therein define as far as possible the rules to be taken into account in damages actions resulting from a competition infringement. To sum up, the Directive can be considered as an extremely important step in ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market, greater legal certainty and a more level playing field for businesses and consumers, which lays down the rules necessary to ensure that persons who have been harmed by an infringement of competition law can effectively enforce their right to full compensation for the damage suffered against the infringer. During the drafting of the Directive, a twofold objective was set to optimise the interaction between the enforcement of competition law by public law, i.e. competition authorities, and private law, and to ensure that victims of infringements of EU competition law can obtain full compensation for the damage suffered. Following the need for regulation at European level, I would also like to mention in a few sentences how the transposition of the directive fits into the Hungarian legal system. As I mentioned earlier, according to Article M of our Fundamental Law, Hungary ensures the conditions of fair economic competition, takes action against abuse of dominant positions and protects consumers' rights. This principle is confirmed by the fact that, following certain unfair market behaviour, not only fair competition and thus market balance are restored, but also those who have been harmed by unfair conduct can be better compensated by the competition authority. The Directive, which forms part of the proposed legislation, provides the necessary conditions for achieving this objective and helps to make it easier to correct the negative consequences of abuse of dominant positions and market distortions due to restrictive agreements and concerted practices. Please allow me to briefly present the main provisions of the bill on damages actions relating to infringements of competition law, most of which are for the transposition of the Competition Compensation Directive. The bill seeks to ensure effective protection for victims in order to be able to act as effectively as possible against businesses which have caused them harm through their illegal activities. In accordance with the Directive, the scope of the right to compensation is very broadly defined by the bill, as it provides for the right to compensation to everyone who has been harmed by a competition infringement, whether it is a direct buyer or an indirect buyer, i.e. a person who has purchased the goods affected by the infringement not directly from the infringer but from its direct buyer or from a subsequent buyer. It has also been confirmed that the victim is entitled to full compensation for the damage suffered by the victim. It is well known that access to evidence is a cardinal element in the initiation of damages actions, as is the fact that legal proceedings for damages are characterised by information asymmetry, since the evidence necessary to justify the merits of the claim for damages is often held solely by the opposing party or by third parties and that the applicant is not sufficiently aware of or has access to such evidence. In order to facilitate the enforcement of the applicants' claims, the bill allows the courts, under their strict supervision, to order, at the applicant's request, certain evidence to be required to be disclosed either by the defendant or by third parties, including public authorities. This makes it possible for the applicants to assess the existence of their claims and to actually obtain compensation. However, in order to ensure equal opportunities, this possibility is also provided by the proposal to the defendants in damages actions. Here again, I would like to point out that the bill seeks to facilitate the enforcement of claims for damages for infringements of competition law in such a way that the enforcement of competition law by public law - the detection and sanctioning of infringements by competition authorities - is not undermined. Litigation programmes and settlement procedures are an important means of enforcing competition law in public law, as they contribute to the detection, prosecution and sanctioning of the most serious infringements of competition law. [[10.20]] At the same time, undertakings may be deterred from cooperating with competition authorities by having to disclose statements on their own, such as leniency statements or settlement submissions, prepared solely for the purpose of cooperation with competition authorities. The disclosure of this information would risk that the cooperating undertakings or their management would be able to rely on civil or criminal liability under conditions worse than those applicable to other offenders not cooperating with competition authorities. Such regulation would therefore jeopardise the effective functioning of leniency programmes and settlement procedures. In order to ensure that undertakings continue to be willing to contact competition authorities voluntarily by means of a leniency statement or a settlement submission, such documents are excluded from the scope of the evidence disclosure. It is also intended to promote the effectiveness of public enforcement when certain evidence is allowed to be disclosed only after the completion of the competition authority's proceedings in order not to jeopardise the competition authority's investigation strategy. Another essential element of the directive is that it seeks to ensure that only the damage actually suffered by the applicants must be reimbursed to the defendant. To that end, it allows the infringer to claim, as a defence against the claim for damages, that the actual loss of property was passed on by the applicant to his own customers, so that the damage was not actually realised on him. This defence of the defendant does not, of course, affect the right of indirect buyers to compensation. In addition to the above, the bill encourages the use of out-of-court proceedings in compensation for competition law, thus reducing the burden on courts. For reasons of legal certainty, the bill also provides for the application of the rules laid down in the Directive to damages actions where only the Hungarian competition law provisions are infringed. If there were different rules applicable to infringements of EU competition rules and infringements of Hungarian competition rules, the situation of the applicants, the extent of their claim, and the proper and uniform functioning of the internal market would accordingly be adversely affected. As I have already indicated, another important element of the bill is the amendment of the rules governing the merger of undertakings. In recent years, the Competition Authority has taken significant steps to reduce the administrative burden on undertakings associated with the authorisation procedure and speed up procedures within the existing merger licensing system of the Law on the prohibition of unfair market conduct and restriction of competition. As a result, average administration time has decreased significantly. The main aim of the proposed amendments is to further strengthen and support this trend as follows. The merger application procedure will be terminated, replaced by the merger notification and the initiation of an ex officio procedure on the basis of it. According to the bill, the merger notification must be examined by the Competition Authority without delay. If the terms of the concentration notification are sufficient to establish that the concentration clearly does not significantly reduce competition, the Competition Authority shall not initiate proceedings and shall notify the notifier within 8 days by issuing an official certificate, on the basis of which the concentration may be implemented in all cases. However, if, on the basis of the concentration notification, it is not apparent that the concentration does not result in a significant reduction in competition or that, on the basis of the concentration notification, it cannot be clearly decided, the Competition Authority shall, within 8 days, initiate the procedure for the assessment of the concentration. If no action is taken by the Competition Authority within the 8-day deadline, the merger may be carried out and the notification fee shall be refunded. The notification system thus eliminates the double division of fusion procedures - an examination and then a competition council - so that in cases which clearly do not require intervention, it may not be necessary to wait 8 days for the merger to be carried out without unnecessary or excessive burden on the resources of the Competition Authority. When determining the administrative service charges relating to the merger notification system as described above, the bill assumes that, if no competition supervision procedure is initiated on the basis of the notification, the costs of the Competition Authority will in any event be lower than if the current rules provide for a procedure. Therefore, the bill sets the administrative service fee for the merger notification at a significantly lower amount than the current administrative service fee of HUF 4 million for the so-called simplified procedure, in HUF 1 million. This significantly reduces the fee burden of the merger authorisation procedure. In the event of the launch of a competition monitoring procedure, its conduct will be identical to that in force, so the related additional administrative service charges of HUF 3 and HUF 15 million will not change as a whole according to the bill. Under the current rules, a concentration cannot be implemented until the GVH licence is obtained if the combined net turnover of the undertakings concerned exceeds HUF 15 billion and there are at least two undertakings concerned whose net turnover exceeds HUF 500 million. According to the bill, as regards the obligation to notify the enforcement ban, the latter, currently HUF 500 million, will be doubled to HUF 1 billion, which will substantially reduce the number of transactions in this area, thereby reducing the administrative burden for the companies concerned. At the same time, an increase in the threshold of HUF 500 million could reinforce the already existing problem that concentrations in the relevant markets with relatively low overall turnover could lead to a significant reduction in competition, in particular by creating or strengthening a dominant position. Similarly, it is increasingly common that start-ups with significant potential for ideas are purchased by capital-powered, large-scale companies, and since such start-ups do not yet have a turnover at the concentration reporting threshold, such acquisitions may therefore be outside the competition authority's field of view, although in these rapidly changing markets one such acquisition can influence the conditions of competition in the long term. Therefore, together with the increase in the notification threshold for enforcement bans, the Hungarian Competition Authority will also be given a new right to examine concentrations below the above thresholds if the net turnover of the undertakings concerned, together, exceeds HUF 5 billion and it is not obvious that the merger does not significantly reduce competition. In the interests of legal certainty and clarity, such mergers must also be notified to the undertakings concerned, but in such cases the execution of the transaction is not prohibited by law - this does not exclude any interference by the competition authority. In this context, too, for reasons of legal certainty, it is proposed that, in the case of such mergers, the legislative proposal provides for the opening of proceedings, in contrast to 5 years in general, no later than 6 months from the date of implementation of the merger. Finally, in order to make the above-mentioned leniency policy or settlement procedures more effective, it is proposed that undertakings which recognise the infringement in their proceedings before the GVH and waive the right to appeal before the court will be entitled to a reduction of up to 30 per cent instead of the previous 10 per cent. In addition, undertakings may apply for leniency for so-called vertical agreements containing resale price fixing, i.e. between non-competitors, which may result in a total remission of fines or a reduction in fines of up to 50 per cent. At the same time, such restrictions will be considered to be such in the future as can be sanctioned regardless of the small market share of the participating undertakings. Dear House, In order to comply with Hungary's obligation to transpose the Competition Compensation Directive and the entry into force of merger rules to reduce the administrative burden on businesses, thereby facilitating bureaucracy reduction, the bill described above is necessary. The adoption of the bill will also ensure that damages actions become an effective and accessible means of enforcing claims, taking into account the interests of victims, which includes a number of guarantee provisions in the existing legislation. I therefore ask that, after discussing the bill, you support it with your consent during the vote. Thank you for your attention. [[10.30]]
u2016-11-10-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, Mr Sándor Hadházy, may speak. Here you go.
u2016-11-10-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The public interest in maintaining competition in the market for economic efficiency and social ascent, as well as in the interests of businesses fulfilling the requirements of business integrity and consumers, requires the State to ensure the purity and freedom of economic competition by means of legislation. This requires regulation to provide adequate means for actions by public and private law in breach of the requirements of fair competition and of conduct on the market which restricts economic competition, and to prevent undertakings from competing against competition. In order to achieve these objectives, it is necessary to carry out a continuous assessment of competition law and, where appropriate, to correct it. The proposal before us essentially serves three purposes: the transposition of Directive 2014/104/EU on certain rules for damages actions under national law, based on infringements of the competition law provisions of the Member States and of the European Union, by amending the law on unfair market conduct and non-compete law, and the amendment of the rules of the same law on mergers of undertakings, in order to speed up procedures, simplify them, and a minor adjustment of certain provisions. The proposal is necessary because, pursuant to Article 21 (1) of the Directive in question, Member States are required to bring into force the legislative provisions necessary to comply with the Directive by 27 December 2016 at the latest. In addition, in line with the government's bureaucracy reduction efforts, the Hungarian Competition Authority has, as we know, been trying for several years to reduce the time needed to conduct its merger procedures and simplify procedures. The experience of law enforcement over the past period has shown that there is a need to rethink the provisions governing the law in this area. Now, please allow me to briefly describe the areas in which progress is to be made in response to the bill. The proposal makes the transition from the merger application system to the merger notification system. The merger application procedure is terminated, replaced by the announcement of the opening of proceedings in the office. This also means that the rules of the settlement procedure relating to the application will not apply mutatis mutandis to the authorisation of concentrations. One of the consequences of this will be the speeding up of procedures. A maximum of eight days will be available for the assessment of the notification, while deciding whether to acknowledge the notification or to initiate proceedings. Failure to do so would result in the merger being implemented and the notification fee should be refunded. Finally, the notification system can eliminate the double division of the procedures of the Hungarian Competition Authority - an examination and then a competition council - so it may not be necessary to wait eight days for the merger to be carried out in the event of a complete notification. The procedural fees will also be reduced. In the case of the notification, the fee of HUF 4 million is currently reduced to HUF 1 million, which significantly reduces the fee burden due to the merger authorisation procedure, which is estimated to be about one third of the merger fee income of the Hungarian Competition Authority and an average of HUF 40-60 million per year for companies. In the event of the initiation of proceedings, it will be the same as in force, so the related administrative service charges of HUF 4 and HUF 16 million will not change as a whole according to the bill, because the fees of HUF 3 and HUF 15 million under the bill, together with the HUF 1 million paid at the time of notification of the merger, will be equivalent to the current charges for the applicant. The proposal will reduce the number of authorisations. The current HUF 500 million threshold for the announcement would be doubled to HUF 1 billion. This threshold is particularly low in terms of GDP-related thresholds compared to the EU average, but also to similar thresholds in countries of the same size as us. Just to give you some examples. The rate for Hungary is 0.0016 percent, 0.0058 percent in the Czech Republic, 0.0099 percent in Belgium and 0.0034 percent in Croatia. The increase in the threshold of 15 billion is not justified, but the threshold of GDP is close to 15 billion Hungarians in several of the countries of our size. The Hungarian 0.047 percent, 0.036 percent in the Czech Republic, 0.025 percent in Belgium, 0.047 percent in Denmark. On the other hand, there are multiple differences between the major European countries. For example, France is 0.007 per cent, Germany is 0.017 per cent. In line with the practice of the majority of European countries, the proposal aims to modify the method of calculating the notification thresholds in such a way that Hungary's turnover and not the global economy are taken into account. According to an estimate made on the basis of cases over the last five years, around 10-15 percent of the current mergers, with an average of three to five cases per year, are proposed to remove mandatory controls due to increases in notification thresholds and changes in traffic calculation rules. The bill contains provisions on the regulation of competition damages actions in the following main regulatory areas. The proposal states that the provisions of the Civil Code Act and the Civil Procedure Act apply in the case of lawsuits for damages to competition with derogations contained in the bill. According to the bill, anyone who has been harmed by an infringement of competition law should have the right to compensation, whether it is a direct buyer or a seller, where appropriate, or an indirect buyer. It is confirmed that the victim is entitled to full compensation. The proposal allows the competition authority, at the request of the court, to provide information on its position on the occurrence, extent of the damage and the existence of a causal link. It shall not be obliged to draw up and present the position of the Economic Competition Authority and may refuse it without justification. The proposal states that, if the case concerned has been dealt with by the Economic Competition Authority or the European Commission, the court is bound by the final part of the decision of the Economic Competition Authority or of the European Commission which has not been challenged before a court or the court which has reviewed the decision, which may no longer be subject to regular review. Competition infringements are often committed by more than one undertaking. In view of this, it is necessary to lay down specific provisions on the common injury of more than one, by imposing more favourable rules for small and medium-sized enterprises if certain specific conditions are met, in the context of joint and several liability under the main rule. [[10.40]] However, the more favourable requirements do not apply where the small or medium-sized undertaking has played a leading role in the competition infringement, other undertakings have been forced to participate in or have been previously found to be subject to a competition infringement. The bill seeks to balance the interests of infringing undertakings in participating in the leniency policy with the interests of victims, including, among other things, the obligation to disclose the application for leniency as evidence and, on the other hand, the rules on the common harm. Competition damages lawsuits are currently characterised by information asymmetry. The evidence necessary to justify the merits of the claim for compensation is often held by only one party, typically the injured party or third parties, and cannot be accessed by the injured party. This obstacle to successful enforcement of claims, the institution for requiring the disclosure of evidence by a court, can be overcome by the need to strike a balance between the different interests of the parties concerned. Within the framework of the specific rules, it is also possible to submit a request for evidence in the case files of the competition authority. The bill aims to support the out-of-court settlement of damages caused by an infringement of competition law. To this end, the position of the infringement undertakings which are obliged to pay compensation to the injured party, which have entered into an agreement, is better defined than the position of the non-negotiable infringement undertakings in relation to the compensation to the injured party than to the obligation of the infringer to compensate each other. The bill also supports the use of alternative dispute resolution by amending the rules governing the imposition of a fine by allowing the Hungarian Competition Authority to take it into account as a mitigating circumstance in determining the amount of the fine to be imposed in the competition supervision procedure if, on the basis of an agreement concluded in an alternative dispute settlement procedure prior to the decision, the infringer paid compensation to the injured party for the infringement of competition law. Alternative dispute resolution is any procedure allowing for an out-of-court settlement of a dispute in respect of a claim for damages. Dear Parliament, As regards the other provisions of the law, the proposal proposes an amendment in the following area. Companies who recognise the infringement in proceedings before the Economic Competition Authority and waive the right to appeal before a court may receive a reduction of up to 30 per cent instead of the previous 10 per cent. In addition, undertakings may apply for leniency in respect of vertical agreements containing resale price fixing, which may result in a total remission of fines or a reduction in fines of up to 50 per cent. At the same time, such restrictions will cease to be of a minor nature in the case of a holding of less than 10 per cent. Last but not least, the proposal also strengthens the toolbox of the Hungarian Competition Authority. In parallel with the switch to the merger notification institutional system, it is necessary, like the European Commission, that the Hungarian competition authority have the possibility to conduct on-site research on fusion matters subject to prior judicial authorisation, thereby strengthening the validity of the information submitted by the undertakings, as this ensures the speeding up of the procedure. The Competition Authority, together with the increase in the notification threshold, will have the right to ex officio the concentration below the threshold but significantly reducing competition. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] examine of its own motion within one month of the conclusion of the transaction, but not more than six months after the conclusion of the merger. Dear Parliament, Please support this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-10-26	Thank you very much. Congressman László Szakács, head speaker of the MSZP, please.
u2016-11-10-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, We have heard several times today the argument contained in Article M of the Constitution, the state ensures the conditions of fair economic competition, takes action against the dominant position and, above all, seeks to protect consumers. Dear Secretary of State, If you were to apply these rules, you would be in great trouble on the one hand, and on the other - because in Hungary today the biggest concentration is between the economy and politics, not among the economic operators - but this is actually Article M of the Fundamental Law, which says that the Hungarian State ensures the conditions of fair economic competition against the dominant position, it is true, with the addition that the government does not want to do otherwise. There is a provision in which the merger, merger control, can be excluded at any time from the scope of the Competition Authority by reference to national economic interests and very, very foggy national interests. At any time, it can be decided in a government decree that, after all, this merger is a concentration that the Hungarian Competition Authority does not need to pay attention to. 18 of these, Mr Secretary of State, have done so in recent years, in order not to have any official control over this current transaction which is important to the government. You claim that this is important for the national economy. We believe that most of the time it's important to the government. That is true of the condition, the imposition of the Fundamental Law. You only want to take action against the dominant position and ensure the conditions of fair economic competition if you feel like it, because if you want to do something else than in 18 cases last time, you would not want to provide such conditions. This was, let's say, most of the purchases of the Main Gas in the country, when the Main Gas purchased the additional gas suppliers where, for example, in the case of Tigas - to give a very recent news - they acted in such a way that there was a settlement dispute, and it is likely that the former Tigas customers will now suddenly receive a huge invoice, about 60 percent higher than expected. Here, they did not consider it important to investigate; they did not consider consumer protection, abuse of a dominant position to be important. In fact, it's a political dominant position, and everyone understands that. They did not consider it important to ensure fair competition in the market. As I have heard from the proposals, it is not enough that so far you have brought such regulators - just like those who have been excluded from the jurisdiction of the Economic Competition Authority from the national economy - that you have created concepts where people can be pulled out of the tax cycle, of course, I am thinking of casinos. The concept of a reliable partner and a reliable organizer has been created. I can also think of gambling management, or the National Center for Home Creation, so it is you, politics, who distorts this competition. You tell me who's reliable. You tell us who doesn't have to pay taxes, and after that, we see that the remaining not too many roles of the Hungarian Competition Authority - I note in parentheses for which the Hungarian Competition Authority is not so hasty - are being reduced and simplified, by the way. The merger control procedure will be a simpler procedure, in Hungarian: the merger process will cost less. My fellow Member tells me that they expect three to five occasions, which is 15 percent of all the cases under review, where it will fall from HUF 4 million to HUF 1 million. If the three or five cases are 15 percent, we can easily calculate that there are some 40 to 45 cases where you leave a fantastic amount of money in the merger control, but not in the pockets of Hungarian SMEs. Hungarian companies were examined by the GVH in the least cases, only if there was some political interest. It should be pointed out that today the governing party is the biggest barrier to fair market behaviour in Hungary, since not the mergers between companies, but the mergers between the political and economic players should be examined, usually in Parliament, but sometimes even in the Economic Competition Office, if there is any demand for them. [[10.50]] I'll give you more examples. Once upon a time, the Hungarian Competition Authority managed to work so quickly. In a day or two, a decision has been taken that the merger of Mediaworks, Opimus and the companies around it does not in fact prejudice the question of fair market conduct. True, the result was that the door of the largest opposition newspaper could be closed, and since then, since a fine Saturday morning, this newspaper has not been published, nor can it even appear on the Internet site. You guys were already extremely effective there. I do not think that this is a market-protecting role for the Hungarian Competition Authority. At the time, however, the Hungarian Competition Authority did not act when the largest state company, Posta, was privatized, a merger where savings cooperatives, private investors were able to buy stock packages offering additional rights or a piece of stock that could take control of the entire Posta, without the Hungarian State being able to enforce its own will, and even if the Hungarian State was unable to block the private investor's will. You created this situation. From this situation, we can see that he is dealt with by a large number of newspaper articles, and the Hungarian government is not able to find a way out of this by means of a rule of law. Where was the merger control, Mr. Secretary? Where was the Competition Authority investigating mergers? What did the Hungarian Competition Authority conclude when they suddenly started selling the products of this private investor, Zoltán Spéder's bank, FHB? We asked the secretary of state, Lászlóné Németh, who came to the meeting of the Legislative Committee to see if another commercial bank could have had such a great pleasure, so fortunate that they were selling her product at some 1,700 post offices. He said it was really a quick decision. Secretary of State, this is how politics, political friendships and the economy are interlinked. This is not a state-of-law selection process, not a public procurement, to say that the State Secretary had to decide quickly. And now you want to make your decision even faster. Mr. Secretary. Speed and simplicity are aspects of cooking, not when we want to control economic operators and protect consumers. And because there is a European Union obligation that should be fulfilled on 27 December 2016, we will bring it here quickly to Parliament on 10 November 2016. I note only in parentheses that this is an EU regulation for 2014. I did not say as much as my fellow Member and tens of thousands in international comparison. What I wanted to show you, and we will also point out in the future, is that fair market competition in Hungary is actually distorted by the government, the governing parties and the policy and the concentration of the economy. You have put the Hungarian Competition Authority in a position where you have no idea what should be examined, what should not be examined, and what should be examined; you have put it in such a position. The Competition Authority is not able to act today, and, unfortunately, its claim to act in the way it was approved at the time is almost gone. I would like to ask you, Mr Secretary, to review your own activities in this regard, your own thoughts. If you refer to the Constitution, you should also quote the way in which you water down the basic rule of law that this is only true if the government does not want it otherwise, and the government generally wants it to do otherwise if the economic interests of pro-government politicians require it. In that case, the Hungarian Competition Authority will be shut down in an instant, but it will also be accelerated in an instant. I do not think that bringing a European Union legal principle here at the last minute will help and will prevail in the Hungarian legal system. Do it! Obviously, you'll be sued by your own partners. There would be normal economic competition, there would be a normal and fair market environment in Hungary if it weren't for the life of a Hungarian major contractor to get a political partner, if it weren't for the life of a Hungarian entrepreneur, how many favors to do to get to where he is. There would be fair market competition in Hungary, and perhaps even consumers could be protected if you were not interested in nationalising the energy sector. If companies close to government or government parties did not make a terrible profit in nationalising the energy market, nationalising the gas market. World market prices have decreased by 60-40 percent in the gas market and Hungarian households have not fallen. But that's the difference somewhere. Is that fair? Did that protect consumers, Mr. Secretary? I don't think so. If, on the basis of this provision, consumers would accidentally sue companies to which these fibres lead, I hope that they will not bring back the legislation in which these provisions are abolished. Thank you so much for your attention.
u2016-11-10-28	Thank you very much. Mr. Dániel Z. Kárpat, lead speaker of Jobbik. Here.
u2016-11-10-29	Mr President, Dear House, If it weren't for me, it would be frustrating for the all-time opposition speaker to speak after the government's leadership. My enthusiasm has not been taken away in six years from coming to you on the very important matters with the same lead. You have to go, because what you've been doing here could be good, and the painful fact is that in a very important area, you could have a very good impact. There are good tools in this package, too. What is painful to me, or even slightly offensive, is that both the Secretary of State and the Fidesz lead speaker have actually held a completely unnecessary 20-minute reading of the proposal, partly from its justification, when I would have been more interested in their own thoughts, visions and visions, as we have also read what they have read. Obviously, we are sitting in a debate by looking into what this is all about, so we could have been spared. The fact that KDNP couldn't stop the lead speaker, I'm not really surprised that this happens often in billings of an economic nature, and that's what they should account for themselves. We can see that the rewriting of competition law on the part of this government is at least spicy. I say this in addition to the fact that there are eligible elements of this package, which I will commend, of course in due time, but I hear from a government that has monopolised and eliminated the bulk of markets in these competitions, at least interesting. We could discuss in detail the question of the trade-concession, the amazing changes in the land market, and put your circle of acquaintances in a position. One of my favorites is the creation of NOK, so your state-of-the-art piloting game, where consumer groups were previously banned, at least for the future, to create new ones, because one or two of them could still work, but the organisers of consumer groups among you have highlighted their own friends and allowed them to create national home-building communities, so a state-monopolised pilot game. Obviously, it is expected that next year that the circle of friends of which minister is involved on this issue will be enhanced, and the secretary of state knows this much better than I do. Don't wave your head, you know better than I do, I don't need to explain it again. In addition to this piloting game called home creation, the casino market has also been subjected to amazing abuse by this government, which, by the way, will have economic policy implications, and a next government will be able to settle this market against you in a maximum and net period of three months. [[11.00]] [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] What we see when we look a little wider is that your strategic contracts also create an amazing distortion of competition in the market and even eliminate it in certain segments in Hungary. After all, the strategic contracts that were signed in an open or secret manner with individual players in the domestic multinational network are something amazing. We can list groups of companies where your amount of job creation support will cover the total wage for a period of one and a half or two years. So Hungary's budget, by means of your contracts, actually pays the total wage mass to multi-companies that operate in Hungary. We have to say that if there is any distortion of competition, then the amazing difference in support between a multi-company and a Hungarian, small- and medium-sized enterprise, this is an astonishingly disruptive system. At the same time, we also see that they are trying to help the GVH's activities, and I am in favour of doing so at last. Then, where appropriate, cartel cases should be focused at least on such issues and on abuses affecting the financial sector. With regard to the transfer of the transaction fee, you acted like a lousy duck along with the supervisory authorities, so it was completely passed on. In view of the perceived or genuine coordination of various bank packages, you and the supervisory bodies have not been able to act effectively. So the institutional looting of Hungarians and customers continues. These are extremely important issues, they should be attached; obviously not necessarily competition issues, but the House is also discussing proposals with consumer protection content this week, so it is time to address them. I understand the pressure you are under, the mandatory transposition of a directive of the European Union two years ago, which works on a deadline. You have therefore brought us a package, but I must say that, in addition to supporting certain elements, the justification was a bit false. For example, I support the fact that the bill reiterates that everyone is entitled to the right to compensation in respect of a supply chain. This is also true of lower-level actors. I am interested in Mr Secretary of State's personal opinion as to how the direct buyer can enforce this. I would therefore be interested in the enforceability of the interests of a simple customer and consumer, who is often at the end of the chain and is typically hardly represented by someone; because this is not apparent from the bill. Obviously, if you give the whole thing a reason, then it is worth talking about these issues, which are not written in them. They can be followed up, but they weren't really explained. And I am very pleased that it will be confirmed that the victim is entitled to full compensation. But as long as the conditions of enforceability are lacking, at least I do not see them clearly, because they are not seen in the proposal, we must say that this cannot be a satisfactory response. We also see that according to the new rules that are said to be smoother, 10-15 percent less transactions may have to be reported for the GVH. But with this, let's say, as far as the fusion issue is concerned, so few transactions need to be examined, that there really is no justification for this reduction in the burden. This does not save as much money either the Hungarian budget or the affected business community as you think. I see more of a need to investigate in more cases. There is a very strange point where the concentration should only be reported if the net turnover of the group of undertakings involved in the merger together exceeds HUF 5 billion. The fact is that in many market segments, it is far from necessary to reach 5 billion to create a situation that seriously distorts competition and requires intervention. I do not see reason for you to take out all the branches of the market from the scope of the investigation simply because a total turnover of 5 billion cannot be achieved net. To give you a specific example: the book market. The various mergers on the book market are often not 10 billion-dollar industries, yet they are of national strategic importance and influence nation-consciousness. And the amazing drop in standards that has occurred in this area over the last 10 to 15 years is indeed closely related to the market drivings that should have been taken up so that the otherwise excellent contemporary author and the result of their work can spread out in the wider circles of society. It's just a simple segment, apparently not an important area, more so to me. And different forms of online trading can also be included, where, in smaller industries, the total net turnover may not reach this amount. Nevertheless, it would be strategic to make it easier for small Hungarian startups to act and, where appropriate, to remove restrictions on competition. I do not see reason for the government to eliminate these options by setting a simple limit. It is possible to argue that the imposition of mandatory reporting in fusion matters is a good or bad thing, the 8-day deadline, which has been set from 30, may also be a question of discussion, whether it should be 15 or 20. I say, the faster, smoother these procedures go, the better for the national economy if we manage to maintain proper efficiency. But we also see that there is an amazing double standard on the part of the government. In the case already mentioned by my fellow Member, Mr Népszabadság, he defended this organ here, and I certainly will not speak for the protection of certain press organisations, but the procedure of the government and the related bodies certainly deserves to be addressed. Not specifically in this specific case, but for example, the fact that you see no problem with the network connected to this Opimus group is that this material company, Opimus Press Zrt. In fact, they are trying to monopolise the Hungarian press market, which is simply ridiculous. Anyone who doesn't see the media reorganization intention connected with a conscious and political network here either doesn't know this industry or doesn't want to see it. The fact is, in these cases, there is something to be done. But what we see is, as a knife, are these cases slipping through the control system a lot. From a procedural point of view, simply because one of the purchasers does not include publishing a newspaper in the field of activity, it is not possible to say that a group of companies does not want to rearrange the media market. And it's not about certain press organs, it raises procedural questions, where we see that there are serious restrictions on competition. The government does nothing, and as I said, it brings us a package that does not prevent these processes. Trafiks, land, land, and land are probably the worst market restructuring that the government has ever done while ignoring competition. With regard to the National Home-creation Community, casinos and strategic contracts, there are branches of the market where, under pressure from all kinds of competition, this government monopolises, absorbs, puts in a position good acquaintances, brings back previously banned forms of company as its own, think of consumer groups, and, simply contradicting itself, rapes entire branches of the market as it should not be in a fair national economy. That is why we ask you to reconsider the points raised here. Answer the questions asked, because we are here not discussing an EU directive that has been transposed, but the attitude of this government to the entire Hungarian national economy, the ability, the willingness, the willingness to instruct supervisory bodies, how much it wants, let's say, to interfere with the life of the GVH, because it is doing so with this proposal. Obviously, the directions are worth arguing about. I am saying that this organisation must continue its activities in favour of appropriate autonomy. Instead of narrowing down, I would like to broaden the scope of investigations, extending them to market segments that seem to be spinning in a value circle of not a hundred billion, yet strategically, from a nation-conscious point of view, at least as important. This government should not be satisfied with implementing and transposing an EU directive, because then we would not need a government, but a translation team. So I'm trying to send you a little more courage through the benches. Consider these aspects, and the national drivings to which you have been stuck in the last few years, think about it, even from the point of view that these drivings will have consequences, when reorganising certain market restructurings, a fair government will obviously go through an accounting process in a non-sacred and fair way. [[11.10]] Perhaps it would be better to put an end to these amazing abuses now, in this government cycle, because we would all be better off doing so. Within the interests of a fair national economy, every Hungarian farmer and farming organisation can easily find its calculation, less forced to operate abroad or emigration, because we see that this package would be suitable for much larger things to be settled. We're kind of missing the courage. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-11-10-30	Thank you. Erzsébet Schmuck withdrew from the keynote speaker's speech, so we have reached the end of the speaker's speeches. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone would like to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner.
u2016-11-10-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for the activities of my fellow Members during the keynote speeches, although we have heard a lot of things that are not the subject of the presentation, Mr President mentioned this. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: The framework of the general debate is wide!]] It is obvious that the discussion of these things, the discussion of everything, cannot be carried out within the framework of today's debate. My fellow Member, Mr László Szakács, made excuses that the state has shown increased involvement in certain market areas, such as the energy sector, and that competitive procedures are restricted. We all know that this increased engagement, unlike the privatisations of the previous period, reflects the responsibility of the State, and that the State is playing a greater role in order to regulate consumers and the market. As far as prices are concerned, we all remember the debates that took place in previous years, when the subject of the reduction was constantly on the agenda. At the time, the initial position of the MSZP was not that these steps could be taken, but that it was actually concerned about the miserable fate of the service providers. It is a bit interesting now to think that public actors and participants would be accused of not acting in the interests of consumers, since the 20 percent reduction in energy prices, which has been the result of recent years, is undoubtedly linked to the government, no matter how much the MSZP disputes this. [[Dr. László Varga: World Market Prices!]] As far as the fate of Népszabadság is concerned, we all know that the party foundation of the MSZP sold its shares. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Oh, my God!]] After that, Népszabadság became a cold market environment, where it turned out that it was not possible to raise losses of 5-6 billion in ten years of operation. [[Rushing from the benches of the MSZP. Dr. László Varga: Stop talking nonsense!]] And in that sense, it's not even marketable anymore. [[Dr. László Varga: You perform in a stupid way! What do you think you're doing?]] So probably the owner solved this issue in this way so that he could sell a package that might be viable and operational afterwards. [[Dr. László Varga: Shame on you! Sit down.]] The MSZP should be ashamed because the MSZP sold its shares [[Dr. Laszlo Varga: What do you think you're doing? You've applauded 17 billion for the campaign! It's a lot of noise.]] And you executed this. If he was so close to you, why did you get rid of him? [[Constant noise, interruptions, including Dr. László Varga: How dare you?!]] Do you think the government has to support the paper of the MSZP? [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: How many channels did you give to Andy Vajna? Dr. Laszlo Varga: Don't laugh. This is gonna end!]] Well, count it, everything's public, technically. [[The president's ringing the bell. Dr. László Varga: Choose your words.]] But I don't think it's the subject of today's proposal, I just mentioned that it shouldn't be untied. [[Dr. László Varga: All the stupid Internet portals!]] As for the directive transplant... [[Dr. László Varga: Enough already! Shame on you.]] Give me the minutes... [[Dr. László Varga: You will enter it! Don't get dirty. Dr. László Kács: They're keeping that report exactly.]] It's very nice...
u2016-11-10-32	My fellow Members, please calm down.
u2016-11-10-33	I thank the Member for allowing me to speak to him as my fellow Member, but I think that, on the basis of the words in Parliament, the representative of the government can certainly afford so many answers after I have only told the facts. [[Dr. Laszlo Varga: Just don't lie.]] This might hurt you. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: He is not telling the real facts! Dr. László Kács: There will be more facts!]] As far as the competition authority procedure is concerned, there is indeed a kind of expansion, since these procedures are possible not only at a threshold of 15 billion, but also at a threshold of 5 billion. As far as the relationship between the government and the Competition Authority is concerned, we know that the Hungarian Competition Authority is acting within the legal framework and not under government direction. [[Dr. László Kács: You keep narrowing down!]] Therefore, the legislation determines whether or not it has to act and what conditions and consequences it will carry out. The other stories mentioned, such as the topic of trade-related or concession-related matters, obviously cannot be discussed within the framework of this bill. Land - as a limited asset sold to farmers - and public land [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Shame!]] a very positive thing, because it's not in foreign hands, it's not in the hands of companies. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Secretary of State, that is not true either!]] which was the practice of the previous period. How would strategic agreements affect the restriction of competition? Maybe Congressman hasn't read this yet. They are practically declarations of intent to cooperate. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: I read a lot!]] Their content, which would limit competition or the market in any way, does not exist. And as for your relationship with the banks, again, I'm saying let's look at what's happened over the last few years. Accounting of banks, reimbursement of amounts returned to debtors and unfairly liquidated [[Dr. László Kács: We will see it!]] all attests to [[Dr. László Kács: I have a question like this next week!]] that these processes actually took place the other way around. [[Lajos Korózs: Foreign stock, Mihály Patai! And there's more to it.]] Just like you said. Thank you very much, in any case, for the activities of the Members and for the support of the bill. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-10-34	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. Next up is the 2003 LXXX on legal aid. General discussion of the bill amending law and certain laws on procedural matters until closure. The Government's referral is T/1271. Number 2 is available on the Parliament's IT network. First, I will also give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2016-11-10-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill before you makes a major contribution to reducing red tape and serving the interests of the law enforcement public. In keeping with the order of the laws to be amended, I will try to sum up the objective that is to be achieved by amending each law to you as follows. Article III of the 1952 Civil Procedure Act On the one hand, the bill provides a solution to the problems relating to the enforcement of the lawsuits brought to the end or to the limitation of enforcement. Under the provisions in force, the debtor of the contract may, without reference to the nullity of the contract, initiate two separate lawsuits where the court enforcement of the claim resulting from the contract has been ordered with an enforcement clause. On the one hand, it may request in an enforcement suit that enforcement be terminated or restricted and, on the other hand, it may enforce its claim in the general rule of law on the nullity of the contract. In the two cases, the courts essentially examine the existence of the same law on the same factual basis in parallel. This duplication of lawsuits, in addition to burdening parties with unnecessary costs and time, creates a number of procedural and substantive problems which are often judged differently by the courts, which have caused legal uncertainty. The problem is the T/11900 on the new civil order. Bill No. 1 will solve it properly. However, if the previous bill is adopted, the new rules will only enter into force from 1 January 2018, but anomalies will have to be dealt with in the meantime, namely Pp. in a manner that can be inserted into its current system. The bill before us therefore prevents, by two procedural instruments, two lawsuits from taking place in parallel on the same subject in essence, and all of this without withdrawing any rights from the parties compared to the legislation in force. On the one hand, it creates a special type of trial. If, after the entry into force of the bill, the party initiates proceedings for termination of enforcement or restriction of the contract by reference to the nullity of the contract, it shall no longer bring a separate nullity suit and, in the enforcement suit, also bring an action for invalidity against all the parties against whom it would otherwise have to bring proceedings under the general rules. The court therefore decides, in the context of the enforcement proceedings, to determine the nullity of the contract and, in the case of a request for annulment, to deduct the consequences of nullity. As another procedural instrument, the bill complements Pp. with specific suspension rules. Thus, if the party initiates an annulment suit prior to the enforcement action, the enforcement action which was subsequently initiated, based on invalidity, shall be suspended until the final judgment of the invalidity suit is reached. The same applies even if the annulment suit is not brought by the applicant for enforcement proceedings, and even if both proceedings are pending at the time of the entry into force of the proposed rules. [[11.20]] In addition to the above, the bill translates into legislation a large number of practices followed by the courts in order to facilitate enforcement. The termination of enforcement may be requested by reference to the fact that the enforcement law has ceased to apply to the whole claim, while the restriction of enforcement may be requested by reference to only part of the claim. In enforcement proceedings, the party often requests that only enforcement be terminated, but based on the data of the case, this would not be appropriate, but would be limited. In order to ensure that the party does not have to bring another action against the restriction following the possible rejection of the application for termination of enforcement, the bill requires the court to warn the parties of the possibility of the restriction and to give the applicant the opportunity to change his application and to defend the defendant against it. The warning of the court is, of course, not binding on the parties. The bill also complements Pp's rules on electronic documents. In the case of electronic documents, it is also important to preserve the way in which electronic documents are preserved and to ensure that, despite the passing of time, the presumption of non-fiction can be established in the case of electronic documents. To this end, the bill lays down the conditions under which the signed or stamped data of the archived electronic document shall be deemed not to be falsified until proven otherwise. The provision does not regulate a single specific way of archiving, but provides a framework for defining detailed requirements at government level. Finally, the bill is Pp. It also simplifies electronic communication. There is no need for continuous transmission of electronic certificates and copies of return letters on the basis of legal feedback. The proposed legislation therefore aims to ensure compliance with the needs of stakeholders, thus allowing greater flexibility and less burden for users. LIII of 1994 on judicial enforcement In the context of the amendment of Law No 87, it is important to point out that it contains amendments to the European Account Preservation Order for the purposes of harmonisation on the one hand and to reduce the possibility of abuse of the value of land used for agriculture and forestry. The former legal harmonisation provision seeks to facilitate the situation of law enforcement agents by drawing particular attention to the fact that, in proceedings relating to the European Account Preservation Order, the form referred to in Regulation (EU) No 655/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a European Account Preservation Order procedure, as a result of the amendment, is to be laid down in Regulation (EU) No 655/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the establishment of the forms referred to in Regulation (EU) No 655/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the establishment of a European Account Preservation Order procedure as a result of the amendment. The forms set out in the Commission Implementing Regulation shall apply. LIII of 1994 on judicial enforcement Law on the value of land used for agriculture and forestry is amended in order to ensure the possibility of redress for those land in relation to the estimated value of the National Land Fund as established or to be paid. In addition, avoiding any possible abuse, i.e. setting land value at an unrealisticly high traffic value during the implementation procedure. The 2003 LXXX on legal aid. The amendment of the law aims to achieve more objectives. On the one hand, it also contains legislative harmonisation provisions aimed at assisting enforcers with an explicit reference to Council Regulation (EC) No 4/2009 of 18 December 2008 on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters relating to maintenance and cooperation in this field. In addition, there are further legislative harmonisation provisions on Directive 2012/29/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 laying down minimum standards on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime and replacing Council Framework Decision 2001/220/JHA. In accordance with the Code of Criminal Procedure, it displays all possible outcomes of criminal proceedings by adding to the list so far a reference to the partial omission of the investigation and to the delay of the indictment. The amendments to the Law on Legal Assistance also clarify the text of the Act in the context of the legal aid register that legal aid providers are to be entered in the legal assistance register by means of a service contract with the legal assistance service and by means of a non-official act. In fact, it has been possible to enter into the register of legal assistants by entering into service contracts, but the wording of the law also referred to an act of law or to an administrative procedure in an ambiguous manner. The amendment is intended to eliminate this ambiguous wording. A further amendment that is important for the operation of the legal assistance system is that the amendment of the law allows the legal assistance service to register the legal assistance register in a split way as to whether the legal assistance advocate, acting as a lawyer, is capable of electronic communication under the rules in force since 1 July 2016 in civil proceedings. Based on the relatively low number of legal aid providers and the fact that there is currently no way for the authority leading the legal assistance register to detect how many lawyers in the legal assistance register currently have the background for the above-mentioned service, it is important to create a transitional period for both the government and legal aid providers to assess the number of persons who will be able to provide legal assistance after the full electronicisation of procedures. The differentiation of the list of legal assistants aims to achieve this objective. CLXXXXIV of 2010 on the name, seat and jurisdiction of the courts. LX 2015 amending Act No. Law No 1 of 1 January 2018 provides for the establishment of the Érd District Court. On the basis of the initiative of the National Court of Justice Office, given the planning and execution processes for the establishment of the court, the Competent Law and the amendment of the 2015 LX. It has become necessary to amend the law. The amendment serves the safe feasibility of the infrastructure investment needed to set up the Érd District Court by extending the deadline for the establishment of the Érd District Court by one year to 1 January 2019. The area of jurisdiction of the Érd District Court will extend to seven settlements, which currently belong to the jurisdiction of the Budaörs District Court, following its entry into force. These are Diósd, Érd, Pusztazamor, Salt fountain, Százhalombatta, Tárnok, Turkish Ballin. At the same time as the Court of Justice of Érd, the jurisdiction of the Budaörsi, the Budaörnyéki and the District Court of Szentendre will be amended in order to extend the area of competence of these district courts to the municipalities of the appropriate districts. As a result of the amendment, the jurisdiction of the Budaörs District Court corresponds to the municipalities of Budakeszi district and the jurisdiction of the Budaörnyék District Court covers all the municipalities of Pilisvörösvári district. For this reason, I recommend the bill to the attention of the honourable Members and gentlemen, asking for their support. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-10-36	Thank you for the presentation. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Imre Vas, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-11-10-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, As a member of the Fidesz faction, in agreement with the government, we consider it necessary to correct the rules on electronic contact with courts in order to ensure that the register of legal aid is not empty, i.e. we support the 2003 LXXX on legal assistance. a bill amending laws and certain laws relating to procedural matters. The bill proposes amendments on four major issues, which I would like to discuss below. The first topic: the bill is set out in Article III of the 1952 Civil Procedure Act. Pp intends to amend the law. 369. In the case of a unilateral declaration of commitment under paragraph (a) of the first subparagraph, in the case of actions relating to the invalidity of the underlying contract, in respect of the annulment or restriction of enforcement, and in the case of a one-sided declaration in the instrument of an enforcement clause. [[11.30]] It should be noted that in the case of proceedings for the termination or restriction of enforcement, the applicant may lodge an action for termination of enforcement, but at the same time it may arise in the course of the proceedings that there may be a restriction. The law provides that in this case the court must warn the parties of this possibility and ensure that the parties make the necessary statements in this regard. This basically applies to supplementing the action. According to this bill, in cases initiated after the date of entry into force, it provides that the enforcement or restriction proceedings are based on invalidity, i.e. if the applicant requests the termination or restriction of enforcement by reference to the fact that the contract on which the claim is based is invalid, an action must also be brought in this case concerning the nullity of the contract on which the claim is based. This action should also be brought against all the parties involved, who, by the way, need to be sued for invalidity of the contract. With this regulation, a special type of action is created, in which the court decides not only to terminate or limit enforcement, but also to invalidate the contract on which the claim is based, or to deduct the consequences of nullity in the case of a request for such action. The second theme covers the provision of legal assistance, which the State is obliged to provide on the basis of several Community acts. The right to legal assistance itself is assessed by the legal assistance service - currently carried out by the metropolitan and county government offices, next year by the district offices - in the course of an official procedure, and decides on the form and extent of legal assistance to be provided to the applicant, which is decided in the light of social needs. Pp. Since its amendment on 1 July 2016, representation in civil proceedings shall be exercised only by persons who have the necessary conditions for the regulated mode of electronic communication. Based on the experience of the Office of Justice, as the authority leading the register of legal aids, legal aiders and advocacy lawyers in the register of legal aid typically belong to the age group, who do not necessarily have the technical conditions for electronic contact. If there is no change in the register of current legal aid providers that allows the register to distinguish between a protective lawyer capable of using the form submission support service and other legal aid providers, the projection of the stricter provision to all legal aid providers would be in danger that the register of legal aid would be empty, i.e. few. in it. This can be prevented by allowing the choice of persons asking for legal assistance to be included in the register, i.e. whether they have such or not, or by the Office of Justice, which manages the register, to assess the number of persons in the current legal aid staff who have the necessary conditions for electronic contact and to request that an adequate number of legal aiders be added to the register. In the light of practical experience, the inclusion in the register of legal aid is not the result of an official act but of a service contract concluded with the management authority of the register. This is also the case at present on the basis of the rules in force, but the current text of the legislation uses an ambiguous phrase referring to an administrative procedure or to an official decision, which needs to be amended accordingly. The third subject is the 1994 LIII on judicial enforcement. The aim is to amend the law. In the implementation procedure, the executive shall also inform the National Fund of the value of the land used for agriculture and forestry, in addition to the parties and holders of the rights entered in the real estate register, so that the possibility of presenting an enforcement objection to the assessment of the value of the National Land Fund by a court may be raised. This step can be explained by the fact that this will also avoid potential abuses, i.e. the possibility of establishing land value at an unrealisticly high traffic value during the implementation procedure. It should be known that in the enforcement procedure, non-residential property can be reduced to 50% of its value, if it is unrealisticly high, then the land cannot be auctioned. Last but not least, the fourth creates the necessary conditions for the establishment of a district court in Érd. Therefore, the time limit for setting up a district court is one year later, i.e. it will be changed to 1 January 2019. This provision is necessary because of the tasks to be solved in respect of the property in which the court is situated, which takes time to settle. Accordingly, the 2010 CLXXX on the name, seat and jurisdiction of the courts will be amended accordingly. LX 2015 amending Act No. Act 1 and Act LXVIII of 2016 on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2017 Law. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, This bill is, in our view, eligible without party political affiliation. Please support the adoption of the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-10-38	Thank you. I give the floor to Lajos Korózs, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2016-11-10-39	Thank you. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, The law before us is a typical salad law, and some of its provisions are only linked by the fact that each of these acts, managed by the Ministry of Justice, is about to be carved out, and in addition, there are only 10 sections of the 29 sections of the proposal to amend the legal aid provided for in the title. That is, even the title of the proposal is misleading, as it gives the impression that the major proposal on legal aid lies before the Parliament, while we are dealing with only one salad law. It would have been very timely to amend legal assistance in a large way. At present, the new civil order before the Parliament, which will enter into force on 1 January 2018, requires the use of the legal representative. This significantly undermines the possibilities of enforcing the rights of citizens with lower incomes, and equal rights and social justice therefore require that, at the same time as introducing new rules of procedure, the legal assistance system be renewed and extended. My colleague Gergely Bárándy expressed his opinion below in the debate on 12 September. I quote: "If someone is forced to sue, or is expected to spend more on a legal representative than before, or is placed in a more disadvantaged position. If you entrust a legal representative, you can expect significantly higher costs than the current one, because the bill, in some cases necessarily, achieves the effectiveness of the lawsuit by requiring much more prepared, formalised submissions and actions in court. [[11.40]] It is necessary to stress that this is in itself the right and logical direction, but it is a direct consequence of the increase in the costs of legal representatives, as they generate substantial extra work. And if you are going to act without a legal representative, albeit less formalized, but you have to prepare or do them yourself, you will also be involved in a lawsuit where you and the opposing party acting with the legal representative are subject to different rules. This will also necessarily lead to a complicated procedure and to procedural disputes in which, without a legal representative, the party will not be equal to the best intention of the court. Thus, the new civil order again benefits the rich and the wealthy and puts the poor in a worse position. In other words, due to shortcomings in the surrounding legislation, in many cases it does not guarantee genuine equality of law. "Today, you can get a lawyer on the subject if I know that," says my fellow Member, "if you don't make more than 26 thousand forints a month. We know, of course, that - and this has already been quoted by Congressman Barándy - that, according to Fidesz people, there are 47,000 forints to live on. Have you considered that, in addition to such rules, there is really time now to extend the force of attorneys? Of course, this approach is exactly in line with the words of Lajos Kósa, leader of the Fidesz faction - my fellow Member quoted here: -. Under a certain threshold, anyone who wants to sue, but pay the full administrative costs, there is no tax exemption, no discounts. A clean speech, my fellow Members: those who are well-off can enforce the truth, and those who are not, let them rest in their fate. Now what do we see in Pp? If you can afford to hire a lawyer, you can sue if you can't, and you can't. I know there's always been a need for a lawyer, but instead of starting to think about expanding the force of attorneys when they've already qualified the protective counsel system for this, they're taking it the other way around. This is unacceptable to us. They are a small means of tearing apart a society, as social scissors become more and more open. I hear this in response: this is precisely the problem that the proposal eliminates by setting different legal rules depending on the legal representation in the case. However, there are two problems with this: one is that in the case of coercion cases from which, I stress, there will be more and more in the new Pp., these different rules do not apply, as there is a need for a lawyer. The main problem, however, is that instead of a legal representative financed by the State, they use, as a substitute act, legislation that threatens legal certainty, judicial independence and, in other respects, equality before law. The solution is bad for both the party acting without a legal representative, the opposing party and the judge. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear House, As we can see, it is even doubtful that the proposal achieves the objective of the legislator, i.e. the retention of non-competitors who are not prepared for electronic administration. The 15th on this issue. §2 appears to be more of a tightening-up than an easing-up. There is absolutely no indication that the State is trying to help these lawyers acquire the knowledge necessary for electronic administration and ensure the conditions. It is quite shocking and the shame of government legislation that the proposal amends Pp again because of the rules of electronic administration. When the proposal was submitted, on 28 October, the parliamentary debate on the 124-page package amending 95 laws was not yet over, which is T/12173. It was a law aimed at establishing the necessary rules for the establishment of a single electronic administration system. This package of laws also amends Pp. its rules on electronic administration. Such changes to the rules have taken place in all sessions in recent years. This completely undermines legal certainty, makes administration impossible, and even puts practicing lawyers at an almost impossible challenge, let alone law-seeking citizens. The MSZP therefore consistently rejects the laws that provide for the application of the rules of electronic administration. The provision of the proposal which narrows the scope of notifications to be sent in the course of electronic service cannot be supported, in principle. This is justified by a reduction of the burden on users. Indeed, notification by mass may be annoying, but it is also appropriate to send often annoying notifications on consignments and events which may have a significant impact on the enforcement possibilities of litigation parties. In the context of the new civil order before the Parliament, several requests were made to the parliamentary factions from foreign exchange legitimists expressing their concern that a lawsuit against the termination of enforcement cannot be brought on the ground that the claim was not validly established. However, this concern seems to be unfounded, given that a lawsuit for nullity can also be brought under the new civil order and that enforcement can be suspended under the new rules. The same problem is also addressed in the current Pp., in a seemingly correct way. Summa summarum, although the title suggests otherwise, this bill is not about changing the substance of the legal aid system, it is about a simple salad law, the provisions of which are only linked by the fact that each of them is about the carving of one of the laws administered by the Ministry of Justice, as I referred to at the beginning. It would be very timely and timely to amend the system of legal assistance. The new civil order currently before the Parliament, which will enter into force on 1 January 2018, requires the use of the legal representative. This could significantly undermine the possibilities for the enforcement of citizens with lower incomes, as I also referred to when I quoted Dr. Bárándy. Therefore, equality of law and social justice require that the system of legal assistance be renewed and extended at the same time as the introduction of the new rules of procedure. But there's no record of it in the bill, unfortunately. Instead, the rules on electronic administration of civil procedure are being amended again. This is particularly shocking in the light of the fact that, when the proposal was presented, as I mentioned, the parliamentary debate on the 124 pages of the aforementioned legislative package, which was aimed at establishing a single electronic administration system, was not yet completed on 28 October - this was a bit unHungarian. This package also amends the rules of electronic administration. In recent years, we remember that such an initiative took place at every session. In particular, it is ironic that such amendments will be submitted to the Parliament under the title of legal assistance, as a salad law. In view of this, the bill cannot be supported on our part. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-10-40	Thank you. I now give the floor to György Rubovszky, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2016-11-10-41	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Allow me not to repeat what my fellow Member Vas Imre has said. Christian Democrats also support the adoption of this law. On the subject of Lajos Korózs's speech, I would like to say this. Pp. His debate was closed, he has already been through committee proceedings, and I recall that there is a procedure before the Legislative Committee, as well as Parliament's work on the summary amendment and the final vote. This is what you should have noticed. When this bill discusses the Pp. amendment, in particular the electronic procedure, it intends to settle the period, the transition, which is Pp. as of 1 January 2017. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. This introduces a gradual process, which I consider appropriate. I would like to draw attention to a danger, and that is actually the most important issue in terms of legal assistance. I have been a member of the Budapest Bar Association since 1970, which is a rather beautiful past, given that I am over 46 years. My age is going to have a hard time learning electronics. [[11.50]] I remember that the company process meant a lot of suffering and a lot of stress for me. Two thirds of my own age don't deal with company law because they can't and won't go through with the electronics of company procedures. Under these circumstances, this is a serious threat. There could be more perspective on this thing. One approach is to speed up justice. From this point of view, this electronic procedure may be justified without further delay, but I will make a few comments on this in the next bill. On the other hand, there is one aspect of this matter that there is a social class whose income consists of not saying that it is still on Erika's typewriter, but that it is doing its work in a rather low-cost fashion compared to today's procedural needs. These elderly people are getting out of practice. And I would like to draw attention to a very unfair decision. As long as the incomes of ordinary workers and ordinary people are calculated in the pension calculation by valorizing income earned in older years, lawyers had a law that could be taken into account up to a maximum of HUF 20,000, not beyond that. The consequence of this is that, no matter how much social security the lawyers have paid, they can only retire with an extremely low pension. Under these circumstances, there is a layer whose livelihood is in serious danger. Dear Parliament, What I would like to mention is the issue of the seat and jurisdiction of the courts. I am in favour of a year later, from 1 January 2018, the District Court of Érd will be set up, but we very much hope that the administrative courts will somehow be established, and in this Christian Democrats have a motion to replace Budaörs with the Pest County Administrative Court in Érden. In these circumstances, it is obviously necessary to address an investment and investment that gives us the opportunity, if we manage to bring together this administrative tribunal, which would in fact show the interests of professionalism - and the essence is that it would not be next to all the courts, but I recall that there would be six units in the country alone - this clearly points to Érd, all the more so, because in the territory of Pest County there is another city with county rights, which is Érd. It's a special surprise that until 1918, Érd didn't have a district court. Dear Parliament, In view of the above, I would just like to reiterate that the Christian Democrats are in favour of the proposed bill. I would like a little more attention on the assessment of older lawyers in legal aid. At the same time, we ask that the bill be adopted by this House after discussion. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-10-42	Thank you. I now give the floor to Gábor Staudt, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-11-10-43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Mostly, the proposal before us does indeed make corrections, there are important points in it, and there are some that can be considered technical. In general, I would like to say a few words, some thoughts about electronic administration, because a constant debate between us is that the pursuit is there, but why the transposition into practice is blocked, or what the bodies are or who the lawyers are as separate entities who can't pick up the speed. In practice, I asked what the lawyers were experiencing; here we are talking about colleagues who are already using the electronic system - and most of them are such that they have to use it - in the company procedure for a long time, and now in the courts. By the way, it should be seen that the courts are not prepared for this in many cases to receive these documents. So it's about lawyers trying to switch over to the system - obviously they don't have any other options - but the courts seem to have not received adequate infrastructure and financial support to properly implement it. What am I talking about? To give some specific examples: these documents will be submitted, there are many times that they are simply lost and never reached. Believe me - and I'm not saying that from a lawyer's feedback - they send it, they get the confirmation, and it doesn't get there. And then the argument begins that the court didn't get it for some reason, or they might have gotten it and misplaced it; but I don't think they'll get it, somewhere in the electronic space these documents will be lost, and then the lawyer can prove that they've submitted it. Obviously, you have evidence in your hand, but it's always hard to overcome the court, even if the lawyer is right in this case, because the other side might be able to tell us what we didn't get. There is - and I have heard that this is a little more hairy - that in many cases the courts expect these documents to be submitted in printed form, however. The reason for this is that they have no capacity - Mr Secretary of State, imagine, this is something you can hear - even for photocopying. In a big case, it could be hundreds or thousands of pages, but in smaller cases it could be heard that lawyers said that they were called from the court to submit this proposal in six copies. And when they referred to it as Pp. of course, they are not officially informed that this is true, but if they want to be set for trial on time, they should do this small favor for the court. Yes, Secretary of State, this may even be a comedy, but if this is a common case, it should somehow be blocked, and if not otherwise, by making the right financial capacity available to the courts, and then by not allowing loopholes to turn to lawyers with such requests, unofficial requests. And then it was just one case, a number of these cases prove that the transition is not an easy thing to do. Of course, it can be said that all beginnings are difficult, but I think that what experience has been gathered in the company procedure has also been in operation for some time in the courts, the court courts and the client gate system, should have been implemented somehow more effectively towards the courts. I have no idea how compatible these are, so let's say the experience accumulated in the court-martial system is able to appear in the normal court system, or maybe separate tenders have been issued, but it is certain that the system needs to be improved. By the way, it is a small matter, but I was pleased - and I told you the other day about a similar proposal - that the scope of notifications to be sent to the customer during the electronic delivery process - and this is also true of the customer's doorway - is narrowing. [[12.00]] That's good, because you often get five or six notifications for a submission that it's filed or archived, received, I don't know, I can't go through it, so it's actually unnecessary for a submission to be charged to the customer's mailbox with all kinds of emails that we say about the customer gate, if you need a certificate, you can download it. But we trust that we can move forward on these issues. As regards the nullity lawsuits of the treaties, there was, and there is still a big misunderstanding about the new Pp., I think it should be tried to resolve this, because, at the committee's meeting, I also asked the Secretary of State that many lawyers also interpreted the new Pp. as being removed from the lawsuits to terminate the implementation, the new Pp., the nullity of the basic contract, or not the pass. That's why there was a mix-up, because many people thought it would get out. Actually, we're dealing with the same case. Now I understand that parallels should not be created, Mr. Secretary of State shows this and I understand that there is logic in that. What I don't know or don't understand is why this hasn't come up before. So it may be that the courts, perhaps you said so, have applied it, or technically that is the case, but then it was, to say the least, a serious legal vacuum, which can be found in the current Pp., or caused uncertainties. I assume it's the new PP. In its codification, they have found this problem and are trying to eliminate it, even before it enters into force, in the current Pp. I don't know what the possibility of this was in the preliminary proceedings, but this, which I have raised, and they are circulating on the Internet, is that in the future the contract will no longer be able to be challenged on the basis of an execution, and it seems that this could be done, then perhaps it should have been brought to the better attention of the profession. Obviously, the profession also has a responsibility to attend the conference and ask questions. The reason I'm telling you right here in front of the National Assembly is that this is a real problem, and it doesn't seem to have gotten enough for lawyers, law enforcement, and then what we can expect, say, from an average foreign exchange-credited citizen who trusts and believes in his lawyer. So these questions would have been better or better clarified, and the National Assembly could have been such a field. Then, in order not to get stuck on this subject, the 7th floor. Jumping to §8, here the right to information about the National Fund of Earth and to information about values is a good thing in itself. I don't know, and I don't know how many times the Earth Fund buys these areas. What I see from the outside is that unfortunately, there is an opposite trend here with regard to land sales. This is a bit of a link right now, but you are not a legal issue in this regard, but on the one hand it is a good regulation, but we can only see that it is not certain that they will live with it, because unfortunately, a sales trend has taken place in the past period. So it would be better to put this into the law while we see that state lands can grow. However, this technical amendment is eligible. We don't agree with land policy anymore, but, as I said, it's more of the responsibility of the other ministry, the Ministry of Agriculture. And then there's the list of legal aids and the procedure. Here the dilemma is a little bit that my fellow Member Rubovszky expected leniency and understanding on behalf of the old lawyers. This is a difficult question, because we do not ask for an extension for older judges, who, let's say, are not retired, so those who are active judges may not be classified in the same age category as lawyers in the same age category, because a lawyer, if he feels spiritually, does not have to retire, as judges do. However, it is important to see that everyone has to go some way with age. By the way, many older lawyers, through their candidates or employees' lawyers, if they have, say, a larger office or even a medium office, can perform this task. I know, of course, there are people who are one-man lawyers who want to work. In this case, however, it always arises whether, then, these lawyers have the up-to-date status here, because most of the legislation is also published in the Gazette, but... - I don't know. If there are still lawyers who are informed only from the Gazette, I think it is a very minimal minority of the lawyer society, and as quickly as new laws come, and as many of them have to look for a key word, it is very difficult to do so in a bulletin. So you'd have to encourage older lawyers to switch to this. So I feel that it is not good for us to turn to, say, a priority group with too much permission, and otherwise, for other groups, we expect them to go further. Perhaps our fellow Member Rubovszky said he couldn't, wouldn't. It is difficult words, because the inability to do so exceeds its efforts, the unwillingness of a Daffe resistance when one clings to the typewriter, so that he refuses to switch. So I understand that there is a moral dilemma in this, but I would expect these lawyers to try and adapt as much as possible. It is also about who can act as a legal aider, advocate lawyer, or help the citizens in need. It may be a message of this, I feel that the state is actually providing legal aid, patronial assistance through lawyers who are no longer so up to date. So - to say - before retirement or after retirement, I don't want to say that he is a typewriter worker, because it might be a little populism, but in many cases you can see it; so the state seems to treat this whole legal aid thing a little bit as if the poor man would be good at being a typewriter lawyer. There's a message in there, and we can argue about it, of course, but I think there's a message in there that might be a little painful for the poorer citizens. As for me, it was not quite clear from the comparison between the norm text and the explanatory statement that, in one case, as regards the norm text, it is not necessary in civil proceedings, so there must be the same ability to communicate electronically, and the explanatory memorandum states that this does not have to be the case in criminal matters, litigation or out-of-court services or in civil matters. So in the norm, I would understand the civil procedure as well as the litigation and the non-court, and in the explanatory statement, the non-court is taken out of it. I don't know if it's the justification or the 15th. There is a difference between Section 3 and codification, or perhaps I misinterpreted this clause; perhaps, Mr Secretary of State, if you ask for it. So it was not clear to me that this exception now applies to criminal matters, that they can act, that there in the litigation case or, in the civil case, civil proceedings as a whole are linked to electronic contact, or that the non-court is taken out of it. It's small, but it might be important in some cases. And I also have to say that this introduction, as regards legal aiders and patrons, has shown us that the system should be reconsidered, so I think that it is now at the minimum that the Union expects, but the state cannot help citizens in need with sufficient efficiency, and it is also true that what we have heard is that these financial borders and income limits are very low, and that in Hungary there should be a wider circle of access to legal assistance services. I trust him and we trust that this will happen. This is only a very small correction, and we are very dissatisfied with this system, i.e. the whole legal assistance system. We hope that, sooner or later, a modern 21st will come before Parliament. It's a 100th-century system. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]] [[12.10]]
u2016-11-10-44	Thank you. The LMP faction is not present, so we have reached the end of the keynote speeches, and I now give the floor to Congressman György Rubovszky in a two-minute time frame.
u2016-11-10-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I asked for the floor because it seems that I misunderstood what I said. It is clear from the bill itself that the personal framework for legal assistance is not uploaded at the moment, because there are not enough applicants. Large law firms will not take such a job, nor will they sign up to provide legal assistance for this minimum financial benefit. I already referred to the beginning of my career, at the time I served six legal places in the 14th law firm, the secondments, because at that time the lawyers' working communities could be assigned to criminal matters, and in the same way they could be assigned to protective counseling under legal aid. At the time, this was supplied to the community of workers with the candidates for lawyers. It is feared that older people, who are already retired, now undertake these legal assistance activities as an income supplement, especially in rural district courts. If we impose a limit on them and the number of them will decrease, then the whole legal aid could simply be on the rocks. This should be understood, and this should be accepted. It's not about a lawyer's livelihood. Technically, the frame is not uploaded to this day, and they won't be able to upload it, and if there are tightening ups, then this number will decrease. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] which is recognised by the explanatory statement itself and says that the possibilities of this framework must be taken care of. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-10-46	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt in two minutes.
u2016-11-10-47	Thank you. Yeah, I understand perfectly well that it's not charged, and it would be reduced further if we tightened it up, but then the system needs to be changed. Or you have to make more money on this, give me one, but I'll tell you something better that doesn't cost money. What then - because the lawyer is part of the justice system, so not only a private contractor who does not have any criminal proceedings or part of it, but also civil lawsuits over a certain volume - would it be difficult to imagine if it were imposed - whether it could be proportionate to income or to the income of the law firm - how much part should be involved, let us say, even free of charge, to assist in a legal assistance service? The big law firms may be attacking me, but I don't think it's from the devil to say that the small lawyer is doing so much, but the big office is taking on a pre-defined - or it's bound to take on a predefined capacity - and even in a way that the state hasn't compensated - legal assistance for those who, let's say, the state is channeling them through the system. So I think this should fit, because in the case of someone carrying a large law firm, or if we're talking about a large office, where in many cases there are very large incomes, you can help the judiciary back to its effective functioning, or if you have clients in a pan of the balance sheet, let's say, big companies to whom you can bill things for, say, 50 to 100 thousand forints an hour, you can also help some people in need, and this could be laid down in legislation. So I have ideas, let's call a five-party group, and I'll share it with you. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-10-48	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see a candidate. I therefore close the general debate and give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary.
u2016-11-10-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to some of the things that have been said, although my fellow Members seemed to reflect on each other, so we have managed to discuss some of the issues in this way. My colleague, Mr Lajos Korózs, is the new Pp. he mentioned that the system of legal assistance was not developed. It was also mentioned by the Commissioner for Ministers herself at the committee meeting that the system of additional legislation will be set up within the Pp. in the next year, so hopefully this issue will be resolved with satisfaction. Of course, the problems that my fellow Member Rubovszky and my fellow Member Staudt mentioned will obviously have to be dealt with in order for there to be enough applicants. The financial or framework that needs to be provided for this to be resolved will be the task of the next many years. Which is 15. The question relating to Section 2, the patron lawyer, this only exists in the litigation procedure, so there is no such problem in respect of non-court proceedings, because legal assistance exists naturally and is not specifically mentioned because the legal assistance provider is not listed there as a protective lawyer. I think it's been said that there's a legal vacuum here in the enforcement lawsuits. I'd say it was a kind of doubling, so you didn't leave the law untreated, but you did use a double solution, which hopefully we can manage now and in the new Pp. in a reassuring way. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-10-50	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. We now have a general debate on the bill to amend and speed up procedures for the registration of civil society organisations and companies until closure. The government referral is T/12722. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I will also give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice.
u2016-11-10-51	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Issues concerning civil record are closely linked to the freedom of association under the Fundamental Law, so everyone has the right to establish organisations and to join organisations. The specific area of the right of association is the registration of entities established under the right of association. The 2011 CLXXXI on the judicial register of civil society organisations and the related procedural rules. The creation of a law was an important milestone in the regulatory path, the ultimate aim of which was to ensure the smooth, predictable procedure and not least the rapid registration of legal persons resulting from the right of association. However, feedback from law enforcement in recent years has shown that the procedure governed by the Civil Registration Act is in practice cumbersome, unpredictable and rather lengthy. This has already endangered the exercise of the right of association guaranteed by the Fundamental Law and its everyday functioning. In view of this, the legislator had to take stock of the possibilities of moving forward and find the means to prevent the delay of proceedings in a normative manner and on an objective basis. Whether as a member of a civil society organisation or as a legal representative of a civil society organisation, we can see on a daily basis that the interpretation of the law of the courts in the course of registration procedures is often not uniform, and that is why it is unpredictable for civil society organisations to take a judicial decision on their application. The involvement of the prosecutor in the registration and registration procedure of civil society organisations makes it more difficult for the courts to deal with it because the prosecutor acts as a quasi-competitor in proceedings. In many cases, the court does not issue court settlements on the basis of its own professional convictions, but takes into account the interpretation of the law of the prosecution, the formal requirements required by the prosecutors. In order to prevent a subsequent appeal by a prosecutor, the court shall also require that the conditions which it considers unnecessary or, in the absence of which, it may accept the application or other document be met. The appeal of the prosecutor against a court registration order further complicates these proceedings. These circumstances therefore imply that, in many cases, the articles of association of civil society do not cover the members' true intentions, since it contains the views of the court and the prosecution directly on a number of issues. As a result, the effective functioning of the legal person and the functioning of the registered entity are separated and, ultimately, Act V of 2013 on the Civil Code III. The main rules of his book giving rise to a derogation, the unfolding of the private automation of the parties, cannot gain ground. [[12.20]] It is therefore appropriate to change the approach of the registration body, the registration rules, in order to extend the registration procedure to elements that are relevant for the keeping of the public register and to keep in the competence of the members the issues that are covered by the Ptk. the members are subject to their private autonomy. Dear House, The present bill was presented to remedy the problems described above. One of the objectives of the proposal is to ensure that the role of the prosecutor is reduced in the assessment of applications for registration or registration of civil society organisations, associations and foundations. The civil registration procedure needs to be streamlined in order to make the process and time needed predictable and to ensure that the law guarantees registered entities that the registration of the organisation's decisions is not unduly delayed. In the area of judicial oversight in relation to the civil record, the aim is to bring legal oversight of civil society organisations into the jurisdiction of the Registry Court as a single non-court procedure. The proposal accelerates and amends registration and registration procedures at several points in line with the above objectives. In addition, the number of samples that can be used in the procedure, several sample files are organized. The new documents will also be used in the registration and registration procedure. The new model documents will be contained in a ministerial decree. It is a very important element of the proposal that, in the case of associations and sports associations, the court can only examine the existence of the most necessary legal conditions in the future, because of minor errors, there can no longer be a court deficit. In the future, the court will have to examine first of all whether the data on the application for registration submitted and the annexes to the application comply with the legal criteria of the association, the sports association and the data to be registered with those organisations comply with the legal requirements. For example, it is of course necessary to examine whether the executive officer is not a prohibited person. It is also intended to rationalise and speed up the procedure by introducing registration under the power of law. Under the Civil Registration Act, if the time limit for ruling on the court is exceeded, the determining judge or secretary shall merely inform the President of the court of the reasons for the omission. However, in the light of the interests of the applicant organisations, it is also appropriate to gradually introduce the institution of registration in company law, which is already known under the law. According to this, if the court fails to comply with the time limit applicable to it in the simplified, i.e. so-called pattern procedure, and within a further 30 days no judicial action is taken in the examination of the application, the registration shall be made by law with the data contained in the application. It is an important change that, as in the case of the company procedure, the proposal does not provide for the right of appeal against the registration and registration of the association, the foundation and the sports association, as well as against the order for public registration. In practice, this means that the first instance decision granting the application will be immediately final. The above orders or the documents on which they are based may be brought into law, as in the case of the company proceedings, but the prosecutor and the person to whom the order contains a provision may be sued against the organisation for repealing the order. In the case, there can only be reference to a breach of law which the court should have observed in the registration procedure. An appeal against a decision rejecting or partially rejecting an application for registration or registration of a change shall continue to take place. By amending the Civil Registration Act, the applicant may not extend the scope of the data concerned by the change during the change registration procedure, i.e. it may not supplement its application with a new change of data during the procedure. However, only once can the court issue a request for a deficiency order. In the deficiency order, the court shall indicate all errors in the application. On the basis of the amendment, the process of assessing the application for a change is becoming more transparent, because the application cannot be constantly supplemented, or the court will not issue a request for correction again and again. Further changes decided after the submission of the application will have to be notified to the court in a new application. The proposal clearly states, on the basis of the practical experience of the change registration procedures, that the membership register should not be attached to the application for a change registration and also makes it clear that only the court will examine the documents in the context of the change registration request. This will prevent the court from re-assessing the whole association's statutes in every change registration, which currently leads to non-predictable deficiencies by the association or the sports association. The proposal rethinks the role of the prosecutor in the functioning of civil society organisations established on the basis of private law, and on this basis the starting point of principle is that action by the prosecutor should only be ensured when civil society organisations are in breach of the public interest. The judicial registration and the judicial supervisory authority of the court provide sufficient guarantees for organisations based on private-law funds and therefore the parallel control function of the prosecutor is not necessary. The proposal therefore removes the legal status of civil society organisations such as associations and foundations. In the separate laws, such as the Law on Sport, the Law on the Functioning and Management of the Parties, the right of judicial control granted to the prosecutor remains. It is important to point out that, in order to implement the new legislation, the 2011 CLXIII on the Public Prosecutor's Office. There is no need to amend the law. The termination of the right of prosecutor's control in the registration and registration procedures has the consequence that the prosecutor no longer participates in these procedures in the case of civil society organisations, that the documents do not need to be served and that he does not have an independent right to appeal. As I mentioned earlier, however, the prosecutor has the right to bring an action against an order for registration, provided that his action is based on the unlawfulness, error of the information entered in the civil record, or that he is otherwise likely to harm the public interest. Today, the rule of law of civil society organisations is based on two pillars: the legal authority of the prosecutor's office and the judicial jurisdiction of the court. The court is not able to actively carry out its judicial supervision today, because it is a prerequisite for the prosecution to sue the organisation for failure of the prosecutor's measure following the prosecution's legality check. Therefore, judicial legality supervision is regulated today as a legal procedure, even though the intended legal objective, namely the restoration of legitimate operation, can be achieved by a non-court procedure falling within the jurisdiction of the Registry Court. It was therefore appropriate to complete the restructuring of this area and to complete the process of judicial review. It is important to point out that the right of the prosecutor to initiate judicial supervision proceedings is always maintained, in the case of which the legal status of the public prosecutor remains subject to separate laws. There are so many changes that, after a failed legality check, the prosecutor is not allowed to sue, but to prosecute the court for legal oversight. With regard to the legality supervision procedure, it is worth mentioning that the rules on the deposit and publication of civil society organisations' accounts under the Accounting Act had to be amended by abolishing the right of judicial review of civil society organisations. The prosecutor's right of general control is terminated, so the court holding the organisation had to be provided with an instrument in the event of a lack of deposit and disclosure. In these cases, the court may fine the organisation, not a judicial supervision procedure. In addition to the registration and registration procedures, there are several procedures in the existing Civil Registration Act and the Civil Code which are designed to eliminate irregularities or irregularities associated with the operation of civil society organisations, to initiate the procedure leading to the termination of civil society organisations and which cannot be conducted without the active involvement of the prosecutor. These procedures are currently suing in an unnecessary manner. The proposal transforms the legal proceedings establishing the termination of the Foundation and the association into non-court proceedings and allows it to be initiated not only by the prosecutor but also by the organisation itself, as well as by other legal stakeholders or members of the association. The proposal will allow for a procedure for the appointment of a Board member of the Foundation to be opened in the future to persons with legal interests in addition to the prosecutor. As I pointed out in the introduction, the amendment of the procedural rules can achieve its purpose if the substantive rules are also clear. [[12.30]] The proposal is therefore made by the Ptk. It also amends its association rules. The Ptk. The provisions aimed at amending the rules governing the association aim to clarify which of the rules is kogens or which is dispositive. Another important objective of the Ptk. amendment is to make the formation of associations simpler. At present, there are a number of issues that need to be regulated in the statutes, which are difficult to understand and define for members who are not legally involved. Such a question is, for example, the detailed rules for the conduct of the general meeting, the election of the officials of the general meeting. A significant part of the Court's deficiencies are also aimed at improving and amending these provisions of the Statutes. The solution to the proposal is that the Ptk. address all relevant issues that are sufficient for the functioning of a small and non-specific association. When such an association is established, it will be sufficient to include the most basic elements in the statutes, such as the name of the organisation, its head office and its first senior officials, to register in court. The rest of the content will not be required in the statutes, because it will be included in the Ptk. It will contain it. The Ptk. The absence of an amendment would be in danger that the courts would continue to be obliged to issue long-term orders to remedy the deficiencies. Because if it's the Ptk. it would not be amended, the association's statutes should continue to settle its internal organisational and operational rules in the same way as the Ptk. will still not offer a model rule. However, in the absence of sufficient legal and practical knowledge, associations are unable to do so. However, the statutory model rule is capable of replacing the specific rule of law, because it does not need to be settled in the statutes, repeating the questions that the Ptk. It's regulated. The statutes only have to be provided if the association wishes to derogate from the Ptk. Its rules. I would like to briefly point out that the proposal amends the 2013 CLXXVII on transitional and empowering provisions relating to the entry into force of Act V of 2013 on the Civil Code. Law, too. The amendment aims to put an end to the transition process of associations and foundations to Ptk. The proposal combines the amendment of the first instrument of incorporation after 1 January 2017 with the amendment of the instrument of incorporation by the Act of Accession. In addition, the deadline currently set by the Act will cease to apply to its provisions, i.e. 15 March 2017. Finally, it should be mentioned that the proposal introduces a new type of registration procedure in the company procedure. LXXVII of 2016 amending Act V of 2013 on the Civil Code Act No. 3 § 3 of the Act amended by the Act of Accession of the Republic of Poland. 218. Paragraph 2 of Article 2 of the Act. The transformation of a private limited company into a public limited liability company is a simultaneous change in the organisational and financial and capital markets of the legal person, but there was no full consistency between the laws concerned. As a matter of private law, the Ptk. the amendment indicates in a normative way that the shares of a private limited company may be placed on the public market if it is necessary to change the form of the company's operation. The public call for admission to the stock market still has to be made by the private limited company. The proposal settles the procedural part of this substantive rule. Private public limited liability companies are a long, complex process, where the importance of financial and capital market processes is much greater than the process phase. In practice, however, the company procedure is the final element, which may, however, have an impact on capital market conditions which have already been completed. In order to eliminate this uncertainty, the proposal ensures that the company changes its form of operation. submit its new statutes to the Court of Justice in advance for legal examination. If the court finds the documents in order, it will enter the data of the public limited liability company in the register, but it does not provide for their change date or scope, i.e. they will remain pending. The company has a year to secure the listing of its shares. Upon presentation of the stock exchange certificates, the company court shall ensure the finalization of the previously registered data with a very short deadline of 3 working days. The amendment of the Civil Registration Act and related laws is a uniform system. Together, the provisions of the proposal involve making civil registration procedures more transparent and predictable. The order of the requests, the one-off deficiency, the expanding sample files, the cleaning of the substantive rules, the removal of the prosecutor from the proceedings and the immediate legal force are all intended to enable associations and civil society organisations established under the right of association to deal more smoothly with their cases in connection with their judicial records. For this reason, I recommend the bill to the attention of my fellow Members, asking for their support. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-10-52	Thank you. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Imre Vas, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-11-10-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The Prime Minister and we, members of the Fidesz Group, have often explained that we regard the family as the basic unit of Hungarian society. A strong family gives you safety, a background, help in trouble, share in joy. A strong nation without strong families is unthinkable. At the same time, there is less talk about the power of civil organizations, communities, local patriotism, the identity-forming role of small communities. In Western Europe, there are great traditions of such an organization. Just think of the English clubs, or I could mention Germany, where there is no village where the locals don't organize a bowling club or a town-building circle. The importance of small communities and groupings is indisputable, it combines the people living in the settlement or those with the same interests. It can help the fallen to make their situation better in some way. Civic Hungary is also unthinkable without diverse and large numbers of civil organizations. The constant increase in the number of 1 percent offers shows that citizens are open to willing associations and foundations. Our Fundamental Law VIII. Article 2 (2) of the Treaty states:, Everyone has the right to set up organisations and has the right to join organisations. As a representative of the Parliament, I feel it is my duty to ensure that this fundamental right can be exercised as easily and smoothly as possible. As a member of the Judicial Committee, I was able to learn from the annual accounts of the National Court Office that those who give their heads up to form an association really have to suffer from the procedure and its time-consumingness. This situation, in my view, is untenable, as has been said. That is why the T/12722 ahead. The main objective of the bill is to ensure that the registration and registration procedure is conducted within a reasonable time in the future and within a legal framework that improves efficiency, and to simplify public control over the functioning of civil society organisations. In the case of the association, it is intended to speed up and rationalise the registration and registration procedures so that the court examines only the most necessary legal conditions in the course of the registration. Thus, the mandatory elements of the instrument of incorporation, the fulfilment of the statutory conditions necessary for registration of the association, and the provisions of the instrument of incorporation which, in the event of a defect, the court should, after registration, initiate a judicial procedure for judicial supervision. There is no need for the Registry to examine the documents, including formal and less relevant legal matters, which do not constitute an obstacle to the establishment and registration of the association. It is intended to further rationalise and speed up the procedure by introducing registration by virtue of the law and excluding the re-absorption. The 2011 CLXXXI on court records and related procedural rules of civil society organisations. Law 32 In the event that the court has exceeded the time limit for the decision, the Judge-Rapporteur shall merely inform the President of the court of the reasons for the failure. [[12.40]] In view of the fact that the court has a significantly longer period of time to assess the application than in the company proceedings, it is appropriate, in the light of the interests of the applicant, to gradually introduce the institution of registration under the law. If the court fails to comply with the time limit for the simplified procedure and no court action is taken within a further 30 days, the data contained in the application shall be entered by law. I think it is very good that, at the same time as the amendment of the law, model documents are set out in a separate ministerial regulation which is more significant than the current one. These samples may also be used in the registration and change registration process. This significantly facilitates the life of the founders of the association. An important and clarifying change to the Ptk. The provisions aimed at amending the provisions on associations aim to clarify the cogens and dispositive nature of the provisions on associations. The amendment aims to simplify the establishment of the association. At present, there are a number of issues that need to be regulated in the statutes that are difficult to understand, to formulate for members who are not legally involved, and that a large part of the legal gaps are also aimed at improving and amending these provisions of the Statutes. The proposal regulates these issues by law, offering a model for associations. If the operation of the association complies with the legal rules, i.e. it does not wish to deviate from them, it will be sufficient in the articles of association. The minimum content set out in paragraph 5 of the Third Paper shall be fixed. The amendment also leaves the obligation to include the issues to which the Ptk applies. does not provide a rule, so their mandatory repetition in the statutes becomes unnecessary. As far as state control is concerned, the rules in force regulate the legality supervision procedure as a legal procedure; a uniform, non-court procedure is established by the new law. In cases where the judicial control of the prosecution is terminated, the public interest protection task of the prosecutor is realized in the initiation of the judicial supervision procedure. With regard to such organisations, a prosecutor may initiate judicial supervision proceedings where he or she is based on a breach of the public interest and considers that there is a likelihood of damage to the public interest. In cases where judicial control by the prosecutor continues under separate laws, so many changes occur that if the measure taken in the course of the prosecutor's control does not result in a result, the prosecutor may not bring a lawsuit, but a judicial supervisory non-court proceedings in the Registry court. In such cases, there is no need to indicate and suggest an infringement of the public interest in order to initiate judicial supervision proceedings. In any case, therefore, the right of the prosecutor to initiate judicial supervision proceedings remains. Bad news for Jobbik and the organisations close to them is that the prosecutor's right to bring an action for disbanding the association remains. [[Defiance from Jobbik's ranks. Dr. Gábor Staudt: Who wrote this, Imre?]] if the operation or activity of the association is contrary to the law, i.e. the operation or activity of the association to obtain power violently [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Who is your speechwriter, Imre? István Szávay: You're laughing at this too, Imre!]] pursues the exercise or exclusive possession, carries out a criminal offence or a request to commit a criminal offence, violates the rights and freedoms of others if their activities are not in accordance with the Fundamental Law if their activities are prohibited by law [[There's a grumble from Jobbik's ranks. Dr. Gábor Staudt: Who is your speechwriter?]] , is formed as an armed organisation or acts by law solely for the performance of a public task which can be carried out by a public body under its own authority. I believe that we can indeed achieve the desired goal with what is set out in the proposed legislation. In the future, associations, foundations can be set up more quickly, more easily, to register changes or even to eliminate associations. The state will only engage in civil society organisations at the time and to the extent necessary and sufficient to eliminate abuses. I hope that, in the future, even more people will be linked to civilian life for the benefit of the public, in proportion to the reduction in administrative burdens. Please support the adoption of the bill. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-10-54	Thank you. I now give the floor to Lajos Korózs, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2016-11-10-55	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make some comments to the bill tabled. Indeed, the amendments contained in the proposal appear to be suitable for speeding up the currently scandalously prolonged registration procedures. Based on the experience of the operation of court-martials, the definition of the judicial oversight of civil society organisations in the form of a single court procedure and, at the same time, the abolition of the general powers of judicial control of legality seems to be a reasonable legislative step. The possibility of imposing fines of between HUF 10 000 and HUF 900 000 is far too broad in my opinion, and the proposal does not provide an adequate basis. There is no system of criteria that would guide the court to decide between these broad limits on the extent to which it should impose a fine in the event of an infringement. Two days of default can be 17 thousand forints and 20 days of 170,000 forints; if you miss the announcement of an iks change, 30 thousand if you are in ipsylon, 300 forints. Therefore, the rules on fines in the proposal should be considered as arbitrary in this form. Another problem is that the proposal is not even consistent with regard to the definition of the person who bears the fine. In the event of failure to submit an application for a change in the deadline, the fine shall be imposed on the organisation and, in the case of a foundation, on the founder, which shall be set out in Article 17. §, then the 37th. Paragraph 2 of Section 2 deals with it, while in the judicial supervision procedure the fine shall be imposed on the representatives of the organisation, and this shall be Article 27. Paragraph 71 (g) (2). Hundreds of thousands of HUF fine against representatives of a civil society organisation, I think, seems to be too large a sum, but it can be a disproportionate burden even for civil society organisations with typically small assets. Dear House, It is also not eligible for the provision that, in future, a supervisory commissioner may be appointed temporarily by the court to lead civil society organisations for a maximum of 90 days. Civil society organisations are not primarily set up for economic activity. The safety of economic traffic does not require the stability of the organisation to be maintained at all costs. It is also doubtful how the supervisory authority appointed by the court, acting as a guardian of the association, agrees with the principle of the autonomous functioning of the associations, the establishment and operation of the associations and their volunteering. From the point of view of traffic safety and transparency, it seems reasonable to adopt new rules on the change of the form of operation of private limited limited-liability companies. In this respect, however, it is a criticism that the financial basis for all of this is LXXVII 2016 published in June 2016. It was created by a law amendment of Ptk. According to this, as from 1 July 2016, the rule that shares of a private limited-liability company, with the exception of the placing on the market related to changes in the form of operations of the public limited-liability company, should not be placed on the market publicly. [[12.50]] The application of this provision would obviously have required the rules contained in the first three paragraphs of the proposal as from 1 July. Dear House, It is to be welcomed that the government has finally recognised that the current delay in the registration procedures of civil society organisations which render normal operation impossible and detrimental to legal certainty is untenable. The intention to speed up and rationalise procedures is therefore explicitly supported. However, it should be noted that the proposed legislation also contains a number of provisions opening the way for arbitrary application of law, in breach of legal certainty and the autonomy of the association. In its current form, the introduction of a fine of up to HUF 900 thousand for representatives of associations, and the introduction of legislation allowing the Commissioner to be seconded, are not considered to be compatible with the principle of the establishment and operation of associations and their volunteering. Therefore, the bill, in its present form, cannot be supported for us. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-11-10-56	Thank you. I now give the floor to György Rubovszky, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2016-11-10-57	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, The bill is supported by the Christian Democrats, but we would like to state that we do not consider it sufficient. We have a basis for comparison. It's gonna be weird, but I'm forced to take the example from the Justice Committee's practice. The Judicial Committee discussed the bill on the establishment of the Habsburg Foundation and the registration of the court. This bill convinced me that the Ministry of Justice knows exactly the problems that are in court. In view of this, it should be said that a separate procedural rule has been established for the registration of the foundation. I agree with that to a hundred percent, and my problem is this: the most important part of this bill is that the prosecutor's office is now removed from the proceedings as a client. I agree with that, it's okay, it's limited to the prosecution's activities, just to avoid the fact that civil society organisations' registration procedures have been delayed due to the involvement of prosecutors. It's just that I personally know a foundation case that the Metropolitan Court hasn't been able to handle in four years. So under these circumstances, a little attention should be paid to the fact that this step that has now been taken is welcome, but I respectfully ask that it be not the end of the case, but the first step, and this should be continued, these acceleration measures. I'm glad there's no way to delay the procedure by filling it up again. The only thing that I would raise, and that makes me doubt, is that it's an entry by the power of the law. I would simply link this to the fact that if the court administrator's deadline was delayed, he'd report it to his boss, explain, exactly, the case is over. It's not a solution; respectfully, it's not a solution. We need to find something that will drive the courts to do their job right. What will be the result of registration at the power of the law, because the court has not dealt with it on time... and there is no penalty to the court? The result will be that - I apologize for the expression - there will be vegetables in the register of civil society organisations, which may not be our goal in this matter. So this is a very, very drastic step, but it has to be considered terribly to give it space, and in my opinion it is necessary to get to the point where the court must be forced to carry out its task as a constitutional and independent authority. In these circumstances, as a member of the Judicial Committee, I have been involved in the hearing of court leaders for many years, and I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that on the 15th of this month, the report on the 15th year will be heard. We will also talk about it there, and I hope that the court will be active in the area of speeding up these civil society organisations. I am pleased that the civil code simplifies the problem of associations. Here, there was a time when it appeared that there should have been a list of members with data and signatures, which, in terms of a political party, I believe, is almost impossible in terms of up-to-date status. It's not the same thing as an eight-member company.; we're talking about tens of thousands. [[Dr. Imre Vas intervenes.]] Dear Parliament, I would like to conclude my comment by saying that, in my opinion, the acceleration is absolutely justified, that the Ministry of Justice is perfectly familiar with the problems, the request is that we continue this as a first step. Of course, this step - as a first step - will be voted by the Christian Democrats. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-10-58	Thank you. I now give the floor to István Szávay, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, who will give his speech on the pulpitus.
u2016-11-10-59	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, In my speech as Chief Speaker, I would like to respond only to the civil sector part of the proposal, and my colleague Gábor Staudt will present Jobbik's position on the matter of company law in a separate speech. Dear Parliament, In recent years, we have dealt with civil society organisations within the walls of this House on a number of occasions. However, the draft legislation submitted was of individual and fidesz political interest. For example, last year's proposal by Szilárd Németh was about the individual revenge of the former Commissioner and the fidesz downfall of the Csepel Workers' Home Foundation. This year, we amended the civil law on the establishment of the already mentioned Habsburg Otto Public Foundation, just because you have admitted that the current civil framework in Hungary, in the Bermuda Triangle, is simply inoperable and unlivable. Therefore, the government has opened a way for itself not to burn up the memory of Ottó Habsburg with the plan of the future foundation, which, by the way, is a very good caretaker and can be created as a matter of urgency. On both occasions, as a well-indebted national party to the responsible civil sector that is preparing for the government, we have proposed that we do not absolve the inoperable system, but look at the regulation together with the involvement of stakeholders and create a better, more livable civil framework in Hungary. I am pleased that at least part of our regular criticisms have been heeded, and now there is a proposal on the table that covers several areas. It is positive, therefore, that the draft legislation before us, which we have experienced several times, is trying to find and solve a number of problems that have come to us and which have also been said within the walls of this House, is bad, but it is positive. However, we regret the fact that the government is still dealing only with details in this case, but unfortunately we still have to wait for a thorough and comprehensive review of the legislation affecting the sector; as well as for the Government to consult closely with the widest number of stakeholders before submitting a similar draft. Needless to say, it didn't happen in this case. [[13.00]] Ladies and gentlemen, Before detailing the amendment of the law, let us briefly review the problems faced today by an average NGO, not by friends, the Norwegian fund or, for example, with Soros grants, with more than HUF 10 million. Only the annual compulsory administration costs tens of thousands of HUF, which is priceless for many organizations; for example, the accountant's salary is Ptk, as amended this March. According to the Court of Auditors, by 15 March 2017, the legal preparations for the amendment of the founding documents, the bank costs and the rest. Not to mention that often a simple change registration takes months, more than half a year, as according to the current provisions, this also constitutes an amendment to the statutes and is scandalously slow to be processed and enforced by the courts. To cover this date of entry into force, more than once several months earlier. If non-profit NGOs wish to apply for or change banks in order to ensure their operations and programmes, the way in which the necessary certificates are issued, the deadline and the price are very varied. Interestingly, the extract printed from the same registration system, which looks the same in form, with the organization's data certified, costs 200 HUF at the Metropolitan Tribunal, while in Székesfehérvár it is free, and in Kecskemét and Eger it is 100 HUF. Of course, the amounts don't seem big, I just want to draw your attention to the amazing confusion and inconsistencies. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] It is also strange that the aforementioned courts also apply radically different practices for the release of publicly available data. In Székesfehérvár it is enough to present a power of attorney and nowhere to record the person who requested the data, while in Kecskemét the claimant must complete an edited form. On the other hand, the Metropolitan Court is only prepared to issue a certified certificate of the data which is otherwise available on the birosag.hu website, based on the authority of the legal representative. Although the data and extracts on birosag.hu come from the same system, at the moment birosag.hu can only be used as a public source in theory. For example, a transfer to a bank account law requires an extract certified by a particular court, to which you must go to the county seat. For example, there is an organization operating in Cegléd, not at the Szolnok Tribunal, much closer to it, but only at the Budapest Regional Court, even though the certificate is printed from the same system, which could be requested from a government window. This senseless attachment to bureaucratic standards is set out in Annex XXI to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. It is completely incomprehensible and unacceptable. Unfortunately, the amendment we are discussing does not answer these practical questions. It does not create a level playing field for civil society organisations, and this proposal should have included a number of other problems and a reasonable solution to this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, Let us continue to review the amendments to the Ptk. The civil code adopted in 2013, unlike the previous one, defines the clauses of the association's statutes almost as a model, but a number of details were still questionable and open, and this proposal contains largely eligible requirements. These make it easier for organisations to do their job, since they only have to use a sample, and thanks to simplified entries, they are also included in the pattern rule. We therefore welcome this. Speaking of simplified entries, although the proposal aims to facilitate the registration procedure, it does not respond to two problems which also often arise. One part is a legal issue. How is it possible that the model documents are rejected by some courts because they are not signed on all sides, but that is not a problem for other courts? In addition, the signature obligation is not indicated on the form. Our other problem is not of a legal nature, but of a material nature. The courts, as I have pointed out on several occasions, do not have the resources to handle these submissions. The legislation can therefore provide for a faster administrative pace, and we can also see examples of this in this proposal, including the calculation of the time limit from receipt of each electronic submission and its acknowledgement, i.e. from registration. But if there are not enough judges, court secretaries - and in most cases there is no one - to deal with these matters, then we are going to be like the Győr Tribunal, for example, where you can only ask for telephone information on decisions concerning civil society organisations on Tuesday and Thursday, because the judge is also assigned to another department. It is therefore clear that, in order to solve these problems, legislation alone is not enough if sufficient personnel are not available and an adequate IT background is regularly developed. Dear Parliament, Back to the concrete proposal, I think it is a fundamental problem that, like the socialists, the parties that are currently governing have, although from a different point of view, been stuck with a misconception of civil society, whatever they have said in this regard, by my fellow Member Imre Vas. According to this, the third page of the roundtable negotiations in the so-called change of regime was made up of party-state bogus civilians, and since then they have not trusted the strong state or, in many cases, voluntary social work associations, foundations, civil society organisations. Yet that would be the value of civil society initiatives and organisations. At the cost of their voluntary work, financial and temporal sacrifice, they take over tasks that the state or the municipalities should carry out, but they either have no will or have no means or no money. The civilians expect you, my honourable pro-government colleagues, honourable secretary of state, who define themselves as civil and national parties, to help, support and strengthen the civil sphere. That was the expectation for you in 2010. Instead, they are suppressing, gleichschalting the area, strangling people you don't like, and keeping the others on a rather short leash, including, as a civil, national government, not even giving half as much support to civil society organisations as compared to socialist governments. The activities of civilians can be supported by the state and the local authorities with various applications and funds, or by allowing taxpayers to decide whether to offer 1 percent of their taxes or corporate tax for such purposes. These can be complemented by various EU or non-EU resources. However, due to the fact that the size of domestic resources is insufficient according to the consensus of those in the civil sector, a significant proportion of Hungarian organisations depend on Soros' subsidies or even the Norwegian fund's money. Most of these organisations act in the interest of their own micro-communities for these resources, but while - and this is very important - there is, of course, a risk that they will be able to deliver themselves, their community and thus our country to those who provide these resources. However, it cannot be the government's response that we have seen several times in recent years that power uses violence against organisations that it does not like and tries to make it impossible, or at least embarrass, some people. In order to ensure the satisfactory functioning of the Hungarian civil sector, the government should provide four to five times the current NEA resources according to the assessment and calculation of our experts. We are now at the point that a large part of civil society organisations are crying back the National Civil Fund programme, even though it was not a model system, we know that. The other failure of the current governing parties is that they have made rules on the registration and registration of civil society organisations which they cannot hold accountable for in the courts, and for which this branch of power was neither organisationally, professionally, or ITly, nor has it been prepared to this day; this issue is not resolved by this bill either. However, this issue cannot be solved only by legal means, but can only be addressed through a thoughtful increase in resources and through the involvement of stakeholders. Dear House, At the same time, we see the proposal as a step that makes life easier for civil society organisations. The most important change is the transformation of the role of the prosecution, i.e. judicial control, although it will not be carried out by this organisation, but the proposal does not exactly mention who will be responsible for this at the end of the day. Failure to comply with time limits will result in fines. In this regard, we must express our concern. At the moment, thousands of non-functioning but still non-accounting organisations exist, which are constantly called upon by the Public Prosecutor's Office to replace them. What happens if this doesn't happen? The proposal in question rightly states that several change notification procedures cannot be ongoing at the same time. However, in this context, I believe that an exception should be made for three types of data, which are now also treated as an amendment to the statutes, and this is the notification of the headquarters and senior officials and the members of the Supervisory Board. In relation to these changes, where officials make a valid declaration as regards conflicts of interest and prohibition, the courts should not have any meaningful discretion. [[13.10]] In all three cases, a formal check is required. In the first, whether he had the right to authorise the use of the seat and in the second and third, whether the officials had completed the necessary formal declarations. However, it is also necessary to wait months for them to be registered, so a submission may already be in progress, so it is not possible to make those changes until then, for which it is proposed that organisations or their founders may be punishable. For this reason, it is proposed to supplement this point by avoiding the prohibition of the simultaneous change notification procedure for home use and personal issues. According to further provisions of the bill, if there is no timely notification of changes in the organisation, it can be fined. Question of course: how will an organization or founder be punished for 10 thousand HUF, or 900 thousand HUF, in other cases, especially if most organisations' annual budgets do not reach this amount. The situation is also strange because so far, the length of the change registration in the courts and not on the petitioners has passed, but now the government wants to punish them. Since it is also in the interest of the organisation to keep up-to-date, we find it pointless to put the sentence in perspective, and I propose that this point be deleted. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Overall, we therefore consider the changes made in the bill to be correct, which will have a positive impact on the functioning of civil society organisations and simplify their administrative burden. However, we do not consider the proposal sufficiently comprehensive, as it does not cover many areas. At the same time, we find it unacceptable that the government has not consulted on a substantial and sufficiently broad basis with representatives of the civil sector; it makes decisions about them, but without them. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary is a committed supporter of the independent, diverse civil sector, and we will take this area on board as a priority, and we will only make the legislation on the sphere by asking the opinion of a wide range of stakeholders. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-11-10-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members and inform you that we have reached the end of the speaker's speeches. We now have Mr Staudt Gábor's speech and all my fellow Members who would like to speak. Congressman Gábor Staudt has the floor.
u2016-11-10-61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to say very briefly, because my fellow Member Szávay has long explained why it is very important to amend the rules on the inclusion of civil society organisations. Technically, we could see that, but this is not the first time we've said this, and perhaps there was some kind of agreement in this regard that these changes are not working well, they are very slow, and many times I have to say they are unprofessional. Well, there was no agreement in this, nothing happened. Now, however, it seems that the moment has come when something has already been done. I can tell you myself, because I'm a member of several associations, so I've seen that a change entry should take months, not just months, but almost years. It was the case that the court itself made a mistake, or, pardon, in civil matters - the court also mentioned the court - made a mistake and issued the order to register for change by transferring everything but the name of the executive officer. His mother's name, his address, but not his name. So it was obvious that they were on the move and were half-signed, but the other half, which is the point, who is the executive official by name, wasn't. In addition, the old man could no longer represent him, since it was not his mother's name, his date of birth, or his address, obviously, as the new senior official. This also took months, more than six months in this case, if I remember correctly, to clear this small typo with the court. In the first round, it was thought that it was necessary to submit another application, and that this error should not be corrected, but the writing of the many letters was resolved. But I have to say, even in this case, it is not reassuring, because this gap, that it has been missed for months, has practically not been resolved without a gap. So as long as things like this can happen, civil society organisations are in a very difficult situation. In many cases, they may not be able to appeal, because they cannot take on a long trial, have no money for a lawyer, do not themselves have this knowledge to bring their case to a court; and we hope that the new Pp. they will be able to do so even if they have legal knowledge. So they are in a very difficult situation, and it is difficult to argue with the courts, it is difficult, to say, even to enforce the right will. So it is very good that these automatic rules will also be redesigned here, which, by the way, have already proved in the company procedure that they are operational in some circles, i.e. if the authority otherwise does not move or does not carry out its activities properly. So these are definitely forward-looking. We've been waiting for these for a long time. I must respond with one thought to the words of Imre Vas. Colleague, fire or fire your speechwriter. To bring here as a subject that Jobbik was not pleased to see the procedures speeding up, and the rules of prosecutorial law enforcement changing, that was an unattractive sub-belt comment, I have to say. We couldn't have gotten used to you making these political speeches on inappropriate topics. [[Dr. Vas Imre: Watch out!]] I have to say that we are pleased that if the rules are enforced by everyone, we are also happy if the prosecutor, if not justified, does not meddle in what he should not; but if there is a need to intervene, then do intervene. By the way, I would like to add that, along with the prosecution's compliance with the law, in many cases it is not always possible to solve this perfectly. But let's not get into this right now. Let us just say that these rules are basically something that we have been asking for a very long time to include in the civil law and in the procedural rules on this. I must also say that we have followed and will continue to comply with all legislation, and this remark has been tasteless. The bill, as my fellow Member István Szávay said, also contains a company law provision. I have to say that it is more technical that the rule - and I found it positive - lays down the rules of company law when the private limited company is transformed into a public company. These can be technical, but important in many ways. I would not go into this in detail because the circle concerned has given me legal protection. So a company that turns from Zrt. to Nyrt. has already had lawyers and capital. These rules are corrective rules, but I do not think it is important for this to be explained in detail, since those who need to know this will already know when they enter into force, because that is what their lawyers are dealing with, and this knowledge will be equipped with. Perhaps even one comment: I like the fact that if the one-year deadline is passed and the corresponding annexes are not submitted, the whole procedure and the data that have not yet been put into effect will be deleted. Thus, an addicted legal situation does not develop, but this happens automatically. These are always important because they do not depend on the attention of an administrator or the various authorities, but are automatically subject to the provisions of Article XXI. It can be set in the century, and these systems can do their job on their own. So the petitioners will be forced to do so in time. That is all I wanted to say, and I hope that the amendment that István Szávay mentioned can be accepted. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-11-10-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Vas Imre has applied for a repeated speech. Here you go.
u2016-11-10-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I say to my colleague Gábor Staudt that the bad news for you is that otherwise it is easier to register the association. [[István Szávay: We understand the first time!]] The bad news is that in some cases the prosecutor's right to bring an action remains. Here I have listed facts that have been raised in associations close to Jobbik in the last 6-7-8 years. That's what I was trying to say. Thank you very much. [[13.20]]
u2016-11-10-64	Thank you very much. Congressman Gábor Staudt asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2016-11-10-65	I do not want to go deeply into this, especially not with the reference given, the reference to the particular association, which, in my opinion, has complied with the rules, but after its dissolution has otherwise been final, we have accepted this despite the fact that we disagreed legally with it. Otherwise, an effective procedure against all associations, in compliance with the laws in force, I would like to underline this, my fellow Member Vas Imre, that we would expect the prosecution to enforce the laws in force. In many cases, this does not work, so sometimes it is not held up where it should be, and in other cases it also goes where it should not. However, a final court decision must be respected. Jobbik has done so, and will do so in the future, so I must say that we should return to the profession, my fellow Member. And it's also a good thing that you had this written to you then, because you also read this, this rejoinder. Thank you.
u2016-11-10-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] István Szávay, Member, spoke again.
u2016-11-10-67	Thank you very much. I just want to stress a few questions, because it is common to be typical, especially after the longer speeches, that our most important questions are missing and we do not get an answer to them. Allow me to appeal to Mr Secretary of State and ask him to address two questions in his closet. As I said, even though we consider this bill to be little or not sufficiently comprehensive, we can support it in principle, but we have two important amendments, or we will have them by the appropriate deadline. On these matters, I would ask you to express your position, Mr Secretary. One is the need to introduce this punishment. Do we really have to insist on this, what is the reason for this? The Secretary of State did not express this in sufficient detail in his presentation. And the other thing I mentioned was the ban on the duplication of certain change notifications, and what I suggested was that we take out the headquarters announcements and personal issues. We believe that what has been said in this proposal is right, and we also understand the ban on this parallelity, and this is also right in terms of filling gaps, but we see, after careful consideration and the opinion of many, that these two areas could be excluded from this obligation, because this could, where appropriate, cause unjustified disruption to civil society organisations. Do you see the possibility, Mr. Secretary? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-10-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. No one has made any further contributions, and the general debate is closed. I would ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, to answer the questions raised in the debate. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-10-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you, on the one hand, for your active involvement in the debate. My colleague, Mr Lajos Korózs, has also mentioned the issue of fines, like Mr Savay. If we read the text of the law carefully, it would appear that there is a certain obligation for civil society organisations, if there were no sanctions behind it, then the court would be completely unwieldy, but the wording itself says that it can be fined, so it can be considered by the court. You can also consider within what framework, the size of the organization, what its financial opportunities are. There are also national organisations with hundreds of millions of budgets, and I do not believe that a fine of HUF 5 thousand would be a significant deterrent to such omissions. I believe that the court can meet this task and that the possibility of redress is also open, because such decisions can be appealed against. Maybe that's a good guarantee. I cannot, of course, give an opinion on the non-submitted amendments, but the change announcements have that kind of order. So more can be submitted at the same time, if they differ in time, they represent different decisions. It is not possible to extend the amendment itself. Therefore, an application for an amendment submitted, a request for a change registration, cannot be supplemented subsequently, obviously. That is how it should be interpreted here, so I think there is a question of interpretation here too, and I do not think that there is a serious friction between us. Congressman Rubovszky, Mr President, had a suggestion that it was an entry in the power of the law. I would like to draw attention here to the fact that this can occur in the case of sample basic rules, in the case of sample entries, not in the other cases. So, in this sense, there is the legal guarantee that only the registration or change takes place on the basis of a set of rules. There have been a number of other issues that I think - after a little over-extending in the context of this amendment - that the EMMI is obviously more competent to support civil society organisations and always arises in the budgetary debates. I don't see the situation that gloomy. The organization of the courts, we know, is a two-thirds law. If the opposition parties were to see flexibility when negotiating certain legislative proposals, more questions could obviously be raised. But I can only remember the subject of the case-law where we had an approved text proposal, but I can also name it, and Jobbik was among the parties who wanted to link the amendment with other questions. It is therefore very difficult to move forward on these issues. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-10-70	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that it is possible to present the amendments by 16:00 today. We now have a general debate on the bill to amend certain health and health insurance laws until closure. Government referral T/12729. is available on our IT network. First, I give the floor to the rapporteur on the agenda, Mr Zoltán Gustáv Ónodi-Szűcs, State Secretary of the Ministry of Human Resources. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-10-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, I'm here with a salad law, and the last time I was here in the spring, I have the opportunity to speak to you about salad law twice a year. Let me take this opportunity - because at the time I was talking about health care in the face of wage improvement - to talk about this in a few words, because I rarely have the opportunity to speak to you. I think that during the summer we managed to reach a very important agreement with the advocacy and the chambers, because on 8 June we managed to reach an agreement on wage development. This means that since 1 November of this year, this has already started, and the workers will have a wage development process in four paces for three years, thanks to which, if you look at the first rate in 12, by the end of the cycle, the workers' wages will double or more. The same looks different with doctors, since the wages of specialists increased by 107 thousand forints on 1 November, and their wages will increase by another 100 thousand forints next November. I think this is the very important item, because if you remember it, then the object of the alarm was that we were just plotting the workers and that there was no resources in the Treasury or in the budget for this thing. But now you can see both the budget of 16 and the budget of 17 and you can see that both will be realised, because this year we will be able to spend more than HUF 21 billion on wage increases and wage development. The same figure is more than HUF 80 billion next year, so the two items exceed HUF 100 billion. I very much hope that this will create the kind of work peace that will be needed to ensure that any development, process that we want to start and finish in health care can take place in a peaceful background. I am here with a salad law, and obviously, like all salads, this means that a lot of legislation is being amended, and we now want to amend more than 11 pieces of legislation. I do not want to tell this House that I am beginning to list all the important elements of the legislation in the name of such a production report, that I do not want to deal with either the harmonisation changes or the technical aspects of EU law; I would just like to highlight a few things and leave to the Members in the debate what they want our discussion to be about. [[13.30]] I think it is very important for a good state to operate in Hungary, and I would list only those that reflect the fact that we do want to take care of Hungarian citizens and take care of their fate as a good state. I should therefore like to report to you that we would like to help families involved in early development by converting the travel burden for both patients and relatives. It is also about their help that, at the request of the Ombudsman, we want to provide a law on how to regulate the publication of finds in an institution. However, it is important that citizens meet the same process regardless of which institution they have entered. I think it is also important and in order to protect patients, that if a pharmaceutical company withdraws its product from the market, then the new incoming and quota-approved medicinal product will be able to receive immediate support for its aid application, thus the kind of gap that could have existed earlier - because otherwise, it has not been the case before - will be reduced to zero days. I also think that the good state will benefit from the sector-neutral financing of health promotion agencies, because now, regardless of whether the office is maintained by a hospital or by anyone else, it will face the same funding. I think that it also serves the good state, as we have often fought here in this Chamber in relation to the protection of non-smokers, so that the Minister can now also determine what official fees the authority will be able to collect to maintain a marketing licence. I stress that we want to strengthen some official functions, but we are not doing this to increase bureaucracy, but to justify the legality of some measures to protect citizens. This is also the reason why we want to strengthen the rights of the Chief Officer from an epidemiological point of view. In the same way, we would like to give OEP a few new driver's licenses, which should have worked in connection with the manipulation of medicinal products through pharmacy in recent times, as it was very difficult to take effective and timely action in these matters. So the opportunity for the OEP to explore these will accelerate. I think that it is also very important for the ENKK, which is leading us to see who has a registration permit in Hungary today, to ensure that if a person turns to the authority with false data, he does not have to accept his licence for the next year. Let's end up with two more cases that I think might be important. One is that in Hungary today almost every second graduate is a foreign national at universities. At present, in order for him to be able to work abroad despite having completed an official certificate in Hungary, he had to enter the Chamber earlier. I think that relaxing this will certainly reduce bureaucracy. In the same way, if a person had to apply for an official licence for an operating licence or registration, he would no longer have to attach a moral certificate, which is settled by authority. I've just received the right amendments, by the way, so I can't exactly reflect on them yet. I would like to say that the strengthening of the powers of the OGYÉI is for one reason only, and that there is a very important purpose after the patical liberalisation, I think that is also the purpose of Jobbik, not just the Fidesz fraction, and that is that we want to have the matters that we wanted to have in the strategic ownership structure, that is to say, that the employees own more than 51 percent of the pharmacy. If someone does not want to meet this kind of goal, this kind of expectation, we would therefore like to strengthen the powers of OGYÉI in this respect. I stress that there are very few of the 2,700 pharmacy in this circle, but I still want this to happen smoothly. The last group I'd like to talk about is the negotiation of a collective agreement, which is what I started with. We would like the negotiation that we have conducted to cover not only public institutions, but all institutions and organisations that carry out any services from the E-Fund that are financed by the E-Fund. By doing so, we would like to ensure that the vast majority and a significant part of the workers in the sector in Hungary receive the benefits. I stress that the draft legislation concerns a lot of legislation, and I would not like to read all 70 pages to you now, because this debate is not an issue, but I will obviously have the opportunity to discuss it during the debate, if there is a point in the matter that we need to discuss separately. That's all I wanted to say as an opener in my expo. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-11-10-72	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Ms Ágnes Molnár - State Secretary, here I am indicating that there is a lady in the Chamber. Here you go.
u2016-11-10-73	Thank you very much. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In connection with Mr Secretary of State's exposé, I am convinced that every time a major package of laws on health comes before Parliament, we should not only look at it alone, but also look at the whole health system to see where we are. We know that health systems everywhere in the world have many problems. Funding problems, the question of the effectiveness of the system, its increase, the problems of health workers - all of these are global problems, to which different health governments are trying to give different answers. I believe that one of the keys to improving the system is to be able to face these problems and to examine whether we have a conscious vision and, if so, from what sources and from what concept we want to implement them. Ladies and gentlemen, We can safely say that Hungary today has a government that does care about health, which could and can face the problems that are undoubtedly present, and more importantly, that it is doing so along the lines of a conscious and real concept. Allow me to say a few words about why I believe that the government's health policy has been characterised by awareness since 2010. Two strategic documents, along which we have been progressing in recent years, are still valid today. One of them is the Semmelweis plan and the other is the Sectoral Strategy for Healthy Hungary, which sets out the directions along which we have managed to deliver real results with concrete steps and measures in recent years. Without the need for completeness, I would like to mention some of these measures. After 2010, we were able to start strengthening the basic supply. Today, there is 44 percent more money for basic care, including GP and women's funding than in 2010. In this context, the growth is even greater: we spend more than one and a half times as much on GP funding as in 2010. During the health development programme launched across the country, 500 billion improvements were made in our hospitals and clinics. A multi-stage wage increase programme started in 2012 and the government also launched a system of residency grants. The government has successfully stabilised the direct supply of medicines to the general public from 2010. As a result, the economic situation of direct supply of medicinal products to the general public has improved. After 2010, we implemented one of Europe's most complex series of public health measures. The ban on smoking in public enclosed spaces was a major step towards reducing smoking, which is of major long-term importance for the reduction of cardiovascular death and extremely high mortality caused by lung cancer. With the introduction of a public health product tax, we already consume fewer foods that are harmful to health. Thanks to the public health product tax, the health sector received more than HUF 110 billion in revenue, and this created the basis for the health wage increase in 2012-13. [[13.40]] We were among the first in Europe to take action to reduce trans fatty acids that are harmful to health, and it is also an important and joyful result that infant mortality has decreased by 20 percent over the past two years. The start of the waiting list reduction programme, i.e. since 2012, the number of patients on the waiting list has decreased by less than half, while in 2012 70,000 patients had their names on these lists, and today there are about 33 thousand waiting and the programme is not over. If you look at the budget figures, the sector has a real surplus, compared to 2010 there will be 282 billion forints more money next year for healing-preventive care. If we add that next year there is a surplus of HUF 200 billion for wage increases and other tasks, or that there is a HUF 56 billion EU development in the sector, we can see that the favourable processes continue. From time to time, however, there is a need for technical changes in the supply system that can be implemented through a number of laws. That's what's happening right now. T/12729 on certain health and health insurance laws that we are discussing here. A total of ten amendments to the Act No 1 are also made. Let's take a look at these. The amendment of the Act on Health Administration and Administration gives the Chief Officer a license that allows him to impose uniform measures at national level in the event of an epidemic risk. This is a technically justified and very important amendment, which helps to maintain and strengthen our epidemiological security. In some respects, the complex development of electronic health services gives Hungarian health care a completely new foundation. By building the foundations of the eHealth system, the largest amount of health IT investment has been launched so far, one result being the elimination of uncertain documentation, which has been paper-based from one institution to another - and not in a uniform way - case descriptions, lab findings; these will move in the digital space in the future. We know from practice that this is of great importance in terms of effective patient care. A further result is that access to the new central IT system (ESZT) which will be launched in the near future will be ensured for specialised supply institutions. Of course, the highest data and cyber protection ensures effective communication within the health sector. The amendment to the Act on the Management and Protection of Health and Related Personal Data creates a background to clarify the register of identification and eligibility management of the ESTE, and it is later necessary to regulate its precise functioning by means of a ministerial decree. In addition to the technical amendment to the law on compulsory health insurance, it is very important to introduce provisions implementing uniform official controls, for example to detect false acquisitions of stocks, to enforce certain pharmacies' failures and related repayment obligations. There are several changes in the Health Act. People performing traditional Chinese medical activities, the names of persons and the authorised activities will become known to everyone in the future. In the future, the health care provider's policy must contain the rules for the publication of the findings, as Mr Secretary of State has said. And it becomes mandatory to perform a post-mortem examination of the donor and recipient involved in the tissue transplant, thus determining whether the donation played a role in the event. So far, this has been done in transplants, and now we're extending it to tissue transplants. It will be possible to declare a health crisis in one county by providing immediate information to the Minister for Health only. In addition, detailed rules for the financing of emergency and emergency care may be established. After the establishment of health development offices, they must be financed, as Mr Secretary of State has said. The regulation of this funding in the Regulation will be ensured on this basis in the future. The amendment of the law on the protection of non-smokers and the marketing and regulation of tobacco products continues to confirm that the fight for tobacco control in Hungary remains a public health and health policy priority, and everything must be assigned and regulated accordingly. An appropriate amendment to the Act on certain aspects of the pursuit of health activities ensures that the legal background of the sectoral collective agreement is resolved. It is important that more favourable entitlements can be extended to all employees with legal status. It is well known that there will be regular stakeholder discussions between the health government and representative health trade unions in order to jointly develop the opportunity for decent respect for health workers. A major success is the successful completion of a multi-stage, predictable wage negotiation during the summer. More than 97 thousand health workers receive a significant wage increase, the first phase of which was launched from 1 September 2016. The average wage of nurses will be 65 percent by 2019 and the salary of specialists and hospital pharmacists will increase by 207 thousand forints in two years. No one's gonna get less money. A new health worker pay table was also introduced for health professionals from 1 September 2016. As regards pharmaceutical policy, two laws will be amended. As with previous legislative amendments, new psychoactive substances, this time 13 new substances will be added to the so-called "A" of dangerous psychotropic substances subject to stricter treatment. In order to comply with the obligations to pay an annual maintenance fee for medicinal products after their marketing authorisation, a sanction would be imposed, i.e. the marketing of the medicinal product would be suspended until delivery; this would also be a measure to facilitate compliance with the rules. For pre-authorisation medicinal products, the manufacturer must provide the product free of charge to the patient throughout the course of treatment. If, during treatment, the authority allows the medicinal product to be placed on the market and can be ordered with the aid, then the legislation states that the manufacturer should only provide the medicinal product free of charge until admission. As of 1 January 2017, the former legislation on the majority ownership of pharmacists will enter into force, according to which, as of 1 January 2017, pharmacists will have to be majority owners in every pharmacy in Hungary. In this context, the current proposal strengthens OGYÉI's official control powers. These changes are all designed to strengthen the system of effective and safe direct supply of medicines to the general public. Ladies and gentlemen, This current package of laws concerns a number of areas of health, contains forward-looking technical changes, and I am accordingly confident that this will give us the opportunity to conduct a professional debate on the bill. The bill is supported by the Fidesz faction, and I would encourage my fellow Members to do so. Thank you for letting me tell you, and thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]] [[13.50]]
u2016-11-10-74	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr László Szakács. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-11-10-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We are in a strange situation, because, as Mr Secretary said, we should not be discussing the production report here today. I am pleased, by the way, that Mr Secretary of State says that there will be a debate, and I hope that he will respond to us, and not only when we can no longer say anything. On the other hand, all they had to do was listen to the laws one by one from the lead speaker of Fidesz. I don't know what's better when we're relativizing it, or when we're over-elevating what kind of forward-looking changes there are. Please, this is how it happens in this House every year, by the end of the year, they bring in a medical salad law, which they say is now the most prestigious, innovative, so fantastically good law package that will change health care immediately. Now, Mr. Secretary of State thought that less than the lead speaker of Fidesz, but this is the case mostly every year. Then these technical changes, which are certainly important and will make the work easier, and even what Mr Secretary of State pointed out is that they will now finally treat healthcare workers as one sector, and everyone who receives them from the E-cassette and can even conclude a collective agreement, so that a higher system of instruments, to say the least, will be available to them to protect workers. I believe that these can indeed be more forward-looking, but there is a question as to whether this will change anything about the care system or the care system. I am pleased that Mr. Secretary of State knows that there has never been a shortage of supplies. There was, I asked you, you answered me, only then you weren't a secretary of state, and you were recognized. I'm glad there won't be a shortage of vaccines this time. They saw it, it took a year, they changed the law, and I'm glad that if there's a higher employment protection for everyone who gets paid from the E-cass. And you're gonna bring in a gun again that you're gonna know what you're gonna use for. That's what you described as what the authority could charge to maintain the marketing license so that the minister could decide. The thing is, Mr. Secretary, nobody really trusts you anymore. So what you're writing here, what you're going to do on this basis, and that you're going to use it for what you're thinking, I think that at this moment there's nothing wrong with it, but you guys do that by bringing one of these things in nicely, under the grass, and then extending it to everything that you've never been going on, completely twisting it, and then you're going to spend the money you've collected on something completely different. That's how it's always been. That's what they think of you now. It is a pity to expect us to explain to anyone that you should be trusted, because so far, what was a special tax has always been driven out of what was a temporary tax, it has been ruled out that there has never been a need to sue you at the European Court of Justice. I think that's what the salad law is all about. So these technical amendments are what we pointed out earlier that are problems. Every year, such a technical modification package comes here. There are also some essential elements of this which can be agreed with, but I think that is not what you have promised, and that is not what you have to do. I'll tell you what they promised. They promised me a chancellor system. For example, we're glad it's not in there. It was in Mr. Secretary of State's programme that economists would decide which surgery would be necessary and which would not be. We were talking about basic care, about strengthening it, about Budapest's super-hospital, about the separation of health care, minimum conditions, they were part of the program that we have not seen since, and we do not see that there is a fierce struggle within the government - even though there is a fierce struggle, just not to have health care in its rightful place in a separate ministry. In today's Hungarian government, honourable Member, it is not possible to say that health care is a priority; in today's government, propaganda has a ministry, and healthcare does not. It is crumpled into a large organization, where they are struggling to see if we will now be able to include full inpatient care under universities and under university hospitals and whether it is possible to save their funding. It's a fight like this. There is no struggle to be an independent ministry led by a politician who can lead a proper professional apparatus, and then an institution system with a huge budget, although I believe that one of the most important services should not be marginally managed. I'm sure it's very, very important. That's what we should be dealing with. This is why we should be fighting each other in the government, and not in order to transfer it to education and under universities, whether hospitals can be wrestled or not, and this will enable us to arm wrestle a very good one. You can smile, Mr. Secretary of State, but you know, this one's got people working and people feeding it to people who don't smile at it. I'm sure they'll hear the fanfares now, how much their salary has increased, and then when they open their wallets, they don't see that. When I talk to residents, I talk to young doctors, starters, they understand that they have a low salary as a career beginner, they only see that if they work very hard, disciplined and well for another ten years, their wages will increase to a maximum of double. That's why they're unmotivated, so they're underpaid, and they're already preparing for their western European and US competition, because they want to get out of here because you don't provide a career opportunity that he doesn't have to work 300 hours a month to pay his rent. You've raised these people's wages by taking away their scholarship, and you're not doing well with it. The nurses were barely affected, and the economic and technical staff were not affected by the wage increase at all. That is why we have said and that is why we are going to bring in a proposal here that their wages, the wages of the nurses and the wages of our economic and technical colleagues should be increased by 50 percent immediately. Immediately increase the fee for inpatient care by 30%, and let us accept it and commit Parliament itself to a half-percent increase in the budget for health care every year. We cannot and cannot be praised by a fanfare that sometimes reaches 26th and 25th in the 28 EU countries. Mr. Secretary of State, you can't be proud of that, you have to be ashamed of that. I think that if there is a good proposal - ours, I think it is good - then it must be accepted. Before you ask me where the source of this budget would come from, please take a look at how much money we spent on past budgets when we modified them. How much money has Parliament spent or the governing parties voted for? Only the last one was 450 billion forints. There wasn't a penny for health care. Not a penny, maybe not even on the road. It is not possible that we now draw attention every year to the fact that the Olympic Commission has a higher budget than the rescue service, and that in every case it can find deaf ears. It is not possible to find deaf ears that from young doctors to elderly paramedics, everyone earns so much money that they borrow from about 20 each, and we expect them to do their job accurately and accurately. I'm asking you to help me with this. I've heard both of you say the word "the concept." Which of these was the one that matched the concept? And what concept is that? I am very pleased that there are many kinds of thinking, especially in areas such as health care, but the government could take this as seriously as it could be, and it could be such a priority to have a concept - but there are many now. There is the concept of the Secretary of State, there is the concept that the speaker spoke of, and there is a reality, and in this reality, and I think that neither sick nor doctor is feeling well today. Today's lack of equal opportunities is characterized by the fact that it doesn't matter if someone is sick, who he is, who he can call on the phone, and it doesn't really matter where he lives. It is these three things that determine the fate of a person when he is sick; can he call a doctor's friend or a hospital manager's friend, have enough money to pay for his care, and can he get to where care is, if he is not where he is. I think it's the 21st. We have to think much more of it in the first century when it comes to making demands. We need to think that the doctor should have a good time and feel that he is paid. [[14.00]] Yes, let the nurse feel that she is paid, and she knows that if she works disciplined and normal for 5-10 years, she will pay 160,000 forints instead of, say, 360,000 forints. I'm sure there's a government member who spends more on an unplanned mall visit. These rates aren't good. The rates when we train them for a lot of money are not good, and then the first thought of everyone who got his medical degree is where he could take his first competition and leave this country. It is very difficult to expect underpaid, seduced, unmotivated people to provide accurate, accessible and secure health services. That is what you expect at the moment, and that such salad laws will make their lives better for them. I think it's very little. And one more thing: debt. You can't seem to do anything about that in a year. Now they can show it; sometimes they can't show it either. Last year, it was not possible to pay 110 billion forints out of 60 billion forints. This year, without any structural changes, this is a structural financing deficit, but without any structural changes, this is still happening, as it is worth HUF 90 billion. It wasn't that long ago that we asked for and summarized the debts of all the health institutions. The thing is, what you pumped into this system last year, which here was to be rejoiced and praised, it was nothing more than a loan at the end of the month, it was re-produced, it had to be paid again. [[Attila Gelencsér takes his place as notary.]] Mr. Secretary. I also highlighted the positives of the salad law, which is what we think it is. If we're going to draw a very serious balance from this thing in addition to the salad law, we need to see that there's a health care that's drowning in debt. You guys always tell me how fantastically well you're doing. No! It doesn't go well, which causes losses around HUF 3 and 5 billion a month, it doesn't go well, someone doesn't count well there. Our doctors are underpaid, there is no safe and accessible health care, there is one who can pay for it, there is enough people he can call, and not everyone has an equal chance. If we pull this off and the doctors don't feel good about it, the nurses don't feel good about it, and the patients don't feel good about it, then I think it's very hard to be proud of that. The concepts we read don't work around here at all. If a chancellor sits at the head of every medical institution, and an economist will really decide, not underestimating, of course, the medical abilities of economists - but will they decide whether or not one of these surgeries is needed? There's money, there's no money? Will building another big super hospital solve the situation in Budapest? Do you have the minimum conditions? Have you been able to recharge the primary supply? Do you have the new GPs? Is the doctor's emigration gone? Is the sister migration gone? Can we afford them? I think these would be the results that would be worth reporting, and these would be the efforts to drive towards, not to be happy that there are only 33,000 people waiting on the waiting list now to perform some kind of surgery on them. I think it's okay for us to move the level of expectations up. The most important thing is to move the level of wage levels as high as possible so that we can keep the professionals and not expect underpaid, underpaid people to do their job accurately, save our lives and take care of us. That is why we proposed that, in addition to consolidation, there should be an immediate 50 percent increase in wages for economic, technical workers, nurses, continue with the doctor's wage increase programme, and in any case we should increase by half a percent every year in GDP in terms of financing health care. It won't be any different if they don't put more money in it and start making changes. I think these are the most important issues that should be discussed. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-11-10-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr László György Lukács. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-11-10-77	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, At the moment, we have heard two kinds of positions. Congresswoman Molnár was one of the representatives of treasury optimism. By the way, I understand this situation, because perhaps there should be so much self-esteem in the government, so much pride in its own work, that it tries to show its own results as meaningful or helpful or well-sounding assistance in health care. On the other hand, we heard a treasury pessimism, in which case the head speaker of the MSZP. By the way, you're right about a lot of things. I think we're sitting on every side of the horseshoe in a position that can even agree with these statements, in part or in whole. But perhaps the right approach could be a treasury reality, because in fact, all of us here, with optimism and pessimism, lie to ourselves about what is the reality of the present health care. The current Hungarian health care system, which many XXI. They think I'm a hundredth, but in fact, I think I'm still in the 20th century. It belongs to the century, one of its major problems, and I borrow this opinion from someone else, perhaps he has borrowed this opinion from someone else that there has not yet been a change of regime in this area. We failed, my fellow Members, to kick off taboos, to eliminate taboos that we had carried from before 1990, to bring with us something that was trapped in socialism, not only in patients, but also in workers. I think that the best approach would be not with excessive optimism, but with not complete pessimism, but with a overlapping, all-encompassing consensus experiment on health, and perhaps with right- and left-wing agreement on which taboos would need to be knocked down in order to have in-depth professional debates afterwards. It is quite obvious that the main challenge of the past 26 years and the health of the last 26 years has been what an economist at a conference has very wittyly said that there are three main problems for this healthcare: first, underfunding, second, underfunded and third, underfunded. By the way, this is not only the opposition, but also the pawn of professionals. After all, not only does the opposition claim that we are spending little on health compared to the economic performance of our nation, but our comparison with the neighbouring countries, our comparison with the EU average, and even our comparison with the world class, if we look at the OECD averages. This shows only one thing: in Hungary over the last 26 years, perhaps precisely because the taboos have not been knocked over, knocked down, managed to bring about a change of regime in health care, no one dared to say that money has to be spent more on health care. It is well-known and technology, growing age, increasing age, increasing nursing time, more and more years in health care, all of which foresee that there is a pressure, a financing pressure, a pressure on every budget that needs to be allowed; otherwise, dysfunctions, crisis and crisis phenomena are emerging in the healthcare system. So I certainly thought that these could be outlined as a first thought, and although we are here in the debate on a bill for a health salad law, or detailed legislation, it is important to talk about such matters. After all, the Secretary of State himself said that we may be able to provide such a general outlook, or that opposition parties or parties of government may present some of their questions and suggestions. This is how I took the liberty of talking about the need for a change of regime, the need for a cross-party consensus that overlaps or covers everything - in English overlapping consensus, full consensus or many areas. I think that if we are responsible for thinking about health, and this is just about the one-off financing problems of workers, the funding problems of the institutions, our public health goals, because here, too, let's do a cesure: in Hungary, there are scandalously bad health indicators. Hungarian citizens, I do not know if they are in an extremely poor state of health, either because of health problems or because of health deficiencies, or because of ourselves, but also in relation to the neighbouring countries. There's a lot of action to be made in these. And if we do not discuss these issues, and if we do not look for an opportunity to step out of the political trenches, these taboos, which have been responsible for health care for 26 years or longer, I do not think that we will make any progress in the right direction of health care. [[14.10]] As far as the bill itself is concerned, I would like to highlight just a few points where life has shown that it is necessary to touch it, and it does make sense to think in a different or right direction, and now, of course, some of these previous ideas are supported by this bill. The first in connection with the Electronic Service Space, the ESZT. By the way, this is an electronic system, a interconnected database that allows - and I try to translate it clearly for all of us - all the data of patients treated in health care, be at any stage of care, be with a general physician, otherwise be inpatient establishments, or really receive other care, using modern techniques, connecting databases... - the possibility of providing them with an effective treatment, an effective care. I will not object to what is in the bill now, although there have been a lot of concerns about data protection about the problem with the extension and handling of the data that everyone in today's world treats sensitically, but the criticism of this is not about what data is involved, but about whether this ESZ system works or does not work. Where is this project at present? In order to build such a forward-looking interface and such an extremely useful interface, the necessary infrastructure, the government spent a huge amount of money. In a very serious tender order, a multinational communication company has received very serious money to make this system work, so that this system can be ready and implemented as soon as possible. At present, however, not only is there a media silence, but I believe that there is silence on every level around the world so that this creature, called the ESPT, will come to life at all. I therefore believe that the Secretary of State will be able to answer in any case where the ESP is at present, whether we can even keep the deadlines that the Government has set before you. And you have to say it calmly: Magyar Telekom Zrt. Are you in a position to hand over a powerful and functional system to health care? Because if not, consideration should be given to how to make it better and how to account for it. Life has also proven that there are a lot of problems in the field of artifacts [[To Dr. Agnes Molnár:]] And that is why I am looking at my Fidesz fellow Member, because he, as a medical director or institution director, has seen exactly how partial, how fragmented the practice is about how some institutions publish their findings. There were a lot of different ways. One thing was certain that this was extremely annoying to the patients and, in many cases, to the relatives of the patients, and I believe that whoever gives the institution the opportunity to manage its health during health care and thus gives it an insight into its private sphere, an influence, should also know the results of this. The Ombudsman may have rightly stated that a part of the right of people to know documents is a part of their right to health and a healthy environment. That is why it is necessary to regulate the publication of an artifact not only to be uniform, but also to be fair. In recent times, more and more places have been heard not only to be fair, but to be practiced to the detriment of patients and relatives. There were institutions that asked for more than a hundred forints to publish a card. You can imagine, if this affects 20 to 30 pages, what a burden that is. Often, they made it difficult to obtain copies of them at all. A recent case: in the previous year's report of the Ombudsman, my fellow Member Bangóné brought up the case of what happened at the hospital in Karcag, where relatives were constantly looking for him, looking for the whereabouts of the patient - otherwise the ill patient who was treated in the psychiatric hospital. For almost a year now, they have no idea where he is, where he went, whether he's gone. And it's not this outrageous, it's actually outrageous that the authorities don't know anything about it, but the outrageous thing is that the hospital refused to release any documents to them. I'm only telling you this because, by the way, I live in Karcagon myself, and I didn't get to know the institution from that side. This also shows that there is a major problem with the handling of these documents, so it is absolutely justified to have a regulation. I am also very brief about the fact that, in the procedure for compulsory psychiatric treatment, an earlier rule concerning the appeal was clarified, as there were conflicting or not completely clear provisions here, as well. In the course of the appeal, it was determined not only who was acting on the appeal but also that it was acting out of line, since the nature of the whole intervention and of the whole legal institution itself justifies the fact that they should act in any event out of line. As far as health development offices are concerned, it is also not a question of how the bill changes for health development offices, but of what will happen to them, what role we can give to health development offices, which are also very fragmented in the health care system, because there are places where they have not been created at all, and there are places where they have created quite a lot of them, but it is very difficult, it is not easy to determine what results they are working with. At the moment, however, their funding is not very high in terms of the budget, but if we took them a little more seriously, they would be able to perform more. But if we do not want to take them seriously, then we will have to decide what their fate will be, and what we will do with the knowledge gathered there and the programmes that have been accumulated there, which were previously run from EU funds. Indeed, our debate on the protection of non-smokers is very old, and perhaps we should not go so deeply into it. I believe that the government will continue to sit on this horse backwards, because the punishment of all kinds of devices, often called electronic, but in fact electric, is a completely flawed move, I think, of all kinds. Last time we presented a 200-page study to Secretary of State, Nándor Csepreghy, courtesy of my fellow Member, István Szávay, courtesy of the British Royal College of Physicians, which, by the way, proved with facts and, if you will, evidence that the health is more related to electric cigarettes, since the habit is used by these instruments, as the government always says that it should be prohibited because it gives rise to a habit: 1.5 percent of users who are used to smoking. Compared to this, it has been proven that everyone, so all the rest, uses it to quit and otherwise use it effectively. So the government is trying to do exactly the opposite with the protection of non-smokers and with our public health objectives, because it is treating this as an economic issue. I think that this market should be largely left alone and, by the way, watch how it works, but do not interfere with the market itself, because I believe that these studies, even Eurobarometer's study and statements, are consistent with the fact that it has much more to do with quitting than it has to do with getting used to. As far as the amendments tabled by Jobbik are concerned, and I will try to address this in 1 minute 40 seconds, and then, of course, I will continue to do so if there is any other question to be answered: Jobbik's concept in this regard was that the debate on ownership or acquisition of ownership may be moving in a correct way. The government's objective, however, is to keep ownership of public pharmacies in national interest and ownership interest, but the current provision, in my view, and I looked at this from a lawyer's point of view, may give too much powers and powers to OGYÉI. So I suggested that this part be deleted in its entirety, because perhaps it should not be in this salad law, or in other ways, by amending other laws, that the possibilities used here could be more refined. I mean, there are a lot of investigative and criminal prosecution powers that the authority is given, which, I think, is going a little bit over the limit that the government wanted to aim at with this measure. I think that this should be done much more gently, especially with public records available for controlling the shares. So, based on a business register or contracts previously requested, it is possible to decide where there might be a challenge, where the authority should intervene, and where it should not. I believe that the private sphere of farmers would be too much of an intervention for such an inspection. Thus, there was no other way than to introduce an amendment in this direction which now takes this out of it and leaves it to a later legislation to settle it. I believe that I will continue to come forward with questions and requests for the rest of the debate. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]] [[14.20]]
u2016-11-10-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] I would like to address Mr László György Lukács once again. Here you go.
u2016-11-10-79	Parliament's house rules made me relax, but I would definitely continue there; and believe me, I do not like to listen to my own voice, it is not so good to hear back, by the way, I am not satisfied with my own voice, but I note this in parentheses; it is neither subject nor part of this bill, and I hope it will never be part of it. In any case, going further on the issues: it is important - and it is worth making clear that I understand this correctly - which means an extension of collective agreements. As I understand it, this is the way the Secretary of State intends to resolve the peak differences in wage tension that led to it, and in the wage increase it showed that there were areas and there were workers who could not get a wage increase. If so, it is important to consider whether, for example, this is a good rule or whether it is the right rule. To be honest, I was faced with this fact here in the debate. Firstly, it seems to be good, of course, by looking at the organisations which, due to their representativeness, have, or do not have, the objective possibility of concluding these collective agreements at each workplace, for example, to conclude these collective agreements. So this would be the primary issue for health institutions - and then let us talk about all health care and all basic health sector care and specialised care - if there are organisations that can use this legislation in such a way that workers entering and belonging to the collective agreement will actually benefit from this wage increase. While we are already at the wage increase, I would also like to have an answer to a very important question, and I am sorry to turn the debate of the bill into such an immediate question hour here, but the possibility of thematicisation has been given to us by the Secretary of State himself, and he has thrown this high ball, which we are now ready to strike. So, about the wage increase: I still have the feeling that there are small areas - and my intuition may be good, because there is evidence of this - such as those working in primary care, or we do not even know if this is a basic supply or not basic care in this case; the problem of district child dentists or district child dentists. I think that the Secretary of State has faced this problem, if I remember correctly, perhaps 3-4 weeks ago at a dental Expo, when a lady approached you, and she said that there are in fact around 180-200 workers in Hungary who do child dentistry, dental work in the district, dentists or assistants of those who may otherwise have a very mixed relationship with work, so it is very difficult to determine the conditions under which they are working, but it is absolutely certain: they are not entirely subject to wage increases. It was their demand, and they want to send it to you and to you on every channel, and to you that they want to receive the wage increase, they want to benefit from it, so that the situation does not occur, if I remember correctly, such as Article XVI. in the district, they earn nearly 400 thousand forints from their dental staff two doors away, and they, who have a very important task, see child dentistry and child dentistry, but they earn 180 thousand from the same experience. I think that this is a problem that needs to be addressed. This problem may not be unknown to the Secretary of State. If you can answer that, thank you. The other big problem is what's going on with the minimum order. I know that the regulation, I know that it is not the task of lawmaking and it is not our job, but I also contacted Tamás Szentes about how the preparation of the minimum regulation is, because, if I remember correctly, Balatonfüred was the one who said - or perhaps Mr. State Secretary told me - that he had been commissioned to prepare it. Tamás Szentes, unlike you, was less willing to provide information, so I try to ask in this way how the minimum regulation finally stands. Is there any progress? When do we even get to know him? Because I understand that it is a pre-decision document, but it would be nice to see the draft at least, if not for me, at least for the profession to see it, or to attend some kind of professional consultation, because if I remember it well or I know it, then perhaps you have not yet participated. The other neurological point is that in recent times, almost everything is boiling, rioting around the rescue service. Here's the thing: I have to ask you something so uncomfortable, which may be the event of the last few days, perhaps even hours, that I know there was an ambulance service management application, which may have a result. This is what we would like to learn here in front of the Parliament's public opinion about the results and what is going on in the ambulance service, as there has been a lot of confusion about the house of the service, which is obviously not good for their performance. Every time a body has to deal with itself or its own problems, there is a risk that it will not perform its actual work but deal with its own organisational problems. So I would also like to ask the Secretary of State where we stand. Basically, that's about all I've prepared. There are perhaps a dozen other things written down that would be worth saying, but I think what I said at the beginning in general, and what has been said about the bill, give the Secretary of State ample opportunity to answer here if he can and wishes. We promise that we will act with restraint in the debate and will not abuse the patience of our fellow Members. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-10-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. Secretary of State Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs asked for the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-10-81	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, This is not a debate day, so let's be clear, because the Members had the opportunity to take me in for eight hours in this Chamber not so long ago, so I thought that this debate would be about the law, but I am trying to answer the questions, which is why, of course, I am here. However, I would like to ask that the questions should continue to be confined to the law, because this is not the place. With regard to the EEW, since the EEW is in the legislation, I would nevertheless respond. The implementations of the ESTE are complete, they're ready. In order for the pilots to leave, we needed the legal authority to operate. If this starts, if it finally comes into force, then there is still a ministerial regulation that should also be published, and I think that everyone should join us in the neighbourhood of the third to fourth quarter of next year in order to make this work. I am very confident that we will be able to meet the deadlines. I stress that eleven institutions will participate in the pilots, and I think we will have interesting results on that. I'll try to tell you that. Obviously, if the ESTE starts, I think that the system of finding will be much more formalized and much easier to manage, both for general practitioners and for patients. The next question was about the EFIs. Yes, with regard to the EFIs, I think we need to make a few decisions on how to make the EFIs, because you are right, it was not complete, it did not work in the entire territory of the country and it did not work with the same portfolio. We would like this to be extended in a single concept and, as a first step, to include all areas which are in some respects disadvantaged, since this was not even a very important aspect. Your third question is the protection of non-smokers. I'm not a lawyer, but my lawyer friends told me that unus carnals nullus is carnal, let me translate: a study is not a study. Remember, Congressman, let's say 20-30-50 years ago, how many studies have we seen that tell us how good cigarettes are. Let me ask you for patience in finding out, it will be 10-20-30 years before the profession can tell you the truth of this. There's a lot of studies on pro and versus. It's my job to protect everyone, and for me, the one-and-a-half percent of people who get addicted to it are a lot. It's a matter of emergency services. Unfortunately, this isn't part of the salad, but let me answer that. It goes its own way. It must be named by 11 December at the end of the application who will be the head of the rescue service. So that's all I wanted to say. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-10-82	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr László Szakács asked for the floor to speak again. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-10-83	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would just like to assure you that I do not think that we have misunderstood what we are asking you about, because you have also introduced the bill in such a way that you do not want to present a production meeting with 70 pages of material. He spoke about the development of wages, the negotiation with advocacy, the chamber, the three-year wage development program, how the wages of the workers are rising, and how you are not really encouraging the workers, and this year you will earn HUF 21 billion, and next year you will earn HUF 80 billion in wages. These are what we are asking for, which you have said, and what we have asked for in your programme, in my opinion, with a sense of reality, speaking of the present situation; it is true that it is pessimistic, because I feel that there is no reason for optimism. [[14.30]] He also said that he rarely had the opportunity to come to Parliament, so this is when we ask our questions. [[Lajos Korózs intervenes.]] In vain we ask questions in other genres of Parliament, in interpellation, in question, on immediate question, I think that we ourselves have asked the questions of Bence of Rétvári... [[Interjection: Your answers!]] I'm sorry, we could write your answers ourselves. [[Dr. László Varga: We know by heart.]] After a longer historical outlook, a good past eight years, and then probably anyone asking questions should be ashamed of themselves - that's about all the professionalism in this respect. We are therefore very pleased that, if the Secretary of State is here, and I ask you not to take this as an excuse for us, we would simply like to ask these questions. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: We will not destroy it!]] For what I asked for, one more thing inspired me to do so in connection with the non-smoking law. The problem is not that instead of 42,000 places, you have allocated 9,000 places to buy tobacco; a lot of people have lost their jobs. The problem is also the way in which he went through the public discourse, how he managed to distribute them, who could sell tobacco in the future, because it was an institutionalized, very, very close to the Mafia state, a subject that was very, very, very many, let us say, that he raised a question beyond civil rights. If I remember correctly, there was even a recording of it. So I still wouldn't be proud of that. I am glad that if there is long-term thinking in health care, let us not wait 10-20-30 years in this, let us think ahead. I think the impact assessment of this may have arrived by now, but I know that we are not going to decide on this today. Here I continue to maintain the opinion that it is good, of course, that if there is a marketing permit, it is good that if the Hungarian State receives additional income from this, and I think that everyone is happy that if there is a concept that everyone thought would be buried a little deeper, that there would be public health and that there might be supervisors and that should be financed from something; I think that everyone is happy about it. No one thinks it's gonna stay that way. You smuggle in somewhere, here under the ground again a secret weapon, which will later expand everywhere, increase its scale, and then sooner or later, if you continue to govern, it will become a stadium - usually the experience of the last six years - or government communication. Well, those two haven't cured anyone yet. So this is largely and entirely why it is not the belief in the institution, the belief in you or the lack of faith in you that makes this issue a question for us to keep on, I think we should pay attention and draw attention to. But since today's debate has become such an instant questioning hour, and that may not be a problem, I would ask you: we are going to submit our proposal to increase funding from HUF 180 thousand to HUF 234 thousand, increase the wages of nurses and economic and technical workers by 50 percent, continue to raise the wages of doctors, and spend half a percent more on GDP per year... [[Dr. László Varga: To health care!]] Or health care. Then can you support this, Mr. Secretary? And will you support this resolution proposal? [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Thank you so much for your attention.
u2016-11-10-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László György Lukács asked for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2016-11-10-85	I was inspired by the proposal of the Non-Smoker Protection Act [[Defiance.]] That a witness is not a witness - unus carnal, nullus carnal, rightly, of course, the more ominous statement in the health sense - but I must say that we have not provided only one piece of evidence, since the Eurobarometer, or the RCP research mentioned above, is 200 pages long, and I do not believe that the knowledge of the Royal College of Physicians is open to any criticism. It shows well, and I would like to say this, and there is probably an unmistakable trench between us on this issue, that I still believe that the State Secretariat has rather a fact-denial ostrich policy in this situation. And believe me, there's no one here on the side of any lobby, no one here has bought up the opposition from the unfortunate, otherwise I don't think it's in a very good state of e-cig business; I don't think they'd want to do that. They simply wanted their own little business, their own share, if at least they didn't make false arguments impossible. Let's just stand there and say that we need this area economically, and let's say, let's not wrap this up in a non-smokers protection law, but let's say - as in the boys on Paul Street, by the way - that: einstand, and then they will give it up, then they will either sue for it or not. So I really wanted to remove the Secretary of State from this unpleasant task. By the way, they did well to leave part of the Prime Minister's Office, because they still defend this problem in a different way. It was another issue that might be worth discussing, since it could be an alpha and an omega of all health care: hospital debt. Will there be any clarification, lump sum relief in hospital debt; if there is, when will there be? And that's why you have to do something in return? If we could hear a few words about this, it would be an honor. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-10-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Zoltán Gustáv Ónodi-Szűcs, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Dr. Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs on Gustáv's signal:]] Here you go.
u2016-11-10-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Then just to go over one or two items: I do not dispute that there are studies that point in this direction, but there is one that does not show this, so I suggested that we wait until this debate settles down and the truth comes out. I remain a conservative position on this matter, and your party is also a conservative party, and I hope that we can agree on this. I forgot one thing, and I'm sorry I didn't reflect on it, he asked if there was an organisation that could represent employees. As far as I know, every five years there is a review of who is representative of each sector, and I understand that there is one of these, and that is the EDDS. And I understand that next year we may have to re-examine whether this thing exists or not, but I'm not a lawyer, and then let's talk about it separately, and I'd be very happy to see what the story is. There's been a lot of talk here, and I'd like to put a few things in their place, which I don't think is a lie right now, but I can only think it's a misconception, and that's why they're in this room. First of all, I would like to say that your scholarship has not been hijacked by anyone, that is wrong; we have raised everyone's wages. Scholarships and wages are two different categories, so I don't think it's a bad thing if we have to deal with it here. In addition to that, we have to face again in this Chamber, which, by the way, has always appeared on debate day, and I think we should get off this horse, and we should really argue about what is, by the way, professional and forward, and that is a question of money. So if someone looks at the OECD figures, then the decline in GDP was not just now, but in 2009. We can be called to account for why we did not raise it back and at what speed it was to the previous levels, and this can be called into account, but the decline, I do not think, is to be counted on us, Congressman; once. Two: if you look at how the institutional system financed, it has been said - once before, but I repeat again: - in 2015 the institutional system received HUF 211 billion more than in 2009, this is an increase of almost 40 percent. So if you're saying this sucks, I don't know what happened in 2009. Let's keep going with the numbers, and I don't want to go to war on numbers, but unfortunately, that's what I'm better at, because I'm doing this as an engineer, not as a politician, but I'm trying to do it relatively well. Let's keep moving. With regard to wages: so if we are discussing the need to increase the E-Fund's expenditure within the budget by more than half a percentage, then I have to say that we are on the right track, because if you look at next year's figures, then only HUF 170 billion is included in the E-Fund, and there is also HUF 40 billion of own resources due to the Budapest programme. If you add it up, it's 210 billion forints. I would like to ask you that if you calculate the amount of Hungarian GDP, it is about HUF 34,000 billion, the half-percent is somewhere around 170. I don't want to go back to 170 from 210. And while we're at it, arithmetic doesn't add up again, because what you're asking for in a wage increase, it sounds really good, but it doesn't synchronize with half of GDP. So what I hope is that everyone in this country understands that the health government has raised a salary of 96,000 employees. The trial lasted for a very long time, it was extremely sweaty, but there is a work peace. [[14.40]] I would like to ask that this peace of work should not be destroyed in the light of such short political interests, because the Hungarian government will only spend over 100 billion on wages next year. Thank you very much for your attention and thank you for the floor. I apologise, but that is not what this debate was about, and I am sorry that this has come to this point, and I would like to ask that if there is any proposal, I would be very happy to continue to look forward to it when it comes to the law. I would like to ask you to take part in this active debate, and we will try to take everything in, and I would ask you to support all the amendments to the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-10-88	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. We now have a general debate on the bill to amend certain laws on the regulation of education until closure. The government referral is T/12731. Number 2 is available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr László Palkovics, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-10-89	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Welcome to T/12731 on the amendment of certain laws on the regulation of education. On the occasion of a general debate on bill No 1. Please allow me to explain in a few sentences the main content of the bill before the Honourable Parliament. The bill contains five amendments to the law. The first of these is the amendment of Act C of 2001 on the recognition of foreign diplomas and certificates. The Act on the recognition of foreign diplomas and certificates lays down provisions concerning the recognition and establishment of a certificate and diploma issued under the law of a foreign State as equivalent to a certificate and diploma which can be obtained in Hungary, the inclusion of part studies and the recognition of professional practice. The review of central offices and the background institutions of the Ministry in the form of budgetary bodies also affected the authorities designated for recognition of foreign certificates and diplomas. CIV 2016 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the review of central offices and the ratification of district and district offices and the delegation of tasks of certain budgetary bodies. In the light of the provisions of Act No. 1 of 1 January 2017 which will enter into force, it is necessary to settle at the legal level the right of appeal granted so far at the level of the Government Decree in Etv. In relation to the performance of the recognition authority's tasks, the review of expert procedures in recognition and naturalisation cases has also become timely: the proposal simplifies the current rules by allowing individual experts to be appointed instead of expert committees on the basis of the amended provisions. The next law is the amendment of the Higher Education Act. The operation, education and training of Hungarian higher education is the 2011 CCIV on national higher education. by law. The Nftv. the aim is to increase the quality of higher education within the framework laid down in Article X (3) of the Fundamental Law, to create the necessary conditions for obtaining competitive knowledge and to ensure the functioning of the institutional system. In December 2014, the government adopted the Higher Education Strategy, the Progress Change in Higher Education document, which sets out the tasks needed to develop performance-based Hungarian higher education. The Nftv. Amendment 3 contains rules to facilitate the continuation of processes in higher education and changes made necessary on the basis of experience in the application of law. The first of these is the transformation of the funding system for higher education. The aim of the higher education strategy is to transform the funding system into a stable, predictable system of tasks and performance funding based on recognised cost of training, which can be adapted to labour market requirements and current budgetary resources. With the current legislation, the above objective cannot be fully achieved, the preparation for the transition has begun. However, the amendment of the current funding system, which has been applied since 2011, and the renewal of the system of rules to support higher education, has become inevitable. The purpose of this bill is to ensure that the changed rules ensure uniform financing of the basic activity of higher education institutions, based on the cost recognised by the maintainer, starting from the 2017/2018 academic year. The specific financing needs will also be addressed in this support arrangement. State aid is intended to provide the resources necessary to carry out the basic activity of higher education institutions, thereby contributing to the functioning of higher education by providing support for the basic activity of the higher education institution. Certain specific higher education tasks, cultural and development grants and cross-border training in Hungarian, for the start and maintenance of a small number of courses, for the performance of the library tasks of higher education institutions, for the performance of professional college tasks, for the implementation of research and development tasks, for the exploitation of research results, for the operation of organisations for the placement of students, for the development, organisation and operation of student sports and sports facilities, and for the promotion of equal opportunities can be granted from now on. Aid for the performance of these specific tasks may be granted in particular on the basis of a specific agreement or by tender. Aid thus available or awarded shall be managed separately from support for the basic activity of higher education institutions in the higher education institution. The support of a public education institution maintained by a State-owned higher education institution should also be defined and planned separately in the budget of the higher education institution, which may be supported by additional support for specific tasks. In the case of a higher education institution, the system of support for the provision of basic activity is laid down by the Government in a separate regulation. The regulation had to take into account that the renewed funding scheme was set out in Annex 2017/2018. starting from the first half of the academic year, the amount of the Hungarian State scholarship shall not exceed the amount of the cost determined at the start of the course and the amount of the aid paid shall not be less than the amount of the aid previously paid under the training aid. There are several amendments concerning the transformation of the higher education institution network. I would like to point out that, from 1 February 2017, the draft law lists the Hungarian University of Dance Arts as one of the state's higher education institutions and defines the university's operation as an art higher education institution on the base of the Hungarian Academy of Dance Arts and Nftv. provisions on the consistency of the general rules of the university. It also introduces a proposal to transfer the seat of the Kodolányi János College from Székesfehérvár to Orosháza. Some clarification changes on institutional governance. The experience of the consistorial operation justifies the setting by law of additional detailed rules aimed at establishing the members' right to information. The right of access and information must be ensured in such a way that it is adapted to the rules of operation of the consortium, so it is appropriate to lay down the procedural time limit. There are also a number of procedural amendments to the operation of higher education institutions. The organisational transformation of each higher education institution, in accordance with the tasks of the institutional system, must take place in such a way that the higher education information system can continuously monitor not only the organisational eligibility data set out in the operating licence, but also the change in individual applicants, students and teachers' data. This is of particular importance when examining the fulfilment and fulfilment of the conditions of the Hungarian state scholarship. It also requires realistic requirements to take into account the six-month study schedule of students, so that the six-month period for organizational changes is fixed, either on 1 February or on 1 August. The 2004 CXL on the rules of administrative procedure and service In the light of the provision of law which will enter into force from 1 January 2017, it is necessary to settle at the legal level the right of appeal so far granted at the level of the Government Decree against the first instance decisions taken by the Education Office. The registration of student homes and the operating authorisation procedure may also be conducted by the Education Office. The Nftv. under the authority of the Government, the minimum conditions for the establishment and operation of the student home are laid down in a decree, for which the Nftv proposed to monitor and deadline. 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 mg/ 100 In connection with the introduction of doctoral training on the education system in the context of the changed system of doctoral training in 2016/2017. It took place from the first semester of the academic year. According to the bill, a new type of doctoral training will be clarified by the legal act of the legal partners, instead of applying for a complex exam and accepting it, the student relationship will be created by the completion of the complex exam. [[14.50]] In the case of doctoral training, it is appropriate to establish less hours than the minimum number of hours for basic and master's courses. Here we took into account the specific features of the training. The sections of Nftv. governing the student's period of support determine that a person can study higher education in Hungarian state or full scholarship training for 12, in special cases, for 14 semesters. The bill also provides for a longer period of support for the student in view of disability by four semesters. These have been the amendments to higher education so far. In the law, we have several proposals proposing amendments to the law in relation to the public education sector. These aim to ensure a better functioning to the satisfaction of all actors in the public education system and to respond to some practical experiences in order to unify and simplify the application of the law. There are basically two reasons why laws should be amended. One is related to the establishment of district centres, and the other is the need for text-pointing based on practical experience and feedback from law enforcement, which aims to replace legislative provisions and to ensure coherence with other legislative changes that have occurred in the meantime. In order to ensure that the transformation and division of the Klebelsberg Centre for Institutional Maintenance to 58 district centres, as well as the associated maintenance change for the relevant public education institutions, as well as the removal of the tasks associated with the termination of the municipal government's operational tasks, the taking-over of the tasks, the persons performing the tasks and the assets, should be carried out safely, it is appropriate to establish the district centres as central budgetary bodies before 1 January 2017 and 30 November 2016. This relates to the 2011 CXCIX on public service officials. Act LXXX of 2016 on the regulation of education and the amendment of certain related laws. In addition, the Commission considers that, in the light of the above, it is necessary to advance the entry into force of the provision on the obligation of employees of district centres to be subject to the Public Service Officers Act from 1 January 2017 until 30 November 2016. I would like to highlight some of the minor amendments to the National Public Education Act, but we hope that it will be helpful for everyday practice. One of them: in order to enforce equal treatment, to prevent and eliminate segregation in schools, it is crucial that the Minister for Education has jurisdiction over cases where the establishment of boundaries at the level of the government office and the district centre has not been successful. We clarify the rules relating to disciplinary action, in order to enforce the rights of pupils subject to education, the most serious disciplinary penalty, to ensure early placement in the new institution where school exclusion is applied. According to the previous recommendation of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, the delegation of national minority self-governments will also take place in the institutional council if the institution performs a task of teaching and teaching nationality. The amendment was, moreover, welcomed by the Commissioner and was also agreed by the ethnic advocates. In order to fulfil the teaching obligation, we make it clear that children living in Hungary can only fulfil their teaching obligation in a Hungarian school or in international schools operating in Hungary, and that it is not possible for a child who is not recognised in Hungary as a foreign school or, where appropriate, as a school, to study in private or distance education, or to carry out uncontrollable activities. Preventing this is in the best interests of the child. We also make the amendments to the New York Convention on the Rights of the Child in such a way that minors legally residing in Hungary can participate in free public education not only up to the age of compulsory education in Hungary, i.e. up to the age of 16 but also up to the age of 18 under the same conditions as Hungarian citizens. Our last amendment is to extend the qualification conditions for applying to the teaching profession, and to clarify it on the one hand as a result of the replacement of the missing workforce, and on the other hand as a result of the adjustment to the changes in the higher education system. That is what I would like to say very briefly about the amendments that we have before us. I'm asking you to support these. Thank you. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-10-90	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Before we begin the speech of the lead speaker, we must decide on a matter of sitting. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, indicated that he wished to speak during the general debate. Members of the Vice-President shall, in the event of opposition, lead the sitting in the course of further negotiations of a separate motion only if the Parliament agrees to do so. I would therefore like to ask the honourable Parliament whether it agrees that Vice-President István Hiller, in the course of the further discussion of the motion, should he speak, then he can still lead the meeting. I'm asking anyone who agrees to this vote to raise your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I find that the visible majority of the Parliament has accepted my motion, so that everything is dismissed in order for Mr Vice-President to speak. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Winner Vinnai. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-11-10-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Dear Secretary of State, I would like to advance the fact that our faction supports the bill amending certain laws governing education. This opinion is supported here in the general debate by the following arguments, since the expoze also included a response to practical life. There are many technical amendments, texts, legal gaps, or other legislative proposals which have in the meantime led to coherence with other laws. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] In our opinion, on the one hand, the aim of the amendment is to provide high-quality access to education for all children subject to education, on the other hand - at least this is what I have read out of the bill - an important goal is to achieve efficiency and better functioning, and, as I have just indicated, to respond to some practical experiences, or to put it in a realistic way that the educational system is functioning. I would like to underline this word: its functioning, as it is also a matter of substance, but it is essentially characterised by the unification of the application of the law, the removal of gaps in the law, the clarification of the text and the creation of coherence of the bill. The current bill concerns the public education sector, the 2011 CXC on national public education. Act CXCIX of 2011 on Public Service Officers. LXXX of 2016 on the regulation of education and the amendment of certain related laws adopted this year. Law and, of course, as we have heard in the State Secretary's submission, the 2011 CCIV on Higher Education is concerned. Law. What is the meaning of the law amendment? One of the important aspects, namely one of the fundamental reasons for the amendment, is the establishment of district centres. It is well known that 58 district centres will be established as an independent budgetary body, and this was done earlier on 1 January 2017, and this amendment will now bring it forward, or should be established by 30 November 2016. I think that this is necessary to ensure that the operation is even safer and that the maintenance change is smooth, which means that, in addition to the state's reservations, the operation will be taken over by the state from the municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen, Resources, resources to be spent on education, grants are being debated within the walls of this House. In my opinion, the new district central system will lead to faster payments, the loss of debt, and we hope that this will not be re-produced, and that we will have or will apply adequate expenditure to the system by the education government. [[15.00]] Let me tell you a recent experience or, more specifically, I read an article. According to Eurostat data, support for education has increased in Hungary in recent years, based on a 2015 figure, the average of the last 3 years, slightly but increased, while the EU average has decreased by 0.2 percent. So Hungary is in the middle field, and according to these figures, it spends 10.3 percent of public expenditure on education and about 5 percent on GDP. So I think that this direction is good, and it is important that the centers of the district are set up on 30 November. In addition, those working in the districts, as we have heard from the Secretary of State, will also be subject to the Public Service Act from 30 November. This is an important aspect, the workers there know what classification, what scope they are subject to. Dear House, I would also like to mention some of the essential elements of the amendment. I'd start from the direction of the National Public Education Act, and maybe focus on the ones that weren't mentioned in the Expo. One of the very important things is about the new graduation exam. A new exam subject or the examination requirements for the new examination level of a final exam subject may not be established in a short time or immediately, but must be introduced in an ascending system. In my opinion, this is a very reasonable proposal. Similarly, complementary national language education as a basic task and the presentation of a school performing such activities in the law is also important, as this is a deficiency provision. It is an existing task and type of institution, so it must be shown in the public education system. In addition, the Secretary of State spoke about the boundaries of the school districts. I also personally support it, but our faction also supports - for the benefit of disadvantaged children and can reduce school segregation - that if the government office and the district centre do not agree on the boundaries of the school, it will be decided by the minister responsible for education, if justified. So, in my view, this is the essential element, and this is important. The clarification of the rules on disciplinary action has been included in the bill. Here, basically, the aim is to apply the most severe punishment in a school, such as expulsion from school, to provide early placement in the new institution. So the point is that the time should be as short as possible if the parents' responsibility is not extended if I want to put it mildly, so that the child is not without school, but placed in another institution as soon as possible. So it reduces schoollessness, if I may say so. We have also heard that the amendment of the law regulates the fulfilment of the obligation to teach that the children of Hungarian citizens living in Hungary can fulfil their teaching obligations either in a Hungarian school or in a foreign or international school authorised in Hungary. In Hungarian, it is about not in schools that are in contact with non-recognized schools or, where appropriate, non-school organisations, in private learning relationships, and so, in fact, the essence is to exclude themselves from institutional education. I think that's the right way to go. A few words about higher education. Mr. Secretary of State has described it here. I would only confirm that it is an essential element of the amendment to renew the system of rules to support higher education, here the uniform financing of basic activities, but so that the specific funding needs in this system can be addressed. It was about the institution network. Perhaps I would like to highlight the time of support. According to the main rule, as we have heard, the National Higher Education Act is 47. §2 specifies that a person may study for 12 and 14 semesters in public scholarship or part-fellowship training. This may be four semesters longer for students who have disabilities, therefore in view of their disability. Ladies and gentlemen, To sum up, we are discussing an important bill, a sound legislative environment, a regulation based on practical life, in which the interests of children and students are given special attention. That is why we support the bill tabled. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-11-10-92	Thank you very much, Congressman Vinnai. I salute my fellow Members. I give the floor to Vice-President István Hiller, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2016-11-10-93	Mr. President. Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Dear Parliament, The proposed amendment of the law constitutes a whole with the correct introduction of the Secretary of State. It was worth listening to, and not only in the language of the paragraphs, but also in a verbal way, to acknowledge all that the government's current intention, which I would not want to minimize at all the present intention, especially its adjective, because it is indeed the present intention. They did not have that intention two years ago, and not five years ago when they took over the government, and they were talking about something completely different. In his speech, Mr Vinnai expressed the mechanical amendments in such a way that it is unnecessary to repeat them, as you have said. From time to time, due to changes in different circumstances, the legislation really needs to be adapted, and I think there is no problem in that; this is the opportunity and task of all governments. Whoever wakes up early can do it earlier. But there are some issues that really deserve to be weighed up in the house of the country, and since it is an amendment, so some kind of change from the previous one, not only to know the government's intentions, but also to take real approaches to each other, we do not have to be afraid of this, to confront each other. Let us note that the name of the district centers, this 58 units in the history of the Hungarian administration, and in the history of the Hungarian administration, were not included in this unit and this number of units. It can be an advantage and may be a disadvantage. Disadvantage, because we don't have any experience of how this works. Advantage, because it can only be better than what it has replaced, because it is the replacement of the institution-support centre, named after poor Klebelsberg, which is already dead on paper from an office building in Budapest, and in practice in scandalous circumstances. We agree and I am pleased that, after the first request of this profession and then demanded it, and then protested for it in the most diverse places, here in the house of the country, and in several professional forums or just open spaces, from Miskolc to Kossuth Square in Budapest, tens of thousands of people demanded the change, which they finally saw to end this unfortunate Klebelsberg Institutional Center - just to make it clear that the word "unfortunate" was not about the name of the person, but about the institution - that there should be 58 units. Clearly, if the operation of this is required by 1 January, it will not come to life from one moment to the next. So we could even say that the creation of 30 November is not simply a formal change, but a content initiative that leaves at least a few days, a few weeks of upswing, although I do not think that from Christmas Eve to New Year's Eve crowds will be involved in the construction of these district centers. [[15.10]] But while we are at it, in the head of the Secretary of State, there have been words, phrases, and phrases that lead me to make deeper changes than simply that on 1 January or 30 November, there are changes in text-pointing and various interwording remarks, but I see that intelligent, silent admission of what has been done since 2010 - according to the law 2011 - is unsustainable, unstandard; as a result of which I make the statement that at present, in autumn 2016, 6 years after the adoption of government, Hungarian education, including Hungarian public education, is in a worse state, is at a lower level than at the moment when the government is handed over. This is a rather sad certificate for half a decade, and this statement is not simply based on the difference in our political views, but on the experience of thousands of teachers, tens of thousands of students and parents and hundreds of thousands of thousands of people who have not expressed their views on a policy such as in the past half a decade, in the last two or three years. But that our debate - I sincerely hope that we are in a professional and political debate; yet we are in the house of the country, where we are not in a professional conference, but through professional opinions, it is also worth considering political differences - I say to you that when I think that when Mr Secretary of State talks about creating harmony, harmonisation between the current reality and the New York Convention, the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child's Rights, the famous recommendation that it is in the best interests of children, which is decisive, that this has become a symbolic debate and content between us. The use of words and the sentence that Mr. Secretary of State used correctly is the first sentence of the Public Education Act until December 2011, a professional reference to the best interests of the children, which has been deputised to cut out of the law without leaving a trace. For the first time in five years, we hear that the Government's Secretary of State for Education on this issue is taking the view that cooperation must be established in the Hungarian educational efforts and the debate that has actually become substantive and symbolic. For five years, they said something completely different, they did something completely different. Following each other, it was led by ministers of different colours and different minds, which gave each other, despite their debates, this content and professional aspect. You have eliminated this in 2011, and almost approximately five years later, in an important reference here in the Hungarian Parliament, this will be brought back to the Hungarian professional and public policy thinking, which is a clear change for me, the admission of failure so far, and the search for new ways, which we have now heard by means of the amendment of the law that seems to contain only mechanical changes. I would like to tell you that we have tabled amendments to Parliament on several points. I will ask for their discussion and support. Clearly, we make our position on the final amendment conditional on the adoption or non-acceptance of our opinion. But when I was just talking about a change, maybe you can just argue that I'm gonna get involved in one sentence. Maybe it's just the same thinking, the use of words, but it's only right to consider a UN convention recommendation on the rights of the child, it's not nice to throw it out of the law, so let's create it now. I don't think that's what this is about. The point is that I am sensing a debate on much deeper changes, which has not yet been discussed in this House, and therefore, as there are many ideas about education, it is worth mentioning now. Like the spirit of the bill, almost at the same time, several days earlier, a new political-professional, government-related vision sees the light of day, an analysis of this begins in pro-government and non-government newspapers; obviously, the important events of the past days are taking this off the agenda, but it is still here. The news is that you will come up with a new plan named after Kálmán Széll; that you will put the community of competitiveness and education policy in a new light; that around the Hungarian National Bank there is plenty of foundations, so it is possible to choose which team will put this together in a textual way - they will talk about the importance of human capital and they will say the following, according to reports. There is, therefore, an amendment to the law on change, and at the same time there is another non-legal form of education. I would ask you to listen to what this is about, and I quote:. In line with the needs of the labour market, we need to strengthen the competence and skills-based teaching material..•Please, this was the focus of our public education policy until 2010. A number of debates, millions of minutes, committee meetings, and debates in Parliament have shown that you have opposed this in 2010, in 2011 the opposite was enshrined in the law, saying that this is the result of all kinds of public education savagery; and now I am reading here after five years that we need to strengthen the competence and skills-based curriculum. In fact, he says a line up:. The possibilities of further increasing the share of private resources in the education system, especially in higher education, need to be explored. I respectfully draw attention to the fact that, among other things, a referendum was initiated in 2008. Then your plan says that improving language skills in secondary education needs to be increased, and that the proportion of those with higher education needs to be further increased. Please, we could have written this. But the last five years have been about building a so-called work-based society, about the future not being a higher education orientation, but about vocational training. Ministers, Prime Minister, spoke about this in detail at various conferences. You have terminated vocational school, reduced access to higher education institutions, reduced attention to high schools; and I will read that now you are talking about continuing to increase the proportion of those with higher education. I will not even talk about increasing R &amp; D expenditure in higher education in the absence of time, which could be one of the means of creating centres of excellence between universities and companies, which is true as it is written here. What a pity that the law on this in 2009 was practically thrown out of the window! [[15.20]] So I have to say that in the current amendment of the law - which is an amendment to certain laws relating to education - there are also changes in terminology, in thought, which seem to want to replace a failed, failing half a decade of education policy. I do not think it is a coincidence that, at the same time as the amendment of the law tabled by the government and the minister of the government, the opinions of the government that appear to be very credible in various organs and the various ideas of the Hungarian National Bank say the opposite of education, as is your half a decade of practice. So the change is noticeable. I hope that this change will be highlighted even more bravely, and then there may be greater agreement in Hungarian education, because the last half decade has been a failure. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-10-94	Thank you very much, Vice President Hiller. I give the floor to Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2016-11-10-95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, It is a cliché, but the more true is the statement that we live in a very rapidly changing world, that the external and internal conditions, the rules, new instruments are changing, and that this accelerating change in legislation and regulation must also be followed, especially in the laws on education, because education has, for a long time, had the dual task of not only following events, but also of preparing the future. According to the position of the Christian Democratic People's Party, this amendment contains an echo of these changes in the meantime, as opposed to the opposition representative before me, who tried to make it so, but failed to do so, because he cannot prove by fact that the start of correction of a five-year failed education policy is the beginning. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] I'm gonna point to some of these points. When such noise follows the words of a Member, we can already suspect that they agree with him, but this is just how they express their opposition. Please listen to me quietly, I'll do the same. I would like to point out a few points that have been the correct response to the changes that have taken place in recent years in this legislative amendment. Perhaps the most important element of Hungarian politics is the national policy, which appeared about symbolically in 2010 in the universally voted citizenship law and other ways. In order for Hungary to remain strong, strong and strong, it is essential that Hungarians living outside Hungary are strengthened, and we give the same right, opportunity and trust to our nationalities stranded in Hungary or otherwise living here. Therefore, this amendment responds quite rightly to the shortcomings that have so far been left out of the law for some reason, that it introduces complementary national minority language education as a basic task in institutions where it does so, that it provides that representatives of national authorities should be invited to the institutional council of such institutions, and that it is also very right that, in part, by winking at higher education, the 20th edition of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In Section 5 where there is no or insufficient national vocational education and training to ensure adequate pedagogical training in ethnic schools, it allows teachers from across borders to do the work. The second such important package is about children. It is true that it is literally a concept that the best interests of children have been left out of the 2011 law, but in my view it is a concern about words. For whoever takes the trouble not only to speak such words, but also to read the law carefully and interprets certain paragraphs of the law for himself, must be able to see precisely that the general education law created throughout 2011 is in the interests of children, because we have renamed it as a public education law against the former Public Education Law, because the child, the child and the young person are indeed an evolving individual whose education is a state task. And there's nothing they can show us from the Act 11 against that. Now they're riding on the fact that the term came out in the minister's or secretary's exposé. I understand, of course, the convulsive efforts of opposition representatives to prove at all costs that the previous education policy has failed, but that is not true, this can be demonstrated by the many tens of thousands of teachers and hundreds of thousands of children of the country's schools. It is in the interests of the children in this legislative amendment, and it is about a good response to the changes that have taken place in the meantime in the 16th century. §, from which you can see that the education of non-Hungarian citizens - by which you mean: even migrant children - must be guaranteed. We can read this text with a good feeling. In the Council of Europe, we are currently discussing a report on ensuring the rights of unaccompanied migrant children, including their educational rights. We will be proud to stand our ground in Strasbourg when we can report - and I have already indicated in the Strasbourg Parliament - that Hungary is preparing for any number of migrant children in this country to receive all rights and opportunities. It is also in the best interests of children that private learning status has been settled by the bill of 15th century. In Section 2, trying to avoid the situation of uncontrolled, possibly inadequate, professional institutions, the Hungarian children whose parents are taking them abroad. So that's comforting, too. The 12th is very agreeable. § 2 is also the provision of how the government office in disciplinary proceedings should assist families where the parent may not be able to find another school after a decision to change schools, since the school obligation must be fulfilled, not only its duty, but also the right of every child, even if he has committed a serious disciplinary offence that makes him put into another school. It is also about the best interests of children in the 4th century. §, which explicitly states the evidence that has been or has always been tried to comply with the current education government for years or decades, it is clear that the change of graduation rules must take place in time, at least two years before children, young people, have the right to prepare for new requirements and expectations. Which, of course, does not rule out the possibility of making provisions up to four years earlier. This means that if, say, in the days, the education government decides on a change in the rules of graduation, then - now it is 2016, we have to apply for graduation in 2017 - the next time these changes can be implemented in the graduation of 19th grade. Yes, this is also in the best interest of the children. I can say for sure that a law is more in the best interest of children when it makes statements in detail, makes decisions that are really in the interest of the children, as if it were a nice declaration of this sentence, but takes measures in the law that are against the interests of the children. We have seen a number of examples of this in the previous ones, but it is not my job to give criticism of the previous education policy. [[15.30]] The restructuring of the Klebelsberg Institutional Center is, of course, different from that of opposition representatives. In 2013, the Parliament and the Government decided that it was necessary to establish an institution to carry out the tasks in order to become a state reserve. That's a fact, it happened in the summer of 2013. On 1 January 2014, the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Centre was operational. In other words, in a few months, the large organization, which had to do the tasks of state reservation by changing the decades of fixations, stood up. As a result of such rapid work, the organization was operational in January. We never claimed, and I didn't claim that the operation was flawless. After all, it had to move extremely quickly to get it done in time. The months that followed showed the shortcomings in the operation of the Klebelsberg Institutional Center. There's a budget deficit on this one. This is what the series of protests started on 1 January 2016. That's a fact. But it's not a fact that tens of thousands have gone out on the street several times. But let's not argue about numbers afterwards. The teachers, the multitude of those who at that time expressed their displeasure in this way, today teach in peace and comfort in schools. They are silent, because they know that they have received a salary increase of tens of thousands of forints, and they also know that on the round table of public education, led by the Secretary of State, they have the opportunity, through various organisations, to express their opinions and not only to voice them, but to listen to them. What we are now reading in this draft law is that it will stand up by 30 November, and from January, the status of KLIK and its employees will be in the law, as a result of these negotiations. From the outset, opposition parties have not liked the state institutionkeeper, and I cannot imagine an organizational set-up, and an institution that carries out, carries out, and would not be criticised for, the tasks of state maintenance. Because, in the first place, the word state and state take care of and take responsibility and help, by some reflex some opposition politicians and parties have itchy palms, and then they start saying ugly things or things that don't match reality. I wish that this restructuring would be successful. I am aware that it started months ago, as the outlines of the Spring Public Education Round Table negotiations have already been drawn up. This did not come out of the head of the Secretary of State yesterday, or from the head of the government, and in order for the new KLIK to work smoothly from 1 January, which I am pleased to retain the name of Minister of Culture Klebelsberg Kunó, it is necessary to do this work with full force and capacity. I would like to hope that more emphasis will be placed on professional tasks in the new KLIK, as will the staff and the management, because we should not forget that the best interests of the children not only require sufficient money for the tasks, but also that the pedagogical work is carried out at the appropriate professional level. It is also about amending the Higher Education Act, and it would also introduce changes that have been made by time. Here, too, we can see the interests of children and young people being represented in the act, the 30th. Mr Vinnai, for example, was mentioned by my fellow Member, who was a Winner of Vinnai. It is very right that this bill has extended the period of support for young people with disabilities, and I hope that it will and will indeed become a law. Because in our society, we are delighted to see a stronger view, and this is reflected in the legislation, and also in everyday life, that people with disabilities require special care and help, different from the average, because they live in difficult circumstances. This is what they need to live their lives as full citizens. We welcome the two new universities, which are not new, they are only reflected in the name and certain structural changes, the Hungarian University of Dance Arts and the University of Sopron. The Christian Democratic People's Party supports the amendment of the law, mutatis mutandis. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-10-96	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-11-10-97	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear House, I would like to highlight a few points from the proposal before us. I'm not gonna make a big comment like the previous speakers, and I'm not gonna go back to the basics in time. I would like to address this proposal, and although there are a lot of eligible points in it, I would like to highlight one or two points that we would like the Government and the Secretary of State to reconsider, perhaps consider supporting the amendments that Jobbik has tabled on this matter. In medias res, I would like to start with what is a little linked to education, but school security, public security, if I may put it this way, also concerns the question, given that I would like to delete it and, more precisely, abolish the definition that there would be no disciplinary action against students under 10 years of age. The bill would bring that in. We do not think that is necessarily justified. We are not talking about a criminal procedure, of course, and Article XXI Admitting centuries-old relationships, students under the age of 10 can see the impact of their actions. I must say that the possibility of at least one disciplinary action should be maintained for students under the age of 10. We can see that, and it can be confirmed, Mr Secretary, that in many cases 8-9-year-old students commit acts, in many cases even crimes in certain schools. And Hungarian criminal law or any other legislation cannot sanction this, since in some cases the 12-year criminal age limit delivered can only be applied in the most serious cases, so basically there is little to do until the age of 14. In many cases, it has already been seen that 8 - 9 - year - olds have even committed sexual harassment against their classmates. In this case, it is very difficult to do something if there is not even the possibility of disciplinary action. We believe that this should be considered. This is a proposal that you have put forward, which may seem beautiful, but in practice, given the Hungarian living conditions, it requires rethinking, knowing rural life conditions, because in many cases it makes schools completely unenforceable. In any case, I must say that even disciplinary action is often not an effective instrument, but we should at least allow that. With regard to the same point, the question may arise that, until he has been transferred to another school, he has been expelled from one school, and he must remain there until he has been assigned a place to go until his new relationship is established. It may also sound good not to have a few days when these students are kind of floating in the air, but in many cases it may be, and here again you just have to stand on the victim's side that they didn't accidentally remove that student from a given school. It may be that the interests of a particular person, person or group have been violated to such an extent that it would be a much smaller offense if he, say, for five days until he actually had been transferred, the, hanging in the air, as if he had been left there, or had to resolve his education and placement in another way than to leave him in the community from which he was removed. [[15.40]] Again, I feel that we are not on the victim's side, and that we are putting the interests of a remorseful student above the class or even one or two victims, that is not necessarily good. This is not only good in this case, but we also stress that protection of the victim's side is a priority for other criminal law rules, and then, of course, it is possible to deal with what is going on with the perpetrator - again a little further away, this is not a matter of education - the next question, in addition to punishing the perpetrator. In the same way, victims should be protected primarily in education. We have also tabled an amendment to this. What is another important point and feedback from professional circles is the subject of ethnic education. I would like to highlight a few problems, and I would like to recommend them to the Secretary of State. On the one hand, it is welcome and the nationalities in Hungary are pleased that the national authorities can participate in educational institutions as maintainers. This is an important expression of cultural autonomy, so it is okay. I have to say, this is welcome. However, the feedback is that in many cases it is possible that this maintenance operation or reservation can be transferred. According to the feedback, there have been cases where such claims have been rejected without justification. This would be much more visible in the case of a more elaborate taxation criterion system, and abuses and errors could be better filtered out. By the way, I have to say that, for example, German nationality is a great beneficiary of this, in terms of the fact that a large number of educational institutions have been taken over. I'm the XXII myself. I was a member of a minority self-government for eight years at the time in the district; so we know that these opportunities are good, with which not only local governments live, but also local residents. It's not just XXII. It was a district example, but in many cases the parents of the locally resident and, where appropriate, non-national students are also happy to have their children enrolled in such institutions. So supporting and promoting this is also an excellent opportunity to bring cultures, nationalities and mother society closer together. If capacity expansion were to be achieved, I must say that language teaching tasks could be carried out, because the level of language skills in Hungary is unfortunately quite low in European comparison, in several schools of German nationality, but this is also true of others. The reason I'm talking about the German is because that's what I have a bigger view of. It would also help that not only children of German nationality could learn the language, very many would enroll their children. In many cases, unfortunately, even nationalities do not always get in, because the needs are very high. What is not always resolved, however, is that the particular needs of the national educational institutions maintained by the KLIK, here I would like to underline nationality, not always managed by the system, is also a feedback from nationalities. So obviously the needs would be greater than the opportunities. Although a positive emphasis has been placed on the existence of a nationality bonus from nationalities, they are very happy to have it, but there is a problem of setting fixed working time as 50 percent of the teacher's working time, so it should be taught in such a nationality language to be entitled to do so. According to the feedback, 50 percent varies from institution to school district. It would be better to define this in such a way that a more stable, easily visible number is set so that such teachers can better count on it. It is also a big problem if, say, an hour is missing for this 50 percent, because then there is virtually no substitute for that teacher. This should also provide for a more precise and realistic definition of the rules on benefits. This would lead us to the fact that we might have to acknowledge the minority classes taught in less than 50 percent of our classes. I think teachers deserve that. It's really depressing that if you're only missing an hour or two, there's no substitute. It was still a question of the foreign language allowance that, although Article XXXIII of 1992. If the use of a specific foreign language is justified on a regular basis and is provided by the teacher, then he is entitled to this allowance, but the 2011 CXC. No such allowance is included in Annex 8 to the Act. The possibility of a legal vacuum may arise. It should be clarified that education in different ethnic languages, which, as I have said, does not fall into the nationality bonus, how it can be precisely compensated, is entitled to a teacher who does not reach the 50 per cent level, but is theoretically entitled to a foreign language allowance. This is all the more true, because, as I said, language skills in Hungary must be increased either through the use of nationalities or in a different way. The best way to do this is to introduce it not only as a language lesson but also as an education of specific objects in education. Obviously, we can't do this without good teachers, we can't have any illusions, and we can't do it if we only take a few hours to learn the language. This will certainly also determine Hungary's economic potential in the future. There's one more thing I want to tell you. It may seem small, but speaking of legislation, the date of entry into force on 30 November may be premature, not just for preparation. We don't know if the law will run through Parliament until then. Of course, I understand that, let's say, with a TAB modifier, this could still be avoided, but it might be more effective, and my fellow Member Dóra Dúró has also tabled an amendment to this, if we set out the eighth day after the publication, or if we were to make the entry into force provision in a similar way. At the same time, if the proposed amendments are considered, we will also look at whether we can support the proposal with them. I can say, Mr State Secretary, that if these substantive and technical amendments, which we have tabled, were to be supported, then we will consider it, because this proposal would otherwise be fundamentally eligible. But, of course, we look forward to how the proposal is going to work and how these amendments are going to work. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-11-10-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. I don't see any sign-ups for a speaker's speech, so we're at the end of it. I don't see an independent congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to the Slovenian ethnic advocate Erika Kissné Köles, who presents the first sentences of his speech in his mother tongue and then continues in Hungarian. You have the floor in a 15-minute time frame. [[15.50]]
u2016-11-10-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Spoštovani Gospod Predsednik! Poslanke in Poslanci! Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Congressmen, The year 2016 attracted intense interest among the public educational institutions, maintainers, municipal authorities, ethnic and ecclesiastical communities, parents, pupils and practical users of the services of public education. It's not a coincidence! The quality of education in a society, how modern and credible it is, the degree to which it conveys content elements that can be used in all areas of human life, how planned and consciously built and interoperable it is, how effective the quality of education is, a measure of how consciously the society, the government, the portfolio and its institutions are building the future of the country's children and young people, thus the population of the country. The ethnic communities living in Hungary, we advocates - even as a high school teacher myself - have a special interest in changes in public education public service provision, the development of a new system of institution maintenance, content improvements, changes affecting the career of students and teachers. T/12731 by the Government and the Minister of Human Resources. Several of the sections of the legislative proposal submitted concern, clarify and clarify, in particular, the issues of ethnic public education, their legal background. The first point of the bill, the amendment of Act C of 2001 on the recognition of foreign certificates and diplomas in the practice of nationalities in Hungary, is also interesting because of the fact that, because of educational, cultural and further bilateral agreements between their mother countries and Hungary, young people of certain nationalities, they acquire a professional degree and a degree in the mother country. It is possible to recognise them in the form governed by national law on the basis of existing international conventions, EU directives and the Lisbon Recognition Convention. Article 5 of the Act cited. The determining authority may set up an expert committee or expert committees to carry out expert tasks related to recognition or localisation. This proposal is amended as follows:. The determining authority may appoint an expert to perform expert tasks related to recognition or localisation. An expert may be a person who has employment law in an educational institution and at least ten years of educational or administrative experience. The amendment significantly simplifies the existing legislation. It would be an advantage for national minority communities if the person of the expert could be excluded, especially in the case of prospective ethnic educators and teachers wishing to be employed in the field of public education. In the case of nationalities with a mother country abroad, certificates and graduates are counted on by the ethnic communities in all areas, so we consider the planned amendment of the bill to be a satisfactory change. T/12731. Point 2 of the Act on National Public Education is an amendment to the 2011 Act on National Public Education. The bill 3. § 4 of the National Public Education Act. The amendments to Section 1 are included in the basic tasks of the institutions, i.e. the definition of public education tasks contained in the statutes and basic professional documents of the public education institution. The involvement of nationality in public education is a transfer of several points from the current law in force. However, until now, the legislative proposal was not included in the basic tasks. Article 1.15 of the Act, the concept of supplementary nationality language education. It's 17/2013. EMMI regulation on the issue of a directive on pre-school education of nationalities and a directive on education of nationalities, citing the 2011 CXC on national public education. It clearly sets out the legal conditions for supplementary national language education. Article 8 Paragraph 1 of Section 1 defines the types of education that can be organised according to which ethnic education can be organised. Point (e) of this section also identifies supplementary education of nationality. Its inclusion in the basic tasks is therefore justified and reassuring to us. B/662. Report on the situation of nationalities living in Hungary between February 2013 and February 2015 as it demonstrates the functioning of this form of nationality language education on the basis of credible data. Annex 6 to the report contains these data: 1284 children were involved in 35 institutions during this educational year. For this issue, I refer to Article 8 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. Article 14/A of the Act on National Public Education. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from earlier programming periods in accordance with Chapter III of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. This paragraph shall be incorporated into the law of 17/2007. The possibilities of the supplementary provisions of the EMMI Regulation on nationality language education. Point 2 of the EMMI Regulation summarises the teaching of nationality in kindergarten and defines the scope and scope of this. T/12731. Bill No. 8 The contents of the section are welcomed by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. We call on honourable Members to adopt the bill in favour. The change in nationalities is included in the bill 14. Article 2 (1) (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), In order to represent the interests of local communities at school, it is possible to establish an institutional council consisting of parents, pupils, educational bodies, local government, church legal persons, the same number of representatives of local chambers of economic affairs and their maintenance delegates. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The tasks of the Institutional Council are 20/2012 on the functioning of educational institutions and on the use of the names of public education institutions. EMMI Regulation 121. § 2 of the Act states. The paragraph also contains the rules on the establishment and functioning of the institutional council, according to which the national government is also entitled to initiate the establishment of the institutional council. The National Public Education Act 73. Paragraph 3 of Section 3 does not, however, include the possibility of delegation of a member to the Council for national authorities. A German minority government in Szekszárd drew the attention of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and the Deputy Commissioner for the Protection of the Rights of Nationalities in Hungary. The deputy nationality ombudsman initiated an investigation with a view to legal certainty and the enforcement of nationality rights. Following the detection of the contradiction, AJB-3090/2016. In Case No.3 it was found that the Ministerial Decree governing the method of delegation of a member of the school institutional council by the Public Education Act and the national minority authorities was not in line. The Parliament's Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and its Subcommittee on Public Education and Culture discussed the matter at its meeting on 19 October, welcoming the amendment of the specialty, following a joint report by the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and the Deputy Commissioner for the Protection of the Rights of Nationalities in Hungary. I would like to stress it, because even in our circles there have been contradictions and misunderstandings that the legislation specifically applies to institutions that are active in the maintenance of the state institution-keeping system and which also provide nationality education, as recorded in its statutes. The bill is 16. The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary also welcomes its section, as it may be a matter for our fellow nationalities to provide free kindergarten services to children with non-Hungarian citizenship. [[16.00]] It is a significant help for ethnic communities in the 20th century. The content of the section, which facilitates the organisation of ethnic education in the case of minority minorities, by allowing teachers from across borders to teach at ethnic schools, without having to establish their diplomas. I am very pleased that the speakers before me, so all the lead speakers, have touched on the question that the present bill has a major impact on nationality public education, and I am very confident that the bill will be adopted. Thank you so much for listening. Hvala za posornost!
u2016-11-10-100	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, No one has made a two-minute contribution, so there will be further speeches by their representatives. First I give the floor to Congressman László Kucsák, Fidesz.
u2016-11-10-101	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We have a proposal to amend certain laws on the regulation of education, and in this proposal we have three legislative proposals concerning the public education sector: on the one hand, the law on national public education and, on the other hand, the law on public service officials and, on the third, the law on the regulation of education and the amendment of certain related laws. It has already been said in the expozee and in the keynote speakers what are the two reasons for these amendments: one is the reason for setting up district centres, and the other is the need for practical experience, the need for text points based on feedback from law enforcement practitioners, the replacement of legislative provisions, and the creation of coherence with other legislative amendments in the meantime. In order to achieve the transformation of the KLIK, the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Centre, and its division to 58 district centres, the associated maintenance change can be made for the public education institutions concerned and to ensure that the tasks, personnel and tangible assets associated with the cessation of municipal management tasks in this area can be safely carried out, all of which justified the establishment of district centres as central budgetary bodies before 1 January 2017 and exactly 30 November 2016. Like I said, there's already been a reference to that. Allow me to react briefly to what Congressman István Hiller has said in this context. He made some positive statements, which means that there are also meeting points, and, of course, there are elements that we still see differently, but that comes from the nature of the thing. Congressman Hiller said that the expoze was correct, that the intention, which led the authors to do so, was not small, that there was no objection to the need to amend legislation at times, and that this was also due to the nature of the matter, and in relation to the 58 district centre, it was said, if I recall correctly, that, in the Member's view, this is certainly a step forward. [[Dr. István Hiller intervenes.]] that it was a large organization, somewhat still with the appearance of the KLIK, and that 58 territorial units are compared to [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] There are many of these in the history of the world, but I don't have to explain that to you. You have also suggested that this can be an advantage and may be a disadvantage. Let us trust and be sure that we will be able to break out the benefits of this. I think it is certainly a major step forward, even if we just think that this 58 district centre will all function as a separate budgetary body, so they have a separate budget and include such areas as I think are still well defined and visible. We know very well, because I am an individual Member of Parliament in the neighbour's county, where the educational institutions of three districts are joined together by the district centre; let us be able to carry out its activities as much and more effectively as possible. Back to the proposal: there has already been a reference to what the main elements are, some of which I should like to briefly outline in relation to the area of public education. We have just heard a woman speaking, and let me first mention the presentation of supplementary ethnic language education as a basic task and a school performing such activities in the law! This is a deficiency clause, an existing task and type of institution, which is known and regulated by the national law on the rights of national minorities, but must also be reflected in the system of national public education. The spokeswoman also pointed out that, in addition to a number of other measures planned, you are in favour of this, and we are very confident that the majority in Parliament will vote in favour of this. The proposal provides for the introduction of a new examination course or the examination requirements for the new examination level of the final examination subject, a provision for a substantive change to the requirements of the examination subject of the final examination shall be issued at least two years before the application for the examination. The main reason for the proposal is that this year's situation with regard to VETs: the detailed requirement has not been published a few months before the entry into force, nor can it come up again. The amendment was initiated by the Ministry of Justice and the Prime Minister's Office. The amendment initiated by the Ministry of Defence to provide additional exemptions and exceptions for schools maintained by the Minister for Defence and Police, provides for the possibility of applying them by law. For example, it is not necessary to establish institutional advice in these institutions. Part of the proposal is that it is justified to transfer the competence of the Minister for Education to establish the boundaries of the school district in the event that the government office and the district centre do not agree, the Secretary of State also referred to this in his exposé; as well as that clarification of the rules relating to disciplinary proceedings serves to enforce the rights of pupils subject to the compulsory school, the most serious disciplinary penalty, the early placement in the new institution in the event of school exclusion. The new rules respond to practical problems. According to the previous recommendation of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, it is also necessary to ensure the participation of a delegate of national minority self-government in the institutional council, which we have just heard from the speaker, so that this participation must be ensured, which the Commissioner himself welcomed and, as we have heard, the minority advocate and the other spokespersons agree with this intention of amendment. In order to fulfil the teaching obligation, it is also proposed that Hungarian citizens living in Hungary can fulfil their teaching obligation either in a Hungarian school or in a foreign or international school authorised in Hungary, and that it is not possible for a child who is not recognised in Hungary and who is not a student abroad or, where appropriate, is not a school, to study in private or distance education or to carry out uncontrollable activities. Preventing this is in the best interests of the child, and this has also been mentioned. The proposal also responds to a growing practice of establishing a relationship with a foreign, typically American, non-school, Hungarian citizens, a minor living in Hungary, compulsory children, thus excluding themselves from institutional education. Here again, let me refer back to what István Hiller referred to in his speech, and this is the child's above all or above all interests and positions. I do not want to reopen this polemic, I would just remind you that I think that statement is sparing to the truth - to put it mildly - because you yourself have reasoned calmly - that we would not have included that term at all half a decade ago. They would remind us that we had already been on a parliamentary committee, and there in Parliament's committee in connection with the debate of the National Public Education Act, we have used this term several times, and we have also repeatedly formulated this term - this can be supported by the minutes - that despite the fact that, in particular, this wording was not written in the law, but that the purpose of the law, in the focus of the law, as in the focus of pedagogy activity, must obviously be the child, the children; as we have always said, I am the teacher, the key to pedagogical activity. [[16.10]] So I just wanted to say that, in my opinion, it does not stand up to this expression, this concept, the importance of which we would have thrown out on our part, as the Member said. It is also part of the proposal in the field of public education to ensure consistency with the New York Convention on the Rights of the Child so that minors legally residing in Hungary can participate in public education free of charge not only until the age of 16 in force in Hungary, but until the age of 18 - under the same conditions as Hungarian citizens. In addition, it is necessary to increase or modify the qualification conditions for the employment of teachers, on the one hand, to replace the missing workforce and, on the other hand, to adapt to changes in the higher education system, which is why it is included in the proposal. Finally, it is part of this proposal to ensure that the head of primary school, the head of the institution, will release the certified student from the 16-hour sessions at the primary school of art. The latter amendment is included in the text-exchange amendments. Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, I would also ask you to consider what I have said and what I have said earlier, and, after consideration, if you allow me to support the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-10-102	Thank you, Congressman Kucsak. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2016-11-10-103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I did not wish to comment on this agenda, but I was inspired by Congresswoman Hoffmann. I think that I can say that you should be pleased, Congresswoman, that your children have been to an educational institution in the last system, because I cannot personally say it as a parent. It has been said a great deal from your mouth that it is the best interests of children. Well, in the last six years, that's exactly what this government has forgotten: the best interests of children. He also said that the state should raise the children. Well, I'm sorry. Don't raise the kids in the state. The State does not have to carry out this task. Let's leave it to the parents and leave it to the educational institutions. The state does not have to intervene violently, as has been the case in the last six years. Let me say a few things to the Secretary of State and to my fellow Members, what the best interests of children have been damaged in the last six years, if we are talking about public education or public education. The creation of the KLIK, of course; I still cannot understand, when we are reading this bill now, why it cannot be admitted that this system has failed, that this system has caused only problems, caused only scandals and failed. And now instead of a KLIK, we're creating 58 bad institutions. Although Congresswoman said that we should trust that this will work well. He should not be trusted, but finally a well-functioning system should be established by a government. Or better yet, we should give the institutions back to the municipalities. It must have served the best interests of children in the violent school principal elections and appointments of the past few years. It must have all been for the sake of children, parents, and educators. We could list a million scandals from the last few years. The nationalization of textbooks, the nationalization of the textbook market, the writing of new textbooks must have been in the best interests of the children, Congresswoman. How many years was it that on September 1st they were unable to provide textbooks for children! Of course, at this time, they will tell us that this year has worked well, and now children are learning free of permanent textbooks, you know, Congresswoman, I don't know, in a million cases, when we buy new textbooks after a week, because these textbooks are so good that they fall apart in the first week. Or I don't know, Congresswoman, how would you take it when we erase for a month in September, and I don't even have a chance to buy those textbooks, I might add: I don't even try to erase them anymore, because I've given it up. It must have been in the best interest of children to have violent intervention - I would add that I have said a million times in Parliament's walls that we agree that children should be healthy - with everyday physical education. It was introduced in an ascending system, but it was not provided with gymnasiums, swimming pools and sports equipment and even educators. We still have a problem. Since the school and gym construction program was launched, 72 gymnasiums have been awarded, 13 of them have been built. Thirteen! Stadiums grow out of the country like mushrooms, but the gymnasiums cannot be built in some way today, not even that 72, although much more is needed in the country. I also said a great deal about how we managed to achieve in the six years that they made physical education one of the most hated schools among children, and not because children do not like to move, but did not provide the conditions themselves. I'm sure it was in the best interests of the children that violently introduced religion and ethics served. I am literally saying, Congresswoman, that generations have been destroyed over the last six years by restructuring the education system, and everything has been taken into account but the best interests of the children. And they can smile at each other with the secretary of state, only those who raise children and go to elementary school [[Katalin Veresné Novák: Do you think our children do not go to primary school?]] Tell me how it can happen that we start our school year without a mathematics major, literature major, history major teacher, gym teacher and English major teacher! ? I can list more schools in the country that we started the school year like this. Or we start the school year without a schedule for months, because we miss these specialized teachers, because young people are no longer teachers, because they do not want to pursue this fine profession in Hungary, and they will not even be young in this country. And there's one more terrible thing: they've delivered the education obligation for 16 years. Since then, it has been discovered that there are 43,500 children in the air who are not registered in any system because they have fallen out of the education system and are not in any other system. This government was the one who legalized child labour in Hungary, because for reasons of poverty children are removed from the educational institution because they have the opportunity to go to community service, and the difference between family allowance and public work is that they can make better living for the family. This government is the one who legalized child labor in Hungary, and in a few years, they realize that something will have to be done so that they can't do it today? ! I beg you, we told you before that this was one of the biggest mistakes. And then they talk about the best interests of children and this transformation, that we make 58 little of a great KLIK, that will also serve the best interests of children. Listen to the local governments, listen to the parents, the teachers, and sometimes you should listen to the children themselves, what would be good for them, because the Public Education Act should really be about the children. Well, that's what's been out of the public education bill for the past six years, not about the kids, about a violent transformation, and you're still making the failed system of this violent transformation more complicated. In the words of Congresswoman, I can only wish that after six years they could run a functioning system in this country for our children, and we could list a million other problems that are raised today in public education by those who raise children. Then let us just hope that from 30 November something new and better will work in Hungary. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[16.20]]
u2016-11-10-104	Thank you very much. We're about to make a two-minute comment. I give the floor to Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann, KDNP.
u2016-11-10-105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I've never loved him, and I don't like my words being twisted today. Then, in the report, check: I did not claim that the state was raising the children, nor was it the responsibility of the state; but it is the duty of the state to provide for the possibility of raising the children, to ensure that the children are raised. In fact, that is why I applied to speak to correct this injustice that you have said here, but if I have another one and a half minutes, then I will also say to you that I believe that if we make a statement, it will do us good to prove it. You keep saying it's not in the best interest of the children, what's more, it's against the child's interests. I ask where it is contrary to the child's interest to learn either faith or ethics; when in school he is confronted with the moral consequences of his actions, his words, and his failed actions; if he learns at school to help others, which is also part of civic education. How is it related to serving children's interests or not serving them that the maintainer, which is high above the child, is transformed to deal with the school faster? These are very airborne claims, and you replaced the arguments with passion, but that doesn't mean you're right. We don't see things the same way, that's okay - so we don't have to make any untruths yet. For example, such untruth is that young people no longer go to school as teachers. The Secretary of State will be able to provide precise figures on how the number of candidates for the teaching course changes year after year. Congresswoman, I'm not going to apply for another speech, no matter what you say, because it's not my style, but I didn't want to let that happen.
u2016-11-10-106	Thank you very much. I'll give you the floor for two minutes, Congressman Vinnai, Fidesz.
u2016-11-10-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I do not want to respond to the Congresswoman, but to István Hiller's comment. I'm sorry that you went out, because István Hiller talked about the change in the law amendment, about the change in education, or at least in this material, that's what he's doing between the lines. I think this is right, whether there is a new Kálmán Széll plan or not, based on the press information, that this large system must always be changed, always need to be made a little better, but I would like to respond to one specific thing as someone who has spent three decades in higher education. I find it unfair what he says that the number of candidates for higher education would have been reduced or closed by the conversion of vocational training, the modification of vocational training and the need for a qualified workforce. I would like to say that in Hungary, the secondary vocational school was a very popular type of school before the new vocational training law, more people applied than in high school, and in the context of the current amendment, it is also possible to go to university and college, to graduate at a higher level or even to graduate at a mid-level. So I think that families can decide, based on children's talent and diligence, where they are going, but it is not a question that besides university and college education, which is desirable for a society - I was there, but if, let's say, we train not according to the needs of the labour market, but a hundred students of whom only ten can work on the labour market, then it is possible to think that we are orienting them to another university, college, or involving them in vocational training. Because the fact that there is a shortage of skilled workers today, the fact that the profession must be restored to its honour, in my opinion, cannot be a question, whether we are sitting in opposition benches or in pro-government benches. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-10-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László Varga, Mr MSZP, will take the next 15 minutes to speak.
u2016-11-10-109	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, They may have gotten used to me sometimes taking a little further approach to such a proposal, and perhaps it is an interesting situation and symbolic that we are discussing this education after a medical presentation. They're both salad laws, by the way, and they're dealing with two large systems that seem to have had a very serious problem with the government of the last six years. But why, we didn't talk about the basics of this, but I think, not arguing that these systems can be improved, changed, there were obviously phenomena before 2010, and yet your basic statement was that these are big wasteful systems, there is a lot of money going on, there is a need to be centralized in both health care and education, to catch the reins, and then a lot of resources can be saved. By the way, this is also due to the ideological basis of your governance, to the dismantling of redistribution, to the dismantling of basic services in which citizens can benefit. In addition, they had an alternative purpose with education, which can be seen from terminology, their use of the word: education, now public education, not public education. This can be seen from our point of view, especially for the new generation, by a very serious education here through legislation and, indeed, a reformed textbook system. They want to raise generations that are more of a reflection of your worldview. Well, that's obviously got to be rejected, and there's no debate about that. All of their transformations, centralization, maintenance change, all-inclusive, educators' actions have been done by inadequate coordination with the stakeholders, and in this context, there has been an increase in discontent among all the participants in education, teachers, parents, and unfortunately in children, too, I see this. This was the result of the situation that you describe as changing the world, and the changing world is the reason why this type of change is necessary. Perhaps the most beautiful pro-government language in this was that there was intense interest in the issue of education. Well, intense interest, of course, there were tens of thousands of mass demonstrations. If that is what you mean, then I would like to say that indeed, during these intense demonstrations and demonstrations with intense interest, the educational actors have made it quite clear what their problem is. This series of demands started from Miskolc, and I can tell you that as a Member of the Parliament of Miskolc, it is important that it be effective. Five thousand people demonstrated in Miskolc at the beginning of the year and tens of thousands in Kossuth Square. What I saw then was that there were more serious promises than what we are now seeing in this proposal; more serious promises, and very few of them will come true; in fact, only the surface is scratched by the proposal. It makes partial concessions and paradigm concessions that do not change the original policy of the government in substance. Let me once again clarify my personal position on this reservation, and I also think that many of the positions of Miskolc are what I am about to say. Miskolc and obviously, of course, larger school towns would also have their own schools reserved. This is a majority position in local public life, even if it is not represented by pro-government politicians. The city would be able to perform its role in the right way, of course with the right norm, but I think I can speak on behalf of several large rural cities, perhaps on behalf of the Budapest district, where this is a question that they agree with. However, this does not mean that, for certain types of settlements, we do not agree with the role and system of state institution maintenance, especially in smaller settlements, where they have not been able to or have never been able to devote resources to the maintenance of the institutions. Of course, it goes beyond the involvement of the local government, where appropriate, to organise education in this regard in an area, of course there may and must be a state task. This is clear, therefore, that it is necessary to give the municipalities that wish to take up this role as institutional supporters. I can't help but think that while you're doing general propaganda on educators' wage increases, you've been slylyly removed from category A1 to follow the minimum wage, and in fact, the wage increase that you once fought up is constantly, year after year, increasing the minimum wage; that's what teachers feel, they tell you there's a problem. [[16.30]] I can't help but mention when we're discussing such a proposal, what problems there are in textbook care. Not only the content, I have already referred to it, but also whether there is a textbook where appropriate. Weeks to wait, really, so Secretary of State, really. I can give you such an example of Miskolc, I can give you examples of elementary school students in junior high. For weeks there was no reading book for children, in good schools, otherwise, in schools where teachers do heroin work to educate children. Such a problem was in my constituency at the beginning of this academic year. I'm not saying this to arouse anger, not because it shouldn't happen again, but because it's my basic job. I'd also like to bring here scandals of school principal elections. There have been many of these in our city. It is also so that unanimously supported, by the faculty, the workers, parents, in fact the children were also with a public cry, very old, very respected, well-known directors in public life, and it has become a political issue, and you have removed it from local public life, because there is no longer any meaningful influence on the role of municipal bodies. They can make an opinion, but they can't decide. Therefore, since this decision has gone far away, the risk has also gone far away. So there's been a lot of undeserving replacements, undeserving damage to long-standing directors, which is unacceptable. Yesterday I was at a forum in the Hole, a lot of people came and I brought it up here, but also people say that the school commitment limit delivered to 16 years is amazing in a situation where there is such a serious shortage of skilled workers in the country. I firmly state that each child must be able to hand over at least one profession in such a situation so that he can start life properly. The fact is that especially in such an area, such as the Pit Valley part of Miskolc, a mass of young people grow up without having any perspective in such a changed labour market situation when there are serious labour problems and skills shortages due to the unfortunate exodus of between 500 and 600 thousand people. This must therefore be changed, the age limit for compulsory education must be clearly restored to 18 years, we have said it many times, and everyone must at least have a profession. There is little talk about technical workers who support education, and their wages need to be settled. There was a promise that if they didn't have a comprehensive salary this year, they could receive a fee supplement of HUF 35 000 twice. Many of the technical workers who support education earn just over HUF 70,000 net. They are the ones who have missed a lot of wage increases. To be fair, this is obviously a general and long-standing problem. However, only those who are subject to public institution maintenance received these wage increases and wage supplements more precisely, and those who are subject to municipal institution maintenance did not, or perhaps if the municipality has additional opportunities and resources for which they could do so. So again, those living in the most disadvantaged settlements, those working in these jobs, are in a bad situation. This is what happened in Miskolc, and I would like to say this, even though we have said and demanded many times that this situation be resolved, and we have also proposed it, and I have also made a personal proposal to ensure that the central budget provides all these resources to municipalities and, by the way, non-State-reserved schools. They're not insured. For a nurse, a kitchen worker, who, say, has a net salary of HUF 72,000, this is twice HUF 35,000 for almost a month's wages and has not been paid in most places in the country. It's a shame, I'd like to say. What I would like to say is that you obviously pursue private schools, schools with foundation reservations for some reason, although, by the way, you often provide deficiency services, or because you deal with children who are not properly educated, trained by state-owned institutions, or who do not have a proper profile for them, or for other reasons. Obviously, I am also thinking of particularly talented children, and also of young people with problems. They work with a small norm, but let's say they still have a normative - it's a miracle after the political debates over the last few years - and I don't have any information about Miskolc to get their wages late. This was the last time there was a lack of collateral. There is still a foundation school in Miskolc where they have not yet received their monthly salary. It's the 10th. So it's a problem. They point to the Treasury everywhere in this regard. Question is, what's real about this? So the situation before us is very complex. I appreciate you scratching the surface when you're handling the problem. They are trying to handle it; they are trying to treat it because they see a great deal of dissatisfaction with the actors in education, parents, teachers, technical workers in education, children, and not because, by the way, their worldview would fundamentally change in this story, although I think that education needs real and meaningful change, more resources to really help children to get the best possible professional education everywhere. Thank you, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2016-11-10-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the representative of the MSZP, Congressman Sándor Szabó, within a 15-minute timeframe.
u2016-11-10-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Maybe I'll pick up where the individual congressman of Miskolc left off, as Szeged's Member of Parliament. Mr Secretary of State knows precisely that Szeged is a school town with more than 20 primary schools and 20 secondary institutions, and you also know for sure, Mr State Secretary, that the management of Szeged has fought very sharply before 2013, when it turns out that the maintenance of schools will be taken away by the state and a kind of centralisation will start. At that time, the municipalities were left with the opportunity to perhaps manage the operation, of course, the city of Szeged agreed to do so, and we also said that we would fight for our schools until the last moment. We have done this, Mr State Secretary, because over the last decade, the city of Szeged has spent more than HUF 10 billion on our institutions, including primary schools and secondary schools. Given the policy of education in recent years, the operation of the KLIK, quite frankly, as my fellow Member László Varga said, we cannot really believe that, in the next period, the improvements that we have made will continue, in worse cases, in the case of improvements that we have made, the infrastructure of the institutions and the consistency of the instruments will probably go towards some kind of deterioration. Let me illustrate to you, Mr. Secretary, how badly the system is working, through a number of examples in Szeged. I was also inspired by Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann. I wanted to say something, because I really think that the issue of education is a very important issue, especially for a city as big as Szeged. But how and how matters have been dealt with in recent times, I would like to illustrate through concrete examples, Mr State Secretary, why we think that we do not see that it is cheaper, we do not see that it is more effective and we do not see that education is better than it was in the municipalities before. For example, the glassing of a gym lasted four months, Mr. Secretary of State, because the phones went back and forth from the KLIK center to the school, until finally someone was willing to say that this was a maintenance task or an operator's task. This was during the first periods, in early 2014. Until then, the system was obviously fine-tuned, and by then it was revealed what the maintenance task was, what the operator's task was. [[16.40]] But I think that when a system is transformed, the government should have thought of such basic daily problems when it decided to centralise, because these are problems that could have happened at any school on a daily basis. A bigger problem is that, for example, a gas leak in one school was due to a gas meter being discharged in the spring of one year, and until autumn this gas clock problem was not solved, although the head of the institution repeatedly indicated to the school district that this would be a problem. And it was almost the head of the institution who started to wonder about the school district. Thank God you were able to prove with paper that it wasn't her fault, by the way. And then it's been very difficult to solve this issue since then, but I think it's a long time to wait six months for a gas meter to be replaced or solved. It happened, Mr. Secretary, that a bus was ordered for a school trip, but the bus didn't show up for some reason, and then it turned out why it didn't show up. The reason the bus didn't show up is because they simply didn't pay the customer the money. It was worse than this that the bus left, and then stopped along the way - this happened at another school - because the bus driver accidentally received a phone, so that the bus was not actually paid here, and they had to act quickly, because then he actually had to turn back with the schoolchildren. There have also been cases, Mr Secretary, that the students have missed their study trip abroad, because the KLIK simply did not pay for the flight tickets. By the way, this happened under the Leonardo programme. And there has also been a case, Mr Secretary of State, that there has been a high-value acquisition of IT tools in the framework of the KLIK, but no one has examined that, in the case of previous investments, which have been carried out by tender in some institutions, there is a kind of maintenance period and that IT tools have also been intended to be placed there. It was also a more interesting question, for example, when they wanted to install interactive signs in one of the schools in Szeged, and after not consulting the operator to present the classroom, they almost wanted to install this information board not at the front of the room, but at the back, because they simply were not informed. So, in addition to the fact that there was no communication between the operator and the provider of interactive boards, I think this is a serious problem. This was mainly a problem, reading my notes here, because, by the way, there was a power line right there, and that's what they were about to drill. I think it could have been a pretty big problem there, I think. However, in such a case, I think that the former operator, which is the municipality, and knows where what is located, might have been right to ask. This has also been the case: there have been several cases of failure in single application and, by the way, in several schools, I do not consider Tisza Coast School, Vasvári and the others, and in the case of several candidates, they have rejected professionally qualified leaders who, by the way, I think have proved and performed in previous years, which is also unfortunate. And then I don't even talk about how the operation was regularly characterised by manual control, telephone instructions, frequent, unnecessary, extraordinary data calls, which, by the way, often didn't show the importance, the importance, but it had to be done, because that's what the KLIK otherwise expected them to do. In reverse cases, however, if the head of the institution asked for something, it was true that the letters had not been answered for months. This is exactly the case that I think the city of Szeged wants to fight for his schools until the last moment. It could not otherwise be that we have undertaken to operate, but we now regret that from now on it will no longer be possible for the municipalities, because from January they will completely take away the management of the schools as well as the maintenance of the schools. I think we have said several times, many of us have said that there is certainly something that many municipalities could not do anyway, but I do not know why it is necessary to force the municipalities, such as a city as Szeged or Miskolc, or there are a number of other cities, why there is no way to give them the opportunity, the chance that these municipalities can undertake to maintain their school. They're allowed to run their school. Believe me, Secretary of State, there are special local things that can be handled well only locally, with the work of the head of the institutions there, the parents there, teachers, in cooperation with them. So, this, with all the power we can centralize the education, we're not sure that you're lucky. I am saying this because the examples I have just given justify that the system itself is not good, but I am simply saying it because, by the way, it would be much better for parents, educators and children, if, by the way, these municipalities, which could do this, so that they could undertake both maintenance and operation, would be allowed to do so. I think the sweeping centralization doesn't work, Mr. Secretary of State. Closed to what I started with, after education has not become cheaper, more efficient, or better, I experience and see it, which is why I would like to say it again here, I think that the city of Szeged will be the first among them once the opportunity is opened to take back its schools again. Thank you.
u2016-11-10-112	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, Fidesz.
u2016-11-10-113	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In today's parliamentary debate, I see that there are two debates at the same time. One is the one about the proposal, the bill that is actually the subject of today's parliamentary debate. The other is a political debate of a kind which, in its name or subject matter at the most, is very remotely linked - in the case of education or education - to the original proposal. Obviously, the questions, the points that are of a professional nature and which relate to the proposal, will be answered by the Secretary of State. On our part, on the part of Fidesz and KDNP, I do not think that we can leave out the suggestion of another debate that we have heard from the benches of the MSZP over the last few minutes, and I wish to respond to them now. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély indicated that he did not wish to comment on today's debate, but he was probably very upset by the speakerial round, because he immediately asked for a word, and I would like to focus on one thing in any way. If I understood your words correctly, you said when you referred to the child or children of Rose Hoffmann, how good it was for them that they could go to school in the previous period, in the previous system; how bad it is for the congresswoman now that your children are going to school now. I think that, before 1990, children did not learn what was the reality, which is the truth, and which in many cases served the interests of the Hungarians. Now, if you look at history, we didn't talk about such fate-changing historical events, or we were taught the opposite in schools at the time, if we were talking about Trianon or 1956. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Now they teach him exactly how he is, right?]] I would not, in any way, set this period as a role model for the Hungarian education system, or take it as a time to cry back. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] By the way, ladies and gentlemen, in one of your next sentences, you have said how bad it is that you have only one or two books to choose from, from which you will be able to teach to the best of your knowledge. Before 1990, you could choose from a textbook, so you could choose the one that was. So now it should be decided that the old period before 90 is bad when they learned from a textbook, or it is actually good, because in one of their comments they say that a textbook is not good, and in the other they cry back those times. [[16.50]] Several of my fellow Members have said that more money should be put into education. Well, we're putting more money into education. We spend HUF 455 billion more money on public education than we had in 2010 in the budget planned by the last socialists. That's a lot more money. If one of the debates is already on a political level, I cannot stand to keep in mind that you have closed schools, thousands of teachers are on the streets, you are unemployed, and you have constantly taken money from education. Then, indeed, every school year began with the savings of parents so that they could buy textbook packages at the beginning of the year, because the prices of textbooks had skyrocketed. We wanted to change that, and we did. [[Dr. László Varga: Now there are no textbooks!]] I suppose the Secretary of State will answer that precisely. This year, according to the information, everyone received the textbooks that were ordered on time. [[Dr. László Varga: Months of delay!]] They got the schools if they ordered it on time, because it has a system. Good ahead, you have to order the textbooks in the spring. So the textbooks weren't free, and they were very expensive. We're the ones who made the public catering so wide-open. This is the first year - it is also worth noting - when, with the support of the government and Fidesz-KDNP, we can provide warm food to children in need not only during school hours, but also during all holidays. This is an important task bouquet that schools do, that they are doing not only education, so the transfer of professional knowledge is done by teachers, but also - although you have denied it, but I think it is very important - they are also concerned with education. I'm an educator, and with my colleagues, I think we're teaching, but we're also educating. Many of the teachers are highly skilled, but in all cases they are highly skilled colleagues who have put their lives on it. By the way, teachers are taught in higher education today at a unique level in the world. If we compare the professional and pedagogical knowledge that Hungarian teachers possess, we can be proud and confident that when colleagues go into the classroom, the curriculum will be handed over to the best of their knowledge, at the same time the children's souls will be shaped and raised. But besides education and education, teachers and schools, especially in smaller settlements, have all kinds of cultural missions. They do these, too. In addition, the schools in the small settlements, but also in the capital, we have the XVII. They also take great care in the district of children's social assistance, the signalling system. And I told you about the meal earlier. The sums that were taken from education during the former socialist leadership will therefore be replaced by us. These aren't words and not just words, you can look at them, they're numbers. The fact that it's 455 billion forints more or less doesn't make any difference. My fellow Member, László Varga, mentioned - and this was also a political suggestion - that teachers were not asked or said something like that, and I do not quote it literally. Since I've been a teacher - I don't know what it was before 1990 - there hasn't been such a detailed request for an opinion in the country [[Noise, interruptions on the opposition side.]] When all the teachers in the country were asked by the Minister, Mr Secretary of State, how he felt about the education system. And he didn't just ask for positive opinions! I was present in my constituency, in Rákosmen, at the meeting there, full of gymnasiums, good numbers of colleagues, and they also told me the improved criticisms that were in them, they didn't keep it to themselves. These have been collected by the State Secretariat, and in the roundtable negotiations, it has turned a good part of it into an action plan, and a good part of it has now come into effect, and some of it will now, and some will come in a little over the longer term. I know, because I saw that there were some people who didn't go to the round table, but went out into the street. It was their decision. There are people, there have been, and there always will be, who don't stand there when the job is in front of their table, and they have to figure it out, because then they'll go out on the street. [[Dr. László Varga: Is that the answer to these demonstrations?]] This is a problem, because if there is a question, and we tell them to come here, let's talk about it, tell us what you want, but instead a few thousand people - because it was just a few thousand people, and not all teachers, because most of them were doing their job at work - so, these people didn't take the trouble to tell us what they wanted, but instead, not professionally, they made the streets mood. I don't think it's worthy of a teacher. That would be worthy if you hadn't asked your opinion. If they can't tell us where, they'll probably go out on the street and organize a variety of moves. There is democracy; if they announce and act legally, they can do so. They could have done it now, no one was stopping them from doing it. I'm not arguing their right to go out on the street, I'm arguing whether this method is effective. I think that they have chosen the inefficient method, and if they do not choose the effective method, they probably do so because they want to make a political issue out of it, and they have no interest in solving the issues raised, and they have no interest in improving and improving education. That's all I wanted to talk about now, all of a sudden, on the political side. I am very sorry that the speakers didn't talk about professional matters, and I am sorry that I didn't express my professional opinion either, but I thought that political proposals shouldn't stay in the air, so I had to respond to them. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-11-10-114	Thank you very much. We're gonna have two-minute comments. First, Congresswoman Bernadett Wind, LMP.
u2016-11-10-115	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to see a number quite clearly, this 450 billion you've put into education. I know of a 450 billion, except that they took out 200 billion for socialist governments before you started to govern, and 250 billion for Fidesz-KDNP. I can account for this 450 billion minus, and I don't understand how that suddenly got extra. Be kind and explain this, because I would be genuinely interested in how this was calculated and calculated for you. The other thing is, I'd like to clear one more thing up here. If anyone asks in Hungary how the Fidesz government treats children and educators like en block, I can give you an eclectic example. I recently spoke about it and tabled a bill in order to prevent children of 16 years of age from being taken to community service, because in Hungary there is child labor in public work, Fidesz-KDNP invented, codified and does it. You have arrested, voted against this proposal and stated that you will submit it, because it is indeed a problem that children will be put on the path of poverty in this way, because instead of studying, they are working on public work for 52 thousand forints. After that, it was removed from the law. It was in the law, it was sent to social consultation, and then it was taken and taken out of it, and it still seems to be your position that 16-year-olds can go to community service instead of sitting in school. Because this country is in about this condition that families cannot finance it, not only to train their children, but it also takes it out of school so that all the other brothers will not starve to death! [[17.00]] After that, do not stand up for me in the Hungarian Parliament, and do not start talking about how 450 billion has been put into education when children are sent to public work! Let us take off the mask, honourable Member, and honourable Members, Mr Secretary of State, and tell us how much longer Fidesz-KDNP will watch child labor in Hungary. [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP: That's right. Applause in the same place.]]
u2016-11-10-116	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman László Kucsák for two minutes, Fidesz.
u2016-11-10-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I trust that Mrs Bernadett Wind will not resent me for raising my voice. I also take the liberty of not taking credit for everything he has said, since he has been in the Chamber for at least seven minutes. I would like to inform you that we are here in Parliament at the general debate on the bill on education. I would like to recall that I have had the pleasure of referring to some of Mr Hiller's wordings in my proper speech. I was confident that, as popular cooking shows say, to take a Maggi cube, this should be the basis, perhaps you can really go on a professional-professional policy line on this issue. This was partly successful, partly not, a bit of the residential forum, a little bit of a mix of the professional conference. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Which is why I have applied for a two-minute speech, and I have a moment left of it, on the one hand, on the other hand, on the subject of the things that have been drafted by MEP László Varga and, on the other hand, by Mr Sándor Szabó. I would say, as a poetic question, that when the matter of the maintenance of the municipal institution was recalled, the need for this was formulated for the rest, then they calculated themselves, bearing in mind the situation that had arisen in 2010, also thanks to the declining state normatives, and due to the fact that the municipalities had oversold themselves, for example, in relation to the financing of their educational institutions, and all of this directly or indirectly contributed to the large majority of the municipalities' accumulation of debt, that the government had to take over nearly 1300 billion debts from the municipalities. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The situation with regard to the operation of financing for 2010 was therefore that action had to be taken. How this step has been achieved and how it should be developed will be addressed, among other things, in this proposal. Thank you very much for your patience and attention.
u2016-11-10-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, We will continue with the two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr László Varga, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2016-11-10-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to respond briefly to László Kucsák. This is indeed a question in which, with close attention to the operation of the municipalities, we can both base an opinion. I claim that the influence of education issues has been removed from local public life in all aspects, whether it is the election of a director or the question of what should happen in relation to the development of a school, the direction in which to move to public life, according to local needs, for the benefit of parents, children, educators and those working in education. You can't get this problem out of the way because I think the reaction to this is, in part, to admit that it's a KLIK, it's a big waterhead, the only institutional maintainer, which, by the way, had to be filled with new resources all the time, because it was underestimated how much this type of institution maintenance costs, so it didn't work. So this is what you see, a reaction to this is the creation of a lot of small KLIKs across the country. We don't think that's enough. We should approach this issue more freely than that. That is why I said that there are school towns or, where appropriate, districts where institution maintenance has a very serious tradition. This has a professional background, where appropriate, in the municipalities, and I think that these municipalities could also finance it, if they would, of course, receive the appropriate norm to supplement it. What I can tell you is that these settlements, these districts, they could do that. They can't do this anywhere else. The decision should be given back to local residents, local public life, about what would happen to such an educational institution. That's important. I'm trying to be fair, they're making a move, I don't think that's enough. I'd like you to move on with your lives. Let us make another presentation and consider the possibility for municipalities to become institutional supporters again. Thank you.
u2016-11-10-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr László Palkovics, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-11-10-121	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Today's debate has turned out to be far more ember than the proposal would otherwise have been. I have always wanted to refer to Congressman Hiller. He's got a saying, I'd like to quote right now that what flies like a goose looks like a goose, probably a goose. [[Interruption from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Well, this proposal is indeed what it is. It's not any kind of content... Yeah, it's the 11th tomorrow, that was Martin's day comment. It's really what it is. So these are technical amendments - and that is what this debate would have been about today, and then this came around - that really helps the system that we have been building together for quite a long time. But after a lot of questions have been raised in this regard, I would like to respond, not to all the questions, but to try to put them together in some way. Generally, we always think that when we went to school, everything was better. There's usually one reason for this: we were young then. I can't believe everything was better. That's not true of our college years. In my case, I'm sure it's not true of my elementary school years. Unlike others, I went to school in a village in Zalai, and I didn't know what the relative prime numbers were, because they didn't teach me that, maybe in 81. So in my first semester of high school together, I became a three-way in mathematics, but later I fixed it. So it's not true it was better. I think that the opportunities and the processes that have passed since then have actually led to a better school system. I do not share the opinion of Congresswoman that it would be much worse for our children. I think it's getting better for our kids. But one thing is certain, and the world is changing around us, so let's take it seriously. Let's take it seriously because the U.S. employment office has a forecast to see what new professions are emerging over the next 20 years. From this, it was concluded that virtually the children who are starting elementary school will work in a job that does not exist today, in two thirds. So there are jobs that appear because of the change in the world. Thus, the question should be asked whether, in such a case, it may be heretic to say that, contrary to the state of 25-30 years ago, when we defined a system, the functioning of that system, and we have enjoyed it for many years, whether this will be the future fate of the world. Probably not. Probably not, because our environment changes much faster, our economic, social and technological environment, that we will not be able to do this. The school system is a very important element of this. You can't stick to things that, say, were valid five years ago, and now it's not valid because the world has changed. Let's take a look at those processes. Let us highlight, for example, the issue of migration: two years ago, we did not know what it was, and today it is thematicizing of our lives and every part of our lives. But the same is true, let's say, on the cell phone; two years ago, not every second child had a computer in his hand, and today he has it. I don't think it's the right approach to not being able to change. You can change it, and I think you need to change it. How to define the requirement for an education system is likely to have to be adapted. When I graduated from college, I must have had good knowledge for ten years; those who are now at university will have no more knowledge than when they get out, and then they will have to be re-educated. For this reason, we need to adapt what we expect from our school system. We probably expect the knowledge that our children accept that they can learn things, that they can apply this knowledge, and then they can repeat it at any time in their lives, because it cannot be done just one moment. And here I would like to talk about what Congressman Hiller said, as if we were talking about competence and skills development. I don't think anyone said anything else. The story here is really about the ratio of lexical knowledge and skill - these two together form competence - to be present at school. To think that skill development is the only way to run a good school is not good, nor is it true that all you need is lexical knowledge, so somewhere you have to determine the proportion of the two. What this ratio is, it is determined by the given situation and the specific requirements. [[17.10]] What concerns the presumption referred to by the Member is that there is likely to be another Kálmán Széll plan, and the elements that Mr Széll highlighted: I was pleased to see this because this is what they are literally included in the higher education strategy. I think that the strategy for higher education adopted in 2014 was the first paper to set the goal of about what the proportion of graduates in Hungarian society should be. This is not an arbitrary number that we define from somewhere, but it can be derived from what this society requires, what technology requires, what the economy requires, and what some kind of number comes out of it. But no one ever said that anyone should be excluded from higher education, and we didn't even say that we didn't write it down, we did exactly the opposite, and we set out to have a degree somewhere on a social level. Today, in the 18-65-year-old population, this is 22 percent, compared to which thirty-some percent is significantly higher, we need to reach that point in some way. So they were published in the higher education strategy. The need to increase the share of private funds in higher education is also clearly stated in the strategy. We have talked about this several times, if you remember, there we have shown such a small figure that, at the moment, the state finances more than 50 percent of the higher education system. Healthy would be that the number should remain clearly, only the proportion of those that are, by the way, their own revenues, such as research and development, or don't give, god, donation, which is not very understandable in Hungary, is not at this moment, as in an American university, that should increase and increase. So that's what they're all about, which is what the funding part of the strategy is all about. Congressman Staudt, although he left, mentioned two very important points. One is the issue of ethnic education. We absolutely agree on this, and I think that the Government's intention here, also through regulation, and even with regard to ethnic schools, is very clear, it is a very valuable, very good form of institution. In addition to what is originally intended to preserve the identity and language of nationalities, the community will be preserved, it will indeed provide an opportunity for others to go along with it. For example, German is obviously a world language in this sense, it has such a function. I believe that the government strongly supports these schools, and I do not remember now that any such request of nationality would have been rejected if a national government wanted to take over a school; we did not support it only when the conditions of operation did not appear, but otherwise we fully support the principle itself. So we will certainly consider the amendments made by the Member. The other issue, on which I am not sure we agree, raised the issue of school security, the discipline of children under the age of ten, and in a specific way, I understand the underlying intention, of course, but he basically spoke of sacrifice and offender. I think that children under the age of 10 are really conscious, that if there is a victim in school, it is difficult to understand. And there aren't just cases that we're probably gonna have to be a little different about. So that's why we published this in the law. I believe that in these young students, the role of the school, the teacher, the family is more important than, by the way, to make them look like scapegoats and treat them differently. This can be abused, and that was the reason for this, by the way, that there are types of abuse that remove students from schools on the exact same basis, because we do not want to deal with them. That is why we want to regulate this. Here, Congresswoman Bangóné said that the KLIK had failed. After that, it was repeatedly said by you that a large part of the municipalities could not run their schools - did the municipalities fail? I don't think so. Here's a situation that we had to adapt to in some way. The fact that we brought the Klebelsberg Center closer to the schools, so 58 independent budgetary bodies were created as separate legal entities, which is very close to the school, is not it, Mr László Varga mentioned Miskolc as an example, Miskolc is the only city in the country that also represents a district centre. So I think it's as close as you can get to the schools in Miskolc. Not so much that he also mentioned that the community was being separated from the schools. I think that if the relationship between the community and the school is just that the municipality pays the cost of running, it's a bad relationship. That is exactly what we would like to confirm, which is why the Council of the District of Education appeared in the law; we would like to invite members of the community, including local governments, to discuss their school affairs. But not only local governments, including schools with other reservations, including churches, but also economic operators to which that school is important in that environment. Here, Mr Sándor Szabó mentioned some examples. We can provide examples of these from all sides, municipal operation, municipal reservation, on the other side. I think a great deal of these things have gone away. And the fact that we can't fit the digital board: there's a digital board - I'd rather put that in the funny category. Obviously, in a school, let's say the principal knows the part of the classroom where the board needs to be installed. But speaking of digital signs. Regarding the excellence or non-excellency of the municipal operation, after Mr Varga mentioned the Herman Ottó High School: I was at Herman Ottó High School, we had a good five-hour conversation, to understand what caused the problem there. I don't want to typize or generalize this; the problem was that the problem was that we couldn't decide who to paint the 20-inch strip behind the digital board installed by the maintainer, which is now an operating task, i.e. local government, or... [[Dr. László Varga: Was that the biggest problem?]] - at Herman Otto High School. And the problem was that a stage collapsed in the courtyard of Herman Otto High School, and no one fixed it; there were a number of other things. I just wanted to point out that if we talk about these problems, we can do this at this level, but that's probably not the point. One thing is certain, that shared responsibility is not good, which is why it was decided that the government would take over from 1 January. So the responsibility will be clear, so we know exactly who is responsible for painting this strip, and we know exactly who is responsible for having toilet paper and chalk in school, and we don't have to point fingers at each other. What's important is that the school works, and I don't see such a big obstacle to that right now. A brief information for the ladies and gentlemen of the Council: the taking-over of schools is specifically organised by experts from the district centers, at this moment we do not see a very big problem that we cannot handle. Local government companies continue to participate in this process, the reception of municipal employees is taking place. So I guess we really don't have to expect the school to change in any way from January 1st. If so, it's only in a positive direction. Having made relatively few comments about the proposal itself, I would therefore like to respond to a few more things. It's a question of textbooks. I ask you, Congressman, to tell us exactly how to learn from this, so where, which school did not get to the textbooks in a few weeks. Here was our feedback from schools, too, that some of the smaller publishers actually had textbooks that were a few weeks late. But this was not the public publisher, so it wasn't KELLO, it wasn't the OFI books, it was a few smaller publishers who couldn't deliver in time, they were very much private publishers; otherwise they were replaced within a few weeks. So I hope that didn't cause too much trouble. So it is not appropriate to combine the operation of KELLO and the public publisher, as those books must have been in the schools. And that they do not fall apart and that there is no need to erase it: I would like to say to Mrs Bangóné that in grade 1, 2 the textbooks remain with the students and do not need to be returned. And that's what we're gonna do to the others. So you don't have to erase it in grade 1, 2 otherwise that would probably be questionable. The 16-year term of education is something that will need to be analysed for the effect of this. In a number of countries in Europe, the age limit for compulsory education is 16 years. It's working, and it's 18 years. I think it is not about how much it is, but about what we really do to people who get out of school over 16 years old, how they get into the labour market, and this is a much more complex issue. I believe that, very briefly, these were the questions on which the ladies and gentlemen here represent did not respond, and I wanted to add that. Question of the NOKS, one more question. From 1 January - just in order to close this thing - all staff who assist in education, regardless of whether they work in a local government institution or a state-run institution, will benefit from a 10% wage increase, there is a budget coverage for this. [[Dr. László Varga: And who has not benefited from this?]] What? [[17.20]] Not out of the HUF 35,000 twice, because within a budget year, the municipality was supposed to farm, and we could not provide this resource. Other organizations have managed it. But from next January, everyone will benefit from this. Otherwise, there will be further changes and positive changes in the situation of educators in the coming period. They are very important elements of school education. OECD experience shows that they need to be built on to a much greater extent than we are doing now. At the moment there are 41,000 colleagues who work as educators, and one hundred and seventy-some thousand teachers who teach in public education institutions. It would be appropriate to improve this rate for those who support education. This is also part of the process that has been accelerated over the past period: the development of a new national core curriculum, the development of framework curricula, the settlement of methodological issues, and even teacher training and teacher further education are very important elements of these. So thank you for listening and for your support. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-10-122	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments could be tabled by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 1997 LXXXI on social security pensions. general debate on the bill amending laws and other laws until closure. Government referral T/12728. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mrs Katalin Veresné Novák, State Secretary of the Ministry of Human Resources, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
u2016-11-10-123	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, We are talking about a legislative amendment, which is about amending a number of laws. The reason for this is that from 1 January 2017 the cradle care system will be changed, and a completely new type of nursery care will be introduced in Hungary. This means that there will be significantly more flexible, multi-player and greater access care in Hungary than before. This law, which we adopted here in December last year in Parliament, will enter into force on 1 January, and we will have to amend it in connection with the entry into force of this law, as well as some technical amendments, and in this connection there are still some points that we have proposed to touch, which I will briefly describe to you. In the new nursery system, there will be four types of nursery compared to the current nursery. There will be traditional cradles, which are like larger group cradles, requiring greater physical and personnel resources in the current settlements; there will be minib cradles, family cradles and work cradles. These four nursery types will work from January 1st. It will be a major change that, while now only in settlements over 10 thousand people must be provided with nursery care, from 1 January 17 in all settlements where there are at least 40 children under three years of age, or where there are 5 children under three years of age whose parents require nursery care, the municipality will be obliged to implement this kindergarten care. The relevant legislation has been negotiated for a long time, as has the relevant Government Decree. This was accepted by the Parliament last year, his leg of law. In this context, we have introduced the pedagogical career to young children in nursery schools with a higher education degree. The government has recently decided how secondary nursery caregivers and nursery children will raise their wages from HUF 1.5 billion in the coming year. In this recent amendment of the law, we provide that, in addition to the crèches, in the new types of mini-cradle institutions, we are also granting young children the right to the 25 days of additional leave provided for in the Public Employee Act, which now belongs to workers in the crèche; and we also provide in this amendment that the law also provides for a similar period of time, so that 25 days of additional leave is granted by the law to those employed in the pedagogical profession. In addition, in relation to the cradle admission process, we are expanding the number of beneficiaries, as compared to the current system, we are now allowing children of large family parents and children who are considered protected children to benefit from the cradle admission procedure. In addition, in the case of children who are protected, we will introduce an additional discount or additional opportunity by imposing a fee which may be paid or requested after a day care in kindergarten, which may be determined by the local authorities, from now on or in the spirit of this law, if this law is passed by the National Assembly, from now on children who receive regular child protection benefits, who are permanently ill or disabled, who are large families, temporary care and children who are temporarily fostered or are in foster care and are in foster care, will have to be granted free of charge to children who are protected in kindergarten care, so they will not be charged a day care fee. In addition, adoption is also affected by this legislative amendment proposal. Here, too, we have looked at the practices of adoption, and we propose to amend the law taking into account comments from the profession, as well as comments from adoptive families. This is because we have already introduced the follow-up of adoptions, but at the same time the practice, or experience, and these comments have been received from the profession, that if the adoption is followed not immediately or shortly after adoption, but a little later, this will be more useful for both the adoptive family and the adopted child and for adoption professionals. So this means that the first follow-up exercise will take place no longer within two months, but will take place later, six months from now, and the second date will take place over one year and a year and a half from now. This means that the attention being paid to adoption specialists in following the fate of the adopted child will be extended and more assistance will be provided to the families concerned. It is also important that those who later require that this follow-up continue can continue to do so on a voluntary basis. This is also a new option that will be created by the current legislative amendment. What is also an additional amendment to the adoption, that in the event that the adoption of the child is terminated - so that in the case of an adopted child, this child is quasi-refunded by the adoptive parents because they have changed their mind, or such a practice is implemented, by the court or guardianship - this adoption should immediately be determined for the adoption of this child, in order to be able to get to the adoptive family at the earliest possible time. This change may affect 10 to 20 children a year. We would like to help these children get into a loving adoptive family as soon as possible. There are some amendments in the bill that serve customer-friendly administration and reduce administrative burden on pension insurance rules. Here comes the title of the bill. In fact, this is about reducing the administrative burden on those entitled to an increase in pensions by setting the increase in pensions for self-employed persons from the following year, not on request, but on their own initiative. This is one of these administrative burden reliefs. The second is that if the creditor has passed away without receiving the pension increase due or this pension increase, when the widow's pension is established, it is possible to apply for this pension increase and accordingly the widow's pension can already be established on the basis of this increased amount. Also such an facilitation, which seems to be administrative facilitation, can be a cash surplus for those concerned, that in the case of orphan care, the current legislation seems that, when the right to orphanage is established, it is only possible to claim this orphanage for 6 months. We now propose to amend this in the amending proposal so that, if the person concerned has submitted the orphanage, if this entitlement is found later, no matter how long it has elapsed between the two dates, the person concerned will receive the orphanage from the date of submission. Such an administrative amendment is also the fact that the wrongful pension is to be repaid only if it has been determined, paid or entered for reasons attributable to the person concerned. In order to ensure an accurate record of data reconciliation with those involved in the pension system, it has been ongoing and I believe that it has taken place smoothly, but in order to ensure that this data reconciliation guarantees continuous data security, customers will receive once again every two years notification of further entitlements achieved in the meantime, so that consultation with them will continue in this sense. [[17 .30]] I will not go through every detail, I believe that everyone has the opportunity to know the content of the bill amendment proposal. Perhaps I would like to point out one more point to facilitate the distribution of family allowances, and this point is that the decision of the court should not be solely the rule when it comes to the division of family allowances for divorced parents, but in this case, if the parents agree on how they would like to share the inclusion of family allowances, whether it is only the mother or the father, or the single parent who only wants the child as a divorced parent, or if they decide to receive the full family allowance in one amount, then the decision of the court should not overwrite it, so that the collective will of the parents should be fundamental in this respect. I consider these points to be the most important points in the proposal for an amendment of the law, and I also call on the fellow Members to support the legislative proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-10-124	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-11-10-125	Thank you very much for the word. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The Fidesz Group agrees with the bill that has just been tabled, and we agree with the aims that the bill aims at, and happens to help effective, customer-friendly application by clarifying the laws involved in the amendment. The proposal includes a small amendment to the law on the protection of children and the management of guardians in respect of the day-to-day care of children and adoption. With regard to the nursery fee, it must be clearly fixed, and we fully agree that the employer can, if he chooses to do so, take it on behalf of the employee; and it is also included in the bill that the number of children who benefit from the exemption from the payment of the fee for care be added to the protected children. The latter, i.e. children in protection and children in large-family households, will benefit from the adoption of the bill from the beginning of the next year's education. In addition, the dates for mandatory follow-up to adoption will be modified based on practical experience and feedback. Ladies and gentlemen, As you have read, and as the Secretary of State has said, this bill contains amendments to ten different laws. On behalf of this faction, I would like to point out, perhaps the most important ones, first of all, that, if we are to observe the amendment of the law on the status of civil servants, we are talking about the so-called minic crèches introduced as a new nursery facility from 1 January 2017 and in this regard. The mini-cradle is an institution providing day care services for children, which provides professional care and education in accordance with the national basic programme for day care in kindergartens, by persons with statutory professional qualifications, in groups with fewer numbers than in the classic nursery school, and under simpler personal, physical and operational conditions. The provisions of the Public Employee Act should also be extended to civil servants of the mini-cradle, which provides for additional leave for civil servants in crèches, educational and pedagogical institutes, higher education, and in the healthcare sector for teaching, teaching, teaching, teaching, teaching, teaching and teaching activities, this is 25 days a year. In the same way as determining the additional leave for civil servants employed in childcare facilities and juvenile facilities, it is necessary to arrange supplementary leave for teachers in nursery and mini-cradle. Another important law is the amendment of the law on the protection of children and the management of guardians. This is, as the secretary of state has explained in detail, the possibility of taking over the reimbursement fee by the employer in kindergarten. The Personal Income Tax Act qualifies free or reduced daycare services as exempt from non-money benefits. In order to ensure that this provision is applied, it is appropriate to lay down in the law the rules on remuneration that the employer may, in whole or in part, accept from the parent the payment of the daycare allowance at all daycare providers, institutions, daycare centers, mini-bedrooms, daycare centers and family crèches. Another important element of this amendment is the preference of the child of large-family parents and the children who are protected in the daycare school. We consider it absolutely justified and to be appreciated by the Fidesz faction to facilitate the employment and return of large-family parents to work and to work with them, with the targeted measure that their children should be given priority in the recruitment of children in crèches and mini-medics, provided, of course, that parents can demonstrate that they have an employment or employment relationship. In addition, we consider it absolutely justified and to be supported to give priority to children under protection during daycare admission. At the same time as being protected, the guardianship may oblige the parent to continue to use the care of the child during the day; to do so, I think it is an effective help if the nursery can actually take up their children in order to support parental education. The extension of the beneficiaries of free care in the cradle of the law amendment is another essential element of this bill. In the nursery, in the minib cradle, you can find a fee for care based on your maintenance decision. Care should be provided free of charge for children with regular child protection benefits, for children who are permanently ill or disabled, in families with three or more children, in temporary care, in foster homes or in children's homes with temporary effect, and for children in education. In the case of a protected child, it is also appropriate to extend the possibility of free of charge in the case of a nursery, mini-cradle, where a fee for care has been introduced. We know well, ladies and gentlemen, that this fee has not been introduced in all nurserys, as we have said, on the basis of your maintenance decision. The next important element is the amendment concerning the date of adoption follow-up, and we also support this amendment. Following adoption, the situation of the child and the development of his/her living conditions shall be monitored and assisted by a statutory organisation, a public benefit organisation following his/her adoption or a regional child protection professional service for a maximum period of five years from the date on which the decision authorising the adoption became effective. The law regulates the duration of voluntary follow-up within the five-year period at the request of the mandatory and the applicant for adoption. [[17.40]] In order to help adoptive families more effectively, it is considered appropriate to set the first date of mandatory follow-up instead of the previous two months in six months, according to the bill, and the second date in one and a half years instead of one year. It is also necessary to specify that, within these periods, adoptive persons may receive follow-up at any time on their request. The next proposal, which, I think, also accelerates and facilitates the situation of children who need adoption, is a statutory supplement to the rules on adoption. The current Child Protection Act does not provide that, in the event of the termination of the adoption of the child in education, the guardianship authority must always determine the adoption of the child. Therefore, there is a risk that, although the child may be adopted, the adoption of the child will not be promoted unless it is established. In view of this, it is clearly stated on the basis of the present bill that the guardianship authority should, in addition, review the need to maintain upbringing if the previous adoption has been terminated due to further adoption. The third major law, which we are amending with this bill, is the Social Insurance Pension Act. The administrative burden on pension beneficiaries will be reduced by the proposed amendment to the law, according to which, on the basis of the self-employed work carried out under the pension scheme, a pension increase would now be established ex officio if the law was adopted under the rules currently in force when this is to be initiated upon request. Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to pensions, the draft contains additional facilitations. According to the draft, the wrongful pension will no longer have to be repaid unless it can be established, paid or recruited by the person concerned. In view of this, the reimbursement and reimbursement will be fully re-regulated. This is linked to the provision of the draft which requires the immediate enforcement of decisions in certain cases. In the future, it is not possible to recover the benefit received in good faith and therefore the payment of the pension unduly paid should be terminated as soon as possible. I think, fellow Members, that with this amendment of the law, by clarifying this pension regulation, we can at last put an end to the complaint that, very often, the payment granted is actually taken up in good faith by that person and must then be repaid, there have been many problems with how he repays, with what he repays. I think that this offers a solution for these people. The amendment of the Health Act is also part of this legislative package. As of 1 January 2017, the day care system for children will be transformed, various types of institutions and services will appear in the framework of day care, as mentioned several times, but it may not hurt to repeat this: nursery, mini-cradle, family nursery and work nursery. The main health and food rules for new forms of supply should also be adapted to this amendment. This is what happens with the current amendment of the law. The last law to be highlighted is the amendment of the Family Support Act. On the basis of the proposed amendment contained in the draft, he may re-enter education benefits on a separate basis after the end of the entitlement to the schooling allowance in respect of the parent's child who is unable to continue his studies after the end of the schooling obligation, because he is unfortunately unable to do so in the light of the lack of self-service capacity for an independent lifestyle due to a disease or disability. The Ptk. As a result of its amendment in 2016, the content of the custody of separate parents changed, as parental custody also includes the possibility of caring for and educating the child. In judicial practice, there are indications that if parents divorce by mutual agreement and both parents retain parental custody, the court does not make a separate decision, nor does it necessarily approve an agreement on the periods in which parents care for their shared children in their own household. As a result, a court decision or settlement required so far for the distribution of the family allowance cannot always be held. Therefore, it is much more realistic to make arrangements for parents to share care, i.e. family allowances. This is also included in the present bill, which also concerns a number of other points which I have not mentioned, and which are, of course, greatly supported by the Fidesz Group. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-10-126	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Korózs, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2016-11-10-127	Dear House, Dear fellow Members, As time progresses, allow me to briefly, since you have presented the chapters in detail before me, I would simply like to address the things that deal with pension insurance matters, customer-friendly treatments. Given that all the rights and competences of the government offices are now in a department of that, I see that it is a little anachronism that a department is called a pension management body. My fellow Members, there is no official social security in Hungary and there is no National Pension Insurance DG. We should speak clearly, Madam State Secretary, the administrative system of pension insurance has been wiped out, perhaps because then it should be acknowledged that social security, its organisational and administrative system, has been abolished. In the personal data reconciliation it is not enough to have an extremely large number of backlogs, according to some information, the number of people in the capital with whom they could not arrange negotiations is nearly 100,000. They add another shovel to this that after the end of a given period, a further consultation should be carried out in two years' time. Although this can also be understood as an extension of the deadline, it is enough to complete the data reconciliations two years later. In the case of a given age group, it is worth adding that any step that means up-to-date is correct, but only if the administrative, professional and IT conditions are met. As far as I know, these are not given, none of the chapters; neither the IT background, nor the professional guard, nor the administration system. For the amendments to the data reconciliation procedure, it is worth noting that according to the impact assessment sheet for the draft previously published on the portfolio website 1.3 million people in 2017-18, 1.8 million people in 2019-20 and 2.3 million people in 21-22 are affected by data reconciliation. Well, I'm gonna lift my hat when they're done with this by the deadline. A so-called pension increase in addition to an old-age pension is classified as a customer-friendly measure. Mostly that's okay, the problem is that the rightholder may have to wait more than a year for the ex officio procedure, i.e. he doesn't get the raised amount in time, even if his supply is subsequently raised retroactively. It is also a question of whether the national tax office can actually provide verified, credible data to all of this. I would like to point out that we have tabled amendments to this chapter today. Summa summarum, with this salad law, the government gives further proof that it is incapable of transparent, traceable legislation. The Child Protection Act is being amended in parallel to at least three legislative proposals, some of the changes that have been made here concern the new nursery system that has already been adopted but has not yet entered into force. [[17.50]] This shows that, outside the concept, many details have been undeveloped before, as there are still shortcomings. I've prescribed some for myself. There is a lack of daycare workers and a lack of wage arrangements for young children. The proposed amendments to facilitate adoption procedures in the interests of children are not exhaustive, but at least they are favourable. The changes to family allowances should be supported, in particular the change in seriously ill or disabled children, according to which they are entitled to education after the age of 16 until the age of 18 if they are unable to live independently and lack the ability to self-service. Unfortunately, the family allowance has been unchanged for nine years, and this has been mentioned many times. The changes to the pension law are mainly administrative in nature, which sometimes seem to be favourable to customers, but the question is how the disintegrated social security and the broken administration system will be able to do all of this, as I referred to earlier. The change does not make any favourable decision for those receiving a lower pension. We tried twice last year, and I would like to predict that we will be presenting our motion again this year. The MSZP considers it particularly important to improve the day care of children, improve access to crèches, of course, to put parents to work, strengthen family support, and also to ensure that bureaucracy works as efficiently as possible. I anticipate that we are dissatisfied with the content of the proposal, and we will therefore submit amendments and make your support conditional on this. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-11-10-128	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Sebestyén, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-10-129	[[His mic's not working.]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I don't understand, especially since it's such an interesting situation... [[He's adjusting his microphone.]] It's okay now. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, First, I would like to express something that I do not understand; especially the irony of the situation is that one of the two successive items on the agenda today is the amendment of pension insurance and the other is the amendment of certain social and child protection laws. Compared to this, the first part dealt with in the pension insurance bill, the salad law, is nursery care, which is an institution network in the child protection system. I don't understand why you had to do this, why you didn't agree before. Now I know that it doesn't matter, because it amends salad law and several laws, but for the sake of elegance, it might have been worth combing over a little bit and discussing the parts relating to daycare and adoption at the next item. But that was just a parentheses note. As we have said many times about nursery care, we do not agree with the current system of fees. We believe that this needs to be changed, greatly reduced. In many cases, the parent had to consider the situation. He had to consider that if he wanted to return to the world of work, he wanted to take a job, with the increased nursery fee - although the institution or even the settlement now has freedom in this, so in many cases he had to consider that the increased fee would be such a loss that it is no longer worth returning to the world of work. Especially when talking about a person who has come from the social area with a secondary education, consider whether or not to pay that high fee for a salary of between 70 and 80 thousand forints. In many cases, unfortunately, it does not. By introducing the possibility of taking advantage of certain groups, it is even possible to agree in some form. One can agree with the fact that large families are part of this circle. It is even possible to agree that disadvantaged and cumulative disadvantaged children should be included in this category, as it is technically justified and understandable that in this group, in these children, it is important to be in a protective environment, to receive regular daily care, and even to say that the child protection system, the child protection service, should have these children in the interest of the child protection service. All of this can be understood. Only if you look at the current cradle seats, it won't be enough. I know there's a transformation process going on, the system's changing, but there's still going to be very little room space in the nursery. If we take into account the number of cradle seats and waiting lists when applying for day care, we can say that this measure will often push parents who want to use this care for their children to work. So all this can be a good and positive measure, but only if a drastic increase in the number of seats starts simultaneously, this measure can be supported or even promoted. The other is that protected children also have the advantage of taking a nursery. That's something to argue about, I think. I understand that this could also be a kind of motivation for the parents of a protected child to give the child to a nursery, but I think that they should not be motivated, but that they should be used some kind of coercive means to use such a child protection measure. I think that if a child has reached the point of having to be protected, then the child's danger can be felt there and I think that he should not be motivated by such advantages and not by an exemption from the fee, but by other means to use the nursery service. I would therefore argue with this in this form. I agree with changes in the follow-up to adoption. I believe that this is necessary in order to ensure the safety of adopted children, adequate social and health and psychological development. It is possible to rule out cases where the decision to adopt was not well founded or the decision was wrong. My colleague before me on the changes to the pension system said that most of them are administrative measures. It deals separately with the situation of those who work in addition to a pension, and clarifies a certain point that the period of employment that they have spent in addition to their pension is not included in the period of service. This can even be agreed with, but this opens up a question that has been repeatedly mentioned in the changes, that in certain professions the application of exclusion, that is, the worker has to decide whether to apply for his pension or his salary, the two have created very tragic conditions that cannot be paid together, and there are institutions or areas where this has not yet been remedied. I am thinking, in particular, that this has also affected people working in the social sector. We know very well, as I have just mentioned, what a wage situation there is in the social sector. We know very well that even at institutional level, his pension was higher for such a worker than he would have received as a wage. So it is clear that if he had to choose between two, he chose the pension instead. It was only here that we were in a situation where I said that this could have affected the heads of institutions, that in many cases the institution had no suitable successor, that there was no time to train even its successor, to train the person who would continue to perform the tasks of the institution. These were almost the most serious cases, but in many cases they lost irreplaceable staff not only at management level but also at other levels of staff. This too, in many cases, when we talk about the social sector, can be traced back to poor wage conditions, because in many places - living in an ugly word - almost those who are willing to work in the social field must be caught with a fishing net. Very few undertake to carry out this stressful work, both physically and mentally and psychologically, with such a standard of living. So, in many cases, these people have been chosen, and I have said before, because of the wage situation, their pension was in many cases higher than their wages, they have retired, and this has caused a lot of vacant status in the sector. There are areas, whether geographically or professionally, where they have not been able to make up for it to this day. I think that this was a hasty step, and I think that this exclusion should not have been done, or at least I say that there should have been more in the area, and not only in health care, but also in other areas where pensioners would have been exempt, who now have to choose. The fact that the increase becomes automatic and does not need to be applied for by these people, who are simultaneously working and receiving a pension, is to be welcomed, since it takes a very large administrative burden off these people's shoulders. [[18.00]] On the issue of raising pensions, I believe that, as on a number of other issues, radical changes are needed. We have a very different vision of the pension system than it does in today's system. The question is whether the scale of the pension increase really has anything to do with actual inflation. I think that it is very underfunded, and the percentage is always very low compared to what was actually inflation in that year, compared to the rate of inflation on the skin, not calculated on the basis of statistical data, but on the basis of inflation in everyday life. There is another injustice in the system today, and it is specifically that it determines a percentage of the pension increase, so that the same percentage is granted to a person with hundreds of thousands of pensions who could get a communist pension, and I would note that in parentheses, as a man who is trying to live his life out of a small pension and try to stay on his feet, I could also say that he is trying to stay alive. In this regard, our proposal is and we will do so when we enter the government, and that is the introduction of a broadband pension increase. So a person who has a small pension translated into forints should receive a higher amount than a person who has several hundred thousand forints' pensions, because it is a 1-2 percent increase, almost to say that those who have a very high pension, a high pension, a high pension, do not feel it, and we can also say that those who have a very small pension, in many cases it means only a few hundred forints to him, he does not feel it, nor does he change his standard of living, nor does he change his life situation to a very great extent. That is why we say that the only good solution would be that instead of the current centrally defined percentage pension increase, a fixed pension increase should be introduced, and this could help a lot of people living in small pensions. Thank you for listening. [[Dr. László György Lukács applauds.]]
u2016-11-10-130	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Bernadett Szél, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2016-11-10-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, I would like to start this speech there, and I will also talk about it for the next 15 minutes, that we have a problem with what is left out of this proposal, and that is what I will focus on. By the way, none of my fellow Members have spoken about this, although I think that we are facing a very important problem. I saw the version of the social debate, and this version contained discounts for single-parent families in nursery care, but these preferences and subsidies were carefully weeded out of the text by someone, even though I was looking forward to this speech being about finally hearing the proposals of the LMP by the government and finally being willing to take action for 800 thousand single-parent children. Now I have to say that you seem to understand that this is a problem, it was written in the first version, but then it was taken out of it, and now we are back in the Hungarian Parliament, and I have to say again that Fidesz-KDNP is forgetting practically every ten families. This is a very serious problem, we are talking about 800,000 children. I think that we can no longer delay giving these families all the help they need. They are single - parent families, so families where the child is raised by either the mother or the father alone. In the vast majority of cases, nine out of ten mothers remain alone with their children, and these women face a huge problem from morning to evening and from morning to morning. This is our chance to finally help these families, to finally help these mothers - including fathers - and these children. He was there in the social debate version, and then, boom, he's gone. I would like to criticise this very strongly, and I would like to ask the Government, Madam Secretary of State, Honourable Secretary of State, that this proposal be returned, written in it, that it was good what was written in it, that it should be done. I've made modifications by 4:00 p.m. like I was supposed to. I would like you to return to the thinking that was in the government's house when this law was in social consultation. What exactly are we talking about? The current Child Protection Act states that children who are entitled to regular child protection benefits, whose parents and legal representatives certify that they have an employment relationship or other employment relationship should be given priority in the recruitment of children in kindergartens. Now you would expand the number of preferred children, on the one hand, with children in a large family and children in protection. You're right, it's the right move, you have to do it, it's okay. What is wrong, and the problem is that there were children raised by single parents, too, they would have had an advantage, but this was removed from the bill. I want it back. 'Cause let's think together. What's the preference for? Why do we have to use this method? Obviously, we want to help families with high risk of poverty. This may be because of the high number of children, or because a seeker falls out, the mother or father, and working for children in such families is a much greater burden than the average. In single - parent families, it is very true that there is a huge problem to solve both parenting and parenting. I would also like to give you some statistics to support what I said earlier. According to all current statistics, we have looked at one of the highest poverty rates among single - parent families, namely twice the average. One in two families is at risk of poverty and social exclusion, and one in three single - parent families lives in poverty. So we are talking about such a group, and, as I said to you, if you look at children, there are 800,000 children living in a single-parent family in Hungary, practically five percent of the families are single parents. So if you say that you want to govern for the benefit of families, which, by the way, is a very appropriate commitment, then this must be done, and we cannot rule out a fifth of families from this thinking. With regard to single - parent families, I have to add that, in addition, the key issue here is that the child can go to the nursery, because if it does not, the mother or father will not be able to work, and the risk of poverty will increase, and these families will be in even more difficult situations. That is why I ask you, even though we know that there is little room for crèches, I know that you have promises for 2018 on this issue, although they would be fulfilled, I really do not say this from a party political point of view, but I really think it is very important that these are met, but we also need to see that nursery care is expensive. I would like to make this clear, because here is the other point that I have to mention, because in the original version, single-parent families were still included among those receiving free nursery care, and there were also single-parent families. There are regular child protection benefits, persistently ill or disabled, three or more children, i.e. those living in large families, temporary care, children placed with temporary effect in foster care or at a children's home, and children who are protected in addition to children who have been raised. That's okay, so there's nothing wrong with that. This is where we should write the children raised in the single - parent family, because we are also talking about 10-15 thousand forints if we are talking about the nursery prize, and these families are a huge burden. Let's give them that ease, I think they don't have to pay for it. What is important to me, and what I always say, is that it is not possible to distinguish between family and family on an ideological basis, nor can it be between a child and a child. I think that any thinking that does this results in wrong and wrong politics, and any thinking that accepts that there is no difference between a child and a child, and that is correct. [[18.10]] I'd like to share a surreal experience with you. I have tabled a rather nice package of amendments to protect single - parent families, and this has been put to a committee meeting. The formula was that a number of Fidesz-KDNP recognised the problem, said that yes, single - parent families are in a difficult situation and need to be helped, and then, when the concrete proposals were discussed, the reaction on the part of the governing parties was that it would lead to abuses and fading if some of the proposals that we are discussing here, for example, were to take place. So, in particular, I am with representatives in the Hungarian Parliament who think that parents are divorcing each other so that their children can enter the nursery for free before other children. I think it is absurd, that Hungarian families cannot be considered this way, and I think that anyone who makes such statements is very misguided about Hungarian families. We do not have that fellow Member here right now, but I think that you should urgently clarify how you think about Hungarian families, and you should not be stuck to such statements at any level. No, Hungarian families are not such as to divorce on paper in order to get their children into the nursery and not to have to pay 10-15 thousand forints, but rather it is lifelike to have a mass of mothers alone with the child, and then to solve the problems that are basically divided into two people or sometimes even more, because with family life there is a lot of responsibility and a lot of life to be solved. So I think we should be honest about this problem here. It's one of those things I'm talking about right now, which can't depend on who's sitting in the horseshoe, in which faction he's sitting, or sitting outside the faction. I think it should be stated to the Hungarian Parliament that there is a need for greater support for single-parent families, and I would also like to point out that there is a need for differentiated increases in the amount of allowances due to the rights of the person, i.e. the family bonus and the increase in the number of children, because they have not been raised in the eighth year, so now it is the ninth year that these subsidies remain unchanged. Let me refer to research here, too, so that this whole conversation or debate really doesn't go political. Research has shown that independent non-politicised people have calculated that universal family support under subject law has a very serious poverty reduction effect and play a very important role in reducing child poverty. From now on, I think these subsidies should be increased and higher support should be given to single-parent families in proportion to the burden. Now, if you are afraid of abuse, there is also a solution to that: then you have to carry out checks. For example, there is a way, and it is being applied now to go to the family and see if there really is a divorce, whether there really is a life situation on which you will receive the support. So, let's say with some confusion, not pouring out the baby with the bath water, not taking a new measure because we fear that it will be abused well, but also finding out the guarantees on how to really guarantee that these subsidies can reach the families responsible for it. I would also like to mention here that it is very important to take action in the setting and recovery of maintenance fees, which is a problem for many Hungarians. In this direction, the LMP has already made proposals, at the committee meeting we have received a reaction, this is also acknowledged by the governing parties that this is a problem. I ask you to use your apparatus to try to achieve results in some way. This current system cannot be maintained by the need to fight for alimony for parents who have remained with the child anyway. I think that you must also have a solution in this regard, or at least a proposal for a solution, and I and we are also trying to make progress in this matter. Once again, I wanted to talk to you about this part of the law, because you were in it, you missed it, and I don't think it's right that you missed it, and I think it's actually wrong. I'd like to ask you to write back the ones you took out. There was one comment at that committee meeting, and I can rely on the reason why the LMP proposals at that time were not supported, that the additional subsidies on the rights of the subjects were not supported and instead the need principle was enforced. However, I would like to point out that, for example, in large families, no one gets it very rightly, there is no need for it, but the big family gets it as a subject. I think it should be the same for the single parent to get it. By the way, most of them are in a very difficult situation, so I think that the social policy that would try to address this problem would be effective, because the numbers speak for themselves, and these families really deserve to be given the support they can use to stay above the water surface. So for my part, I ask why this is left out of the text of the law, why these points are not important for me and for many people, and I would also like to be assured that the Fidesz-KDNP, which declaredly began to govern for the benefit of families six years ago, at least this was government propaganda, will take measures to help single - parent families. I'm telling you, it's not a small number of people, according to the 2011 census, five of the families are single parents, so you can't be the government of, like, four fifths of the families, and one fifth of them forget. So, please, either don't use it to govern for the benefit of families, or then give the support to single - parent families. Thank you.
u2016-11-10-132	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the keynote speeches, and there are no independent Members in the Chamber, so they do not take part in the debate, no one has applied for a two-minute speech, no one has spoken in advance in writing. I will ask if anyone else wishes to speak on the agenda. [[No one's reporting. Lajos Korózs: We are hungry and sleepy!]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if she wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] The secretary of state says yes. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
u2016-11-10-133	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Dear House, Mr President, I'm trying to respond briefly to what's been said, because you're hungry and sleepy, and I think a lot of people have families who might be waiting for you at home, so I'm trying to help you with my own tools so that you can get everyone to your own family as quickly as possible. So I'm trying to respond to what's been said. To Mr Korózs's words: I would like to make it clear that the National Directorate-General for Pension Insurance is alive and well, working, not burying it or even not knowing what you are talking about, I do not know what you are thinking, and I would be happy to give you a factual description of these complaints or of these problems that have arisen in your view in relation to your operation. If there are any, I'd really appreciate it if you'd indicate these, and I don't know about this type of problem, which you've described. Also, the transformation that has assigned a number of tasks to government agencies is about bringing people closer to customer management, case management, being closer to people, being closer to them, dealing with certain matters, managing them. That is what this reorganisation was about, and I am not aware of what you have indicated in this regard, is what I wanted to say in this respect. As to the introduction of the crèche system or its comments on it, he complained here that there was no wage arrangement in this legislative package. It had to be dealt with with with another amendment of the law, so, in fact, the leg of the law is the same, and in the daycare workers, the graduates have been brought into the pedagogical career. This meant a gross average wage increase of HUF 80,000 per month, and I think that this is certainly a very important increase for you and a very important step to better appreciate young children with a higher education degree. We have set a HUF 1.5 billion in this year's budget for the wage arrangement of secondary nursery children, so there is a separate law on their wage planning since 1 January 2017. In September this year, and in September next, the salary of the higher education staff will increase again by 3.5-3 percent, at two paces, so I think we have managed to do a great deal to organise the wages of daycare workers. I would therefore add here that, in order to obtain a higher education degree, we have developed the possibility of obtaining higher education so that it is also available to those who are still working in a nursery and would acquire this qualification. More than two and a half times as many people have applied for this training this year, as in the previous year, there is much interest in this training. So, in order to pay for daycare workers, I think there's been quite a lot going on in the past. [[18.20]] As regards your comment on the family allowance, I know that you have tabled your amendments, which we will, of course, discuss. As regards this observation, I would also like to link this with the observation made by Mrs Bernadett Szél: I would like to say that since 2010, we have put HUF 1350 billion more into family support than before. Family support appropriations increased by 42.7 percent. I think that's a pretty significant step compared to what happened before. It is enough to think only of the family tax relief, which is available even to the public, can be enforced from their wages. Family tax relief also accounts for nearly HUF 200 billion in the budget at present. I think that there has been a significant increase in family support compared to what we inherited from you in the 2010 period. In response to the comments made by Mr Sebestyén Csító, I would like to make a clarification: the nursery care system is not part of the child protection care system, but part of the child welfare system, and that is why what he complained about at the beginning is not in its place. But let's get on top of that, I don't think that was the most important point for you. What I am missing is that you are making proposals now, but there is no amendment at all, so I do not know how serious the proposals that the Member has put forward are, since they did not appear at all in the form of an amendment. But, of course, I will also try to respond to what you have raised. But correct me if you have tabled an amendment, but you have not reached me. I understand that no amendment to this bill has been tabled. As far as nursery seats and access to nursery facilities are concerned: 100 billion HUF is available for the expansion of nursery- kindergarten spaces in the coming period. We are trying very significantly to improve the number of cradle seats. I also believe that in this respect we had a place to move on, a place to improve compared to 2010. I hope that we will get to the point that there can be no obstacles in any settlement to crèches, lack of nursery care for work or job search. That's what we want, that's what we want. As regards his comment on children being protected, there is this coercion as an instrument, so this is an opportunity to impose care in kindergartens as a quasi-binding instrument and to oblige a protected child to take part in daycare care. As for plan inflation, fact inflation, and you have used a phrase that I do not know how to justify, that if there is planning inflation, fact inflation and there is inflation, I find it difficult to grasp. We have introduced a system of pension increases in Hungary, which bases the pension increase on the plan's inflation, while at the same time guaranteeing that the rate of pension increase should not fall short of fact inflation. This has led to a real rise in pensions in the coming years, with more than 8 percent real rise in pensions in recent years, precisely because fact inflation has remained below the projected inflation rate. With the planned inflation, we raised pensions to an appropriate extent, and since fact inflation was lower than that, this pension increase remained with pensioners. And if there is a case - and this is the legislation currently laid down - that if fact inflation were to exceed the rate of inflation planned, we would, in turn, give this difference to pensioners. In this sense, there is definitely an inflation-following pension system in Hungary, and this has been an increase in real pensions of more than 8 percent in recent years. Finally, I would also like to respond to the comments made by the Member. I myself think that single - parent families should be dealt with, and I myself think that single - parent families are in a difficult situation in many cases. I think that it is not easy to raise children from a single income, and I also think that there is no way to distinguish between children and children, depending on whether she is now living in a single - parent family or being raised by more than one parent. I don't think that can be a basis for discrimination at any time. I think it's worth working on how we can support single - parent families. I have just yesterday, and not for the first time, but for many times, the president of the single-parent family representative's organization, and I also regularly consult with them. For example, I think it is a great achievement that the CSOK can also be used by those raising their children alone. I think this is a very serious opportunity for families who raise children alone. This type of aid may or may not have been, but this type of aid has not been before. I know that she has tabled an amendment in this regard, and we will look at how we will be able to deal with this during the hearing of the bill. Thank you very much. That's all I had to say. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-10-134	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for your answers. Dear Parliament, The amendments could be tabled by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill amending certain social and child protection laws until closure. Government referral T/12220. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Czibere, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-11-10-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, The transformation process in the field of social and child welfare services started in 2014 and the measures taken to make the supply system more transparent, efficient and fairer should continue to provide more targeted, efficient and efficient services. To this end, this autumn package will now be amended by the Social Law and the Child Protection Act and the Law on the care of persons with disabilities, and this bill will, in addition to these three great laws, introduce several technical amendments which are quantitatively explicit in 11 laws. I would just like to highlight the major elements of the bill, its main points of substance. First, I would like to set out the content of the social law and describe it. The government pays particular attention to people with disabilities and wants to provide them with tools and services to improve their lives. You also know that in 2011, the government adopted the so-called strategy for deinstitutionalisation or deinstitutionalisation, the first round of which was completed, and which resulted in people with disabilities living in large institutions living in a renewed living environment just at the beginning of this year. In this round, in the first round, this type of housing was solved and secured for almost 700 people with disabilities under a HUF 6 billion programme. The government places the continuation of the replacement of social institutions as a priority, and, after considering the first round as effective, we appreciate it, we believe that it is our responsibility to continue this programme only on a larger scale, so in the context of the deinstitutionalisation programme it will be possible for some 4,000 people with disabilities to live in a more viable housing form in the next few years under a programme of HUF 35 billion. One of the substantive amendments to the social law is to strengthen, encourage and speed up this process. [[18.30]] The amendment supports the implementation of the migration strategy, both by clarifying the rules on current benefits and by means of future measures that promote the gradual breakdown of the culture of institutionalisation, the institutional culture, and thus help the social integration of persons with disabilities. Based on the practical experience of replacing large numbers of homes for people with disabilities and the operation of newly funded housing services, the rules on subsidised housing have been reviewed. It is a significant change that, in addition to housing services, case management and other services that support participation in the life of society, the service elements are defined, which are selected on the basis of the results of the complex needs assessment. The nine services elements under the current new, planned regulation - such as supervision, catering, care, skills development, advice, pedagogical assistance, therapeutic pedagogical assistance, transport and domestic assistance - cover a broad range of possible activities. In order to facilitate the application of the law, it will also be specified which basic services can be provided for each service element. The aim, in line with the migration strategy, is to ensure that those waiting for long-term housing services go no further towards the institutional, not the boarding system, but towards the housing type services that are being renewed with the current regulation. In order to allow for this shift, the bill provides that, at the same time as the basic examination carried out prior to placement in the home of persons with disabilities, a complex needs assessment of the claimant should be carried out and the claimant should be informed of the possibility of using the subsidised housing. A further change is the need to carry out a basic assessment of people with disabilities prior to the use of assisted housing, in addition to the complex need assessment, in order to ensure that only those in the target group of assisted housing actually benefit from this service. It is also the issue and proposal to amend the strategy and to ensure consistency with the strategy, and to increase the number of seats created in the future, the new requirement is that if the institution moves from more than 50 seats to supported housing, it cannot be restocked at the same time and at the same time. The number of institutional seats should be reduced by this amount, simply so that institutionalisation, the institutional structure, cannot be restored. This is an important guarantee element in ensuring that the institutional structure is dismantled and not rebuilt. A new element is the monthly supply of subsidised housing, which will allow the management of assistance, for example through individual purchases. So much for foster housing. The next issue is the temporary accommodation of homeless people, as its service content is differentiated. In the future, homeless people who do not need high-intensity social assistance will also be provided with housing and housing services alone, but cannot afford market-type housing from their own resources. The housing service will be provided on its own, within the building of the institution and in external spaces. At present, this is only possible for rehabilitation institutions to be able to provide aftercare in external spaces, where they no longer provide care within the institutional framework, but by monitoring those living there they still help to deal with problems associated with self-living. Based on the experience of homelessness, the proposal creates the legal possibility of creating a similar form of housing for the temporary housing of homeless people. In order to make the use of profiles and services more flexible, the longer-term objective is to ensure that temporary forms of service are continuously and progressively removed from the social services system as a separate type of service. A transitional institution, as a type of institution, as a form of supply, will be terminated and transformed taking into account acquired rights of beneficiaries, and who wishes to use a temporary form of housing, it will be possible to do so by means of a fixed-term agreement within the framework of residential accommodation arrangements. Therefore, the introduction of temporary forms of service does not leave the beneficiaries unattended. By 2023, institutions, persons with disabilities, psychiatric patients and addicts should be transformed into rehabilitation institutions or assisted housing or elderly homes. This transformation will be supported by a HUF 3.8 billion EU resource and programme in the framework of the proposal for the modernisation of transitional and rehabilitation institutions. The next part concerns home assistance. In 2014, we started to adapt the regulation of home assistance in order to address the serious distortions in the field and to create more targeted differentiation and better adapted to the needs of older people. This affected the range of care activities, including the point limits and eligibility criteria. These amendments continued from January 2016 with the development of two areas of activity within home assistance - this particular differentiation. One is social assistance, which includes activities to meet a lower level of needs and can be provided without qualifications; the other is personal care, where a qualified home care provider can carry out care activities. This bill further refines the system by eliminating the number of hours; this is a very, very old request from the profession. The second is to enable the provision of a self-cost-based service so that it does not make it impossible or impossible to supply the right holders. The requirement for the provision of clock-based services will cease, and the regulation will no longer limit the daily duration of home assistance. The purpose of the amendment is to provide a flexible service tailored to the needs of the recipient. The establishment of the right to service, including social assistance and the classification of personal care into activity categories, will continue to be the basis of the score established in the assessment of the need and the need for care, but without determining the number of hours. At the same time, the clock-based supply aspect will cease at the same time as entering the nursing home. From now on, the dividing line between the basic service and the boarding allowance will not be determined by the number of hours, not adjusted to the need for care exceeding or not exceeding 4 hours, but by the level of care provision established according to and on the basis of the assessment data sheet. [[18.40]] As far west of us, in many countries of Europe, the content and financing of the service are linked to precisely such levels of self-sufficiency. In the case of home assistance services, we will now be able to provide home assistance to persons who do not have a need for care, on a market basis, without State aid, but on two conditions, the professional conditions must be met if the claimant undertakes to pay the cost, and it is also an important condition that this service undertaken, as I said, does not jeopardise the supply of eligible older people, and does not detract resources and capacities from it. The next important issue is the issue of parenting and its inclusion in the social law after the Constitution and the Fundamental Law and the Civil Code. Providing for elderly or deprived family members is a moral principle, but it is also enshrined in the Fundamental Law. The Hungarian state provides security to its elderly or needy citizens, but as well as the responsibility of raising children, the care of an elderly parent cannot be fully taken over by the state, the family was and remains the main responsible person. In history, there was no culture, society, that considered caring for elderly parents primarily not as a task for families. The lack of multigenerational families cannot change this moral obligation. It is simply not fair, fair, and it cannot be accepted that a person who has legal and moral responsibilities would have an obligation to help the father and mother who raised him and who would have enough income to help them in their old age would have to pay for the care of his powerless, needy parents to other members of society. That's not acceptable. Out of the 28 Member States of the European Union, legal standards regulate maintenance obligations in 18 Member States. This bill contains provisions to strengthen the responsibility of adult children for the care of their parents in need of care. The Fundamental Law requires that adult children be obliged to care for their parents in need. According to the Law on the Protection of Families, adult children have a special statutory obligation to a parent who cannot support himself without his own fault. The Ptk. the general rules of kinship include, inter alia, the conditions for kinship, the determination of the non-deservable status of maintenance workers, the order of maintenance obligations, the level of maintenance, the manner in which it is maintained, and the rules of the maintenance lawsuit. According to this bill, if the beneficiary's income or assets do not cover the institutional fee or any other person voluntarily undertook to pay it, the head of the institution may initiate the conclusion of an agreement with the children of the legal age of the beneficiary with a view to paying the fee difference between the institutional fee and the personal fee. If this agreement is not reached, reimbursement of the fee difference may be requested by judicial means from the insured adult child. In this case, the court is Ptk. under the rules governing kinship, a child who is obliged and capable of maintenance may, for the future, be obliged, in proportion to his maintenance obligation and ability, to pay the fee difference. The court shall examine all the circumstances necessary for the assessment of the state of maintenance and the ability to hold. To do so, you have experience in maintenance proceedings, expertise and a legal organisational background to ensure that family income relationships are properly explored. Parentage, therefore, as a fair legal institution, should not, of course, endanger the livelihood of the adult child or his family. The costs of care can be claimed only from those who are able to assist the parent on the basis of his or her financial situation. Nor is it an obligation to support a parent who threatens to keep his own or children. If the maintenance obligation and ability of the child is not established, the current rules apply to the calculation of the fee, i.e. 80% of the income received. The government is committed to creating a chance for people with disabilities, disabilities or health disabilities to join the labour market, as participation in employment and participation in the primary labour market can truly guarantee and strengthen the social integration of people with disabilities. According to KSH data, almost 200,000 people with disabilities, health-damaged or altered working conditions are working in supported employment and an open labour market, thanks to a renewed support system in recent years. Five years ago, the employment rate among people with disabilities was about 15-16-17 percent, while we are now above 25 percent. It is necessary to try to give this opportunity to more people who have changed their ability to work. We must try to reach them, activate, train, prepare and involve them in employment, so that the labour demand for them can be met, so that as many people with disabilities have a job income. Deinstitutionalisation and deinstitutionalisation cannot be effective if the employment opportunities of those affected by the replacement are not improved. These efforts will be supported by the transformation of social employment and the introduction of development employment from 1 April 2017. More emphasis is placed on improving the skills and skills of the person employed in development employment. Developer employment will function as social services. Several social service providers and institutions can set up developing employers' organisations together, jointly organising the employment of those who receive the benefits they provide. A disabled psychiatric patient, addicted, homeless person who uses community care, support services or daytime care, or institutional care, rehabilitation services, assisted housing or housing accommodation, may receive an improvement employment until the retirement age is reached. If the aim of developing employment is to maintain self-employed skills, to prepare for the open labour market, employment is carried out in fixed-term employment under the Labour Code. If the aim is to restore the individual's physical and mental abilities and skills related to work, the person concerned shall carry out development activities on the basis of a development contract under the rules laid down by the social law. According to the bill, working time may not exceed 8 hours a day, 40 hours a week, or up to 6 hours a day in the case of a development contract, or 30 hours a week in the case of employment. According to the individual's health condition, the developer can be employed in a monthly working time frame. [[18.50]] The financing of development employment will take the form of a tender. The aid may be used by the employer for development employment fees, wage payments, personal, material expenses, acquisition of fixed assets and other costs. The next part is the amendment of the Child Protection Act. The government's primary social policy objective is to create opportunities and guarantee children's rights of protection guaranteed by the Fundamental Law. The aim is to provide much more coherent, efficient and targeted assistance to families and child protection professionals who help them. In addition, the goal is to provide children with the goods and services needed for their physical, spiritual, spiritual, moral development as early as possible. Following these principles, we are now proposing amendments to the Child Protection Act. As regards basic child welfare benefits, it is a significant step forward that, from 1 January 2018, temporary homes for families will be able to create external seats, where families in need can benefit from reduced housing and social assistance. In addition to creating safe housing, the aim is to help families in their temporary homes to continue their supply system as successfully and effectively as possible and to lead them out of the care system through resocialisation. The other topic is the child protection warning system, which is the cornerstone of our preventive child protection. This is of particular importance, it has a prominent role to play in promoting the raising of children in the blood family, in recognising and detecting problems as quickly as possible. That is why it has become justified and that is why we are proposing a multi-level signalling system. From 1 January 2016 we have already defined the local and district level of the signalling system, and now the county and national level will be established, at county level we will establish and define tasks for government offices and at national level for DG Social and Child Protection. As regards child protection, since the entry into force of the law, the law ensures that children receiving child protection care are primarily placed in foster care, including for children with disabilities. In recent years, the rate of placement in foster care of children with disabilities receiving special care for children has been steadily increasing, and this is welcome. The practice shows that the proportion of children with disabilities in foster care continues to increase as a result of the introduction of inclusive parental care. However, the child's condition may be such as to prevent him from being held liable by a foster parent, only within an institutional framework, and it is therefore necessary to clarify that accommodation with the host parent may be waived if the permanently ill, severely disabled child is not placed in the care of the child, or because of his condition, it is not possible to do so. The bill also provides for the possibility of an organisationally independent and independent child protection licence, providing a guarantee to eliminate the obstacles arising from the current organisational structure and to carry out the full exercise of children's rights. The amendment highlights the role of regional child protection agencies in the field of child protection and organises them in separate professional units. This makes it feasible to eliminate conflicts of interest, role disturbances, decision-making constraints that often slow down the placement of children in the system, thus speeding up the home-care of children. The bill also introduces the legal institution of the deputy child protection guardianship, which aims to ensure the continued legal representation of children under child protection. It is appropriate to establish the institution of the deputy child protection guardianship for cases requiring immediate action if the child protection guardian is unable to act because of absence or other obstacles, given that it is more frequent than children raised in the family that the child protection guardian has to take immediate action. It is of guarantee importance that the assistant child protection guardianship tasks are carried out only by doing so, so that the child protection guardian employed by the regional child protection services can provide them with no other job professionals in order to be professional. The renewal of children's homes and the breakdown of large children's homes will be completed in the Hungarian child protection system by 2019. The government will spend 4.2 billion forints on this. We consider it important that foster care is largely provided for children. This requires special qualifications for the foster family in order to obtain this. This training should be free of charge for foster parents. We would like to extend the time limit for obtaining the qualifications necessary for the employment of foster parents until 31 December 2018. Finally, a sentence amending the Law on the care of persons with disabilities. This amendment would like to address the situation of those who terminated their agreement before 1 January 2012 for the purpose of obtaining a retirement service in the context of the restructuring of the supply system before 26 July 2012. By adapting the system of care for persons with disabilities, benefits were transferred from the pension scheme to the cash benefits of health insurance, so the purchase of service and care under the agreement is no longer possible, and although the amendment of the law in force as of 26 July 2012 allowed again to take into account the periods of service acquired under previous agreements, but only if the agreement was concluded before 31 December 2011. Therefore, those who terminated their agreement but were not entitled to benefits could no longer complete the period of service acquired by concluding a new agreement. This is the problem that we want to address with this amendment. Mr President, Dear House, Thank you very much for your attention, and I would ask you very much to support the legislative amendment proposal. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-10-136	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr Sándor Kovács, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-10-137	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the amendments to the law before us, which we have said in the slogan only to the salad law, are primarily about refining it, making it flexible, making it fair, more efficient, more transparent, and I think that perhaps, by projecting some opposition points, parenting will generate the biggest debate between us. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: I already have it!]] That's basically what we think. In view of the rest, it should be said that, in the case of assisted housing forms, which Mr. State Secretary has also discussed in detail, allow me to talk about our personal encounter with an ex-classmate, who is the director of the merchandising nursing home. In my constituency, an oxith earring, three subsidised housing institutions were created. We talked, I had the legislative referral at the time, and my friend Bálint also said that the type of service that is new is becoming more clear with the name of the service elements, because in my time - as head of the institution - another type of service, the housing home, was widespread, and this is now changing in the form of subsidised housing and in the case of people with disabilities. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] I think that this detachment programme has come to a very important point in social integration, the integration of a given settlement into society, but at the same time it regulates the resources and access to basic services, such as support services and other basic Community services, and also, in terms of fees and monthly supplies, the financial resources that make the problems of clients and the head of the institution clear. [[19.00]] On home assistance, I think that my fellow Members and I also talked about it in the Social Committee at the time that the calculation of the type of time care time, which is basically the determination of the number of staff - remembering that 9 persons had become the person to change the need for care - It caused dilemmas about how many hours you can take care of. It is also very important that the backhand of this amendment is also valid, because if the head of the institution carries out the necessary examination in an institutional setting, the client will basically be entitled to home assistance immediately, without having to carry out the home assistance test. The Secretary of State spoke in detail about the legislation on temporary accommodation for homeless persons. Here it is very important to regulate the external space and the cost of the accommodation, where, again, I think it is very important what percentage of your income you have to pay. I think that even with the deadline for 2023, the legislative amendment to care homes for people with disabilities, to the temporary home for psychiatric patients, to anticipate and support rehabilitation and assisted housing everywhere. The temporary home of addicts is also intended for rehabilitation and assisted housing by the law until 2023. Allow me to bring some personal experience into social employment, as many have also worked in this institution, in a residential institution in the type of employment that prepares for social employment and is work rehabilitation, and I think that it really is the simplification of development employment when we develop the individual skills and skills of the client, but at the same time we can talk about the rehabilitation employment of those with disabilities, so I think that between old social employment and new development employment and work rehabilitation employment it will allow for a kind of harmony, interoperability and clarification, which will take the form of a tender, and, if I understand correctly, the law will extend these opportunities until 31 March 2017. Parenthood. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Na!]] A fundamental difference of opinion, I think, is the world of family policy and social policy, aid policy and labour policy, if we point out this policy of family and parenting - my fellow Member Korózs scratches his head - yes, because the fundamental difference is also in the actions of the civil government on family policy and in the aid policy between the Socialist Party and Fidesz. I think that by including this kind of family responsibility in the Constitution, it is not to be confused with the fact that the law of the needy elderly people in the civil code, as the Secretary of State said, wishes to treat the concept of kinship from the Constitution, and the parent can bring a lawsuit in order to see why his rich child does not support, why he does not promote his quality of life. I think that if we go beyond institutionalisation and the possibility of State involvement, then we must speak frankly about the fact that a wealthy, non-life-threatening family member can be obliged to do so, despite the fact that the client does not suffer any disadvantage in institutional placement, the institutional placement cannot go on with this, and until then the general rule, called the 80 per cent rule, can be established, which can establish up to 80 per cent of his income in terms of the difference between institutional status, institutional remuneration and personal remuneration. Jumping to the Child Protection Act a little bit, I think that refining the signalling system by introducing the district level and national level will provide the kind of uniform education and training for the SZGYF, the Directorate-General for Social Affairs and Children's Protection, in which it can create the kind of methodology and coordinating role that, so far, may cover a national level, a national methodological deficit. We talked about the elimination of temporary accommodations by the temporary home of the families in the construction of outboard seats. This extravagant space has already come into contact with social services, including homelessness. I think it is an opportunity with which not in the classic institutional system, but with a kind of external space and service. Here, too, the law regulates the amount for which, if you do not use social assistance, housing costs should be regarded as the basis for the personal fee. I believe in the situation of child protection guardians that, in recent times, the lack of the guardian's job may be clearly addressed, stressing that only guardians in the system can be involved in the role of replacement. I think we can further detail the legislative proposal. For my part, and for the Fidesz faction, I can assure the Ministry of our support, and I also ask the opposition to support the proposal. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-10-138	Thank you, Congressman Kovács. I now give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2016-11-10-139	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Well, I'll start with parenting. I would like to ask you a lot of questions, Mr. Secretary. The Fundamental Law, which you refer to, wasn't dared to refer it to a referendum at the time. You can totally agree with what's in the Fundamental Law, that it's the parent's duty to support the child and the child's duty to support the parent, that's how a normal person thinks. Now, what we feared was why this sentence would be included in the Fundamental Law. Referring to the Fundamental Law... Mr State Secretary, tell me specifically that you want to withdraw from certain supply systems because you don't want to pay. Secretary of State, we shouldn't have stolen 3000 billion forints of pension savings, pension fund money, and maybe then we'd have something to take care of our parents later, but we shouldn't have stolen the money first, and then we'd have to claim that the child has an obligation to support his parent and the parent's child. Secretary of State, I'm asking questions. One parent has four children, one of the four children is extremely rich, but legally he has no income because he has a minimum wage in his business. One of the other four children, one of the married couples, one of whom is a teacher, the other is a civil servant, there's a little more, they still have some side jobs, and they earn relatively good money - so they're gonna pay for parenting? Because how are you going to do that, Mr. Secretary, to prove that the other one has his legal income? [[Károly Czibere: I won't do it!]] Or the court. Secretary of State, you've been saying it's a family-friendly government for years. What kind of wedge are they gonna beat between families with lawsuits like that? Well, have you thought about this law? ! And it's ridiculous that, Thursday night at 7:00 p.m., when the dog doesn't watch this parliamentary broadcast - they don't watch it anyway, because they can't - they put such a far-reaching amendment in a salad law. How can they even think about it, and I don't think it's worked out at all? Yeah, and then the families will sue in Hungary and they'll go to court. You know who's gonna benefit? The state and the lawyers, no one else in this country. They'll turn families against each other. And how are they going to prove that there are, say, families where the father or mother wasn't such a good parent, but he or a third person is going to sue, how are they going to prove that he didn't fulfill his parental obligation, Mr. Secretary? ! Then you have to say that the state will withdraw from this system because it doesn't want to spend money on it, and then there will be something, just to tell the truth. [[19.10]] Secretary of State, there has been a lot of things in the walls of this Parliament, it has to be said here today, it concerns the social law, it was your fellow State Secretary who said that there are homeless people in Hungary - Minister of State Nitra said - because they like to live on the streets. Well, that's what he said, Mr. Secretary. That's what he said. [[Károly Czibere: That is not what was said!]] And there's been a lot of things about children starving because they love it because it's a way of life. Mr. Secretary, you're going through a very big hornet's nest, and I think the worst part is that families are going to be in a mess here, families are going to sue, families are going to get mad at each other, and there is a plan of legislation that is even inconsiderate in a salad law. I said, "Thursday night, well hidden, so that no one can hear or notice what is happening inside the walls of Parliament." Some comments on the amendment of the law. The fact that they also allow home care for those who are not in need of care, if they pay the full fee, raises professional questions, Mr. Secretary of State. While this amendment broadens access, it is suggested how much it will burden care services, who will be more likely to look after people who are less needy but who can pay the full amount of care. It's called a levy, which is another gap in the market. It is also a question of how this is appropriate for a basic social service. Although it is also true that with the earlier tightening of eligibility rules, people who had previously been included in this care system are not considered to have a need for care. It is unclear why the maximum number of people who can be accommodated in the case of home care or personal care should be determined. It is also unclear why 35 thousand people are being restricted when, according to the latest social statistics yearbook of the HCSO, a total of 133 thousand people were provided in 2014. What about 100,000 people, Mr. Secretary? Or only those who can afford it get it, those who can't afford it, and those who can't afford it, they'll have to pay for the parenting! It is not clear how to understand the limit of 35 000 people, because it is justified that this applies only to providers affected by growth and only to those requiring personal care. At the same time, we do not know how many of the recipients are at present. Meanwhile, by amending next year's budget law, which is at the end of the proposal, the justification goes beautifully as to how socially insensitive this government is, since it itself recognises that freezing the capacity for assistance would be precisely what would be necessary for those seeking high demand out of care. The question is how this will be reduced by the amendment. The social diagnosis has already been heard in a number of answers, Mr Secretary, but it is now clear that this is not even anywhere. Its planned introduction will also be postponed by one year from 2017. The explanatory statement states:. Before the introduction of a social diagnosis, it is necessary to model it in practice and prepare law enforcement personnel. What will this be about, Mr. Secretary? It seems quite drastic that a basic service can be terminated immediately, and it does not have to wait 15 days if the entitlement is terminated by reason of a legislative amendment. It is true that, in the case of home assistance, there is no need to review those who have already received it because of the current amendment, only in the upcoming amendment, but this will still affect those who receive it later. The technical explanation for the termination of temporary accommodation benefits does not seem to be very elaborate. The proposal justifies this: in order to make the use of profiles and services more flexible, it was designed as a longer-term objective to remove temporary forms of service from the social benefits system as a separate type of service. But whose part of all this was formulated is not clear, nor is it clear what makes the system more flexible. It is not clear why, in the case of a temporary shelter for homeless people, the fee can reach 60% of the income of the affected person and only 40% of the family's temporary home. It is interesting that children's homes do not narrow the target group compared to holiday meals, but are enlarged by the fact that children who are entitled to regular child protection benefits and their parents will be members of the target group instead of disadvantaged children with multiple disadvantages. It is unclear what they mean by the fact that, in the future, the child welfare service will even personally assist in the voluntary use of other basic child welfare benefits in order to eliminate the risk. The introduction of the assistant child protection guardian's institution is a clear recognition that the recently introduced child protection system in its present form was neither thought-out nor operational. The question is whether 38 child protection guardians for tens of thousands of children or even more affected children will be sufficient instead of 19 so far, or if this is just another patch on the crackling child protection system. The question is how the data protection ombudsman felt that in the future the child protection system actors would be entitled to handle children's photographs, moving pictures of them, as well as their data on their disadvantaged, cumulative disadvantage. It is amazing that in November 2016 they realize that the education required for foster parents, the education created in 2014, which caused a great scandal in Hungary, has not started until today, and therefore the deadline is extended by two years. It is a question of where the money that has been spent so far has gone, and how the mainstream foster parents have been able to work for years without proper and necessary qualifications. Is this really in the interests of children? What we can see in this salad law is that the government is once again reducing social benefits. With this, elderly, sick and disabled people in need are excluded from basic services and other accommodation benefits. With the introduction of parenting based on the Fundamental Law, the government finally admits that it has given up its responsibilities for older people, everyone should rely only on themselves or on their family. Fidesz is creating a state of misdemeanor instead of a welfare state. Despite some positive changes to the child protection system, there are no real breakthroughs, especially those that provide the resources needed for the effective functioning of the child protection system and ensure the appreciation of professionals. Several amendments are intended to fire only the damage caused by the amok run over the last six years. At the same time, certain provisions are forced to be amended every six months, without a real concept. The government has no idea what should be done to ensure that no child in Hungary lives in poverty, so that no one in need is left out of social benefits. There are points in the salad law, as I said in my criticism, which could be supported, but, Mr Secretary, they always put in amendments that will cause a great deal of social resistance. I think that we should consider, above all, the institution of parenting. Really, Mr. Secretary, just assure us that families won't go to each other because of this, there won't be any lawsuits that, Mr. Secretary, I don't have to say why they're running. How will a third person launch a lawsuit, or will only the parent sue to support it? Will a third person, district office, also be able to enter into a holding contract with an old man, and then decide that that income is not enough for him and collect it on the children? Is this going to come up, Mr. Secretary? What's gonna happen in this country? I know, Mr. Secretary, he's wagging his head right now. We're just asking life-like questions. Lifelike questions, and let us know that families will not go to each other just because they want to introduce a failed law. I would add that it's perfectly all right that a parent's duty is to raise a child, and a child, if he can, has to take care of his parents. I think that the majority of Hungarian families think so. It's just, Mr. Secretary, it takes a decent living, proper social security, and then everything's fine. We can support our children and take care of our parents. [[19.20]] It's just that most of that little pension is still being taken care of by today's grandparents. So I am very afraid of this parenting institution, and I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply to what he will answer our questions. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-11-10-140	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the speaker announced in advance, Mr Cutó Sebestyén, Jobbik.
u2016-11-10-141	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I'll try to go through the main questions. The first is changes in homeless care. I'm glad that the government finally found out what a lot of civil society organisations, whether in the country or in the capital, have already found out, or have found out that homeless people's camps cannot be treated in the same way. That's what we've been saying for a long time. We, too, have long advocated the need to renew the system of homeless care. We would make much more drastic changes, but let us say that this may be a good first step, because now I may hear back from Bangóné Borbély Ildikó, but we do have to classify homeless people. There are those who have only been short-term without housing; for them a very minimal supply is sufficient. There are people who, for example, may be mentioned in connection with the amendment of the law, who can be traced back to the world of work, or to the world of providing their own housing, with a small amount of help, with an extraterrestrial space or temporary accommodation, and they must be said, although I believe that this is the least part of it, if we look at the camp of the homeless in all numbers, we called them that the street dwellers, who are such as to live on the streets, are already socialized with homelessness, and they are the ones who cannot even be forced into homeless facilities. Good, of course, that's what illegal, life-style stays in public areas were born for. This was neither a solution nor a solution, but we do have to admit that there is a layer of people who refuse to participate in institutional care, and there may already be people at the end of a reverse socialisation process who would not find their place under normal housing conditions. Another question is that with health, social and other help, we may still be able to do something about it, but we still have to do it as a first step to classify people without a roof, and to do so, I think that what is in this law is a first and a good step. Regarding home assistance: it was time to classify here too. It was also time to eliminate clock-based calculations. We know very well what situations this has caused at the end of benefits. Either it caused situations where some people were left out of care or caused situations where the head of the institution had to play tricks on numbers, names, carers, and at the time when the inspector appeared at the institution during an administrative check, he had to consider taking the necessary steps for illegal operation or turning a blind eye because he knew very well that the system was not sustainable. This is a step to change this, and we will see how the implementing regulation will provide for the detailed rules. I trust you will build a useful and good system. It can even be agreed that we should split up those who need a professional caregiver because they need special care within the framework of home assistance and define a range of those who do not need to be cared for by people with adequate qualifications, almost only mental care is needed. Here I would like to draw attention to a fear, a concern. There are reports that this type of care is largely intended to be provided by public workers. I would like to draw your attention to the danger of this, especially in the region of North-East Hungary, where we know very well what people will be included in the public work programme in many cases, and as ladies they may try to involve them in home assistance, when many of you, I say that not only should they be sent to work or work for the elderly, but should be kept as far away from older people as possible. I would like to draw attention to the dangers of this, so that it does not become a member of the ageing family, who is a public worker and who, in the context of home assistance, receives mental care for an unprotected, single elderly person. The law on subsidised housing or the amendment was here before Parliament a long time ago. Compared to what I think you're doing, you're running a little bit behind schedule. By the way, I found a very good element in this amendment. This is that the head of the institution must draw the client and the relatives' attention at reception to the possibility of assisted housing. I trust that, since the institution is already preceded by a survey, the head of the institution is able not only to inform the relatives about the subsidised housing or the prospective client, but also to determine, on the basis of the survey, what other services and care or assistance the recipient needs within the assisted housing. We'll see what it's gonna do. I trust that the number of people using assisted housing will increase rapidly, because I see that subsidised housing is the form that best helps - especially if it is surrounded by adequate safety nets and suitable support and assistance professionals - either by reintegration or by independent living or by the emergence of employment. And while we're at work, I'd like to say a few words about the development session. This is another issue in which, in many cases, homes that provide or care for people with disabilities had to do tricks in the past. They had to play tricks on what category they would classify as productive work with their recipients now; if they could earn income from it, how would they account for the money they had been treated or classified as a resident, because in many cases, the degree in which the client was involved excluded from the job. I think this could be a solution. We take the burden off the shoulders of the heads of institutions and institutions to trick them into selling the products produced by the caregivers as a fundraiser. I believe that this opens up the possibility of a more open, open and even more profitable activity. If this greater benefit is spent on further development and reintegration and on leading to the world of work, then perhaps there is an opportunity here to achieve results. In a few words, I would also like to mention parenting, because I do not consider what is in this proposal as being in the present form to be a good form. Of course, there is justice, of course there is moral responsibility, of course, there is the responsibility of families; whether parents are responsible. If we want to start in this direction by ironing the fee on relatives in social or even child protection institutions, then let's start with child protection institutions. Then let's start by saying that if a child had to be removed from the family because the parents put that child at risk, then let's start with that. Instead of ironing the retirement home fee on an elderly parent's child, we are ironing the costs of temporary care on parents who are at risk to the child. Why didn't we start from this direction? Even society would have accepted it much better because justice can be achieved here. Because it is clear that the parent has an obligation to raise and maintain his child. In the other case, I'm not so sure. Parenting isn't a sure thing anymore. Let's get out of that layer of old people who live in their own homes, whether they use social services or feel threatened by their own maintenance. [[19.30]] Let's think about an average old man's head. The elderly man who raised his child in love, care, and the greatest opportunities to extend his abilities, although he is in difficult circumstances and cannot pay a fee, but would not think of bringing his own child to trial and to trial. Which one of you older parents is gonna do that? Probably the One Who As a Child He was also in such a relationship with his own child, and although in many cases he is not able to do so, and I do not think it can be proved by a court whether he is now entitled, whether on a moral basis the parent is entitled to this parenting or not, this will lead to very chaotic and very strange situations. Speaking of elderly people in institutional care, a large part of the elderly living in the homes of the elderly in institutional care only pays a fraction of the institutional fee with their personal fee. So we can talk about it, and I guess the head of the institution will be forced to do so by normative withdrawal, or by who knows what means they will be obliged to start these lawsuits. [[Dr. László Palkovics: No.]] We'll see, I don't think that's gonna... The obligation to keep parents in the Fundamental Law, in the Ptk. and now in the Social Act. If there's a tenant in the nursing home who can't pay the fee, what happens then? It is likely that the head of the institution will have an obligation to raise this resource from somewhere. You can't be a criminal leader, you can't be a social law-breaker, you can't be an institution leader, you can't even be a citizen's law-breaker! This means that 90 percent of the elderly in their homes will be prosecuted by the head of the institution. Have you thought about that? Or how are you going to solve this? So they're gonna pay for it? Then will that institution get the same normative? So the government won't follow its own laws and its own Fundamental Law? Or is it...? This situation is a little interesting, neither legally, humanly, nor morally. I think that you should rethink this and start on a new basis, negotiating with either society or other parliamentary parties, and not just the government to decide this issue, start over. And once again, if you start over - I know you won't, but if you start over - you should start with not parenting, but supporting the children, because there is an act where you raised your child undeservingly, there is an act of endangering it, and you had to take it out of the family. So in both legal, moral, and justice terms, these parents have a fee. If it's the other way around, I have my doubts. And I have doubts about what other processes this will start. As other opposition fellow Members have said, these lawsuits are likely to drive a wedge in families. Not to mention the fact that this is something that can be found mainly by an industry in North-East Hungary. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: That's right!]] And the elderly will realize that I'm not only going to take away his pension now, but I'm going to figure out a way to get money out of his descendant through the elderly parent and squeeze money out of him. So I think that's what you should think about, override your own decision. I must say that precisely because of this passage, the eligibility of this proposal is also questionable. Thank you for listening. [[Dr. László György Lukács applauds.]]
u2016-11-10-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Mr Sándor Szabó, MSZP. [[Intercoms.]] I'm sorry, but before that, it's Erzsébet Schmuck, the head of the political faction. I'm sorry.
u2016-11-10-143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It seems that the two critical points of this bill are the modification of homeless care and parenting. I, too, would like to comment fundamentally on these two issues. What we see in the draft law is that homelessness would allow care to be provided at the outdoors, which means that housing services could be provided not only within the institution's building but also in external spaces. At present, there is a possibility for rehabilitation institutions to take care of after-care in external spaces, which is what they want to introduce now in homeless care, and, as we can see, the duration of the housing space should not exceed three years. The thing about external space is that it's a beautiful idea, so we think it's a nice idea, but it's not going to work. For example, it is unthinkable to provide external seats in municipal housing. It was still difficult to get three apartments from the municipality for the exit phase of the LELEK program. Unfortunately, the municipal housing stock has been drastically reduced, there are very few in Budapest, and most of them are not in habitable condition and need to be renovated. We have no knowledge that the government would give money to renovate apartments and build apartments in the municipality. And if you buy market apartments or rent a market-based apartment, it's impossible because the maintainers will not be able to buy or rent an apartment from the norm, especially at current prices on the real estate market. The other program of the government is the "First Up" program, which provides housing for homeless people with subsidised apartments. The problem with the programme, planned from 1.4 billion EU funds, is that while the norm is very low, smaller associations are barely vegetating, and only the big ones are applying for tender money, such as the Maltese Charity Service. The little ones are left out, they can only join as consortium members. In practice, smaller organizations and associations will be cut off. The LMP believes that the next steps need to be taken to a genuine programme that is conducive to homelessness and sustainable in the long term. Firstly, a national social housing programme should be developed and implemented as a matter of urgency. It is important to review the aid scheme in order to preserve housing. For example, those who have to make a living on their own through income support or disability allowance cannot pay rent, rent or practically starve. In the case of people who have already become homeless, we would like to see the extension of the SOLUTION-programmed solution. This was supposed to be a national model, but in the end, it was just a tassel on the hat. We believe that the circumstances of the hostels should also be investigated, and then measures should be taken in the light of the investigation. It is very, very important that living conditions should be ensured at the hostels. Not least, it would also help if the government did not talk about the homeless by saying that they wanted to live on the streets. We think that no one wants or wants to live on the streets, but simply has become so lifelike. And then it's parenthood. As we know, the Fundamental Law is Article XVI. Article 4 (4) states that adult children are obliged to care for their parents who are in need. Act V of 2013 on the Civil Code also contains the rules of kinship. And now they're putting it in another law. It is proposed that, if neither income nor assets of the beneficiary cover the institutional fee or other persons voluntarily undertake to pay it, the proposal provides for the possibility for the head of the institution to initiate an agreement with the children of the qualified age. If no agreement is reached with the children of the qualified legal age, reimbursement of the fee difference may be requested by judicial means from the child of the qualified legal age. In other words, while the parent's wealth and income have been taken into account in setting the institutional fee, the income of the adult child will now practically count. However, if the adult child says that he doesn't have enough income and can't reach an agreement, then even if he wants to prove it with payment or bank statements, the institution can go to court. All this can be done without the parent's knowledge and consent. [[19.40]] When presenting the law, the communication issued by the EMMI gives a shocking justification to the law. At least we think it's unacceptable. It is written that the Hungarian State provides security to its elderly or needy citizens. However, just as the responsibility of raising children, the care of an elderly parent cannot be fully taken over by the state, the family's primary responsibility. In history, there was no culture, society, that considered caring for elderly parents primarily not as a task for families. The lack of multigenerational families cannot change this moral obligation. The one who can do it and doesn't take care of his parent is ungrateful. The one who has money and doesn't care for his parent is actually responsible for the other taxpayers. The Ministry also generously adds:. The pension, financial and other social benefits provided by the state to the elderly remain unchanged. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In other words, the government still considers the family to be the number one responsible for caring for the elderly. And those who do not care for their elderly parents do not fulfill their moral duty, they are ungrateful. The LMP, on the other hand, starts from a different perspective, because we think that whoever can do it is now supporting their elderly family member, even beyond strength. At the same time, very few people can accept the costs of institutional care, since they themselves cannot afford to make a normal living for their families. The government points to Western European countries about how many places parenting exists. Obviously, there are a lot of questions that can be asked in this regard. I ask, too, how many countries in Western Europe where 41.5 percent of the population live below the minimum living age, where the average wage earners are at the bottom of the income distribution in Western countries, where two thirds of the workers earn below the average wage, a quarter of the workers are below the minimum living age, and a quarter of the public employees work for the below-poverty pay. Where middle classes of income live practically badly, 75% of them would have a problem with an unexpected expense because they do not have enough reserves. What moral responsibility does the government who sit by and watch millions of families fail to make a living on their income? Is it the government that introduced a tax system with which 60 percent of the workers were wronged, and they came out of the lowest earners? I am, of course, talking about the introduction of a single-key personal income tax system. It should also be asked what moral responsibility the government is talking about, which in six years did not raise the minimum wage above the minimum wage. This government wants to expect the adult children to go through a humiliating court process, and in the end, the court finds that they are unable to hold. What kind of family-friendly government interferes with the lives of families so harshly? The one that's tuning generations against each other is corrupting relationships between families? What does the government think of families as having no basic solidarity in their families, and if the child does not support their parents, it can only be because it does not want to care for them. We think that anyone who can take care of his elderly parents who can't do it will be sued in vain. The court will also say at the end of a humiliating process of proof that it is not capable of caring for its parent. With this step, the government wants to take its hands off the elderly in need, saying that their families should take care of them. As the government withdrew from social care for people in need, it now wants to undermine the state's care for the elderly. It has already increased poverty in old age by a number of measures. The equity care fee was abolished, which could be used by elderly parents who cared for a needy parent. The pension minimum will be frozen for nine years next year, at 28 500 HUF. The pension increase will be less than one percent, which will mean a pension increase of three quarters of pensioners of thousands of HUF or less. This is also a cynical step because, in addition to the increasing withdrawal of the government from the reduction of poverty in old age, from the state's care of the elderly in need, self-care has also been hampered by the einstantisation of private pension funds. By nationalising private pension funds, Fidesz took away from people an instrument that could have prevented poverty and the need for family members in old age. According to the LMP, those who think rationally know that families help their parents as much as possible, and where they do not, mostly because the family's livelihood is not guaranteed. It is not unacceptable that the child cannot care for his parent, but that the elderly person, who has worked and paid for his pension contributions for decades, will receive so little pension in his retirement years that he cannot even cover retirement benefits. The state must not abandon social solidarity, but strengthen it. In order to eradicate poverty in old age, a pension increase should be developed, which will lead to a proportionate increase for small pensioners. A minimum pension should be raised, a basic pension should be introduced and a differentiated or fixed pension increase should be considered. The equity care fee must be restored. And we think that the system of parenting should be abolished. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-11-10-144	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. Next up, Mr Sándor Szabó, MSZP.
u2016-11-10-145	It's really my turn now. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Indeed, much has already been said about parenting, and there really is much more that cannot be added to that. What you need to see is that, indeed, this is going to be a serious problem. If we look at the financial situation of families and children in Hungary, in the event that the child is still subject to parental support, and is still financially able to pay for it, because the law will oblige him to do so, but he may be in a position to endanger the everyday livelihood of his own family. The problem is that this band, I think, represents a very significant number today in Hungary, and, indeed, in addition to paying for parental support, hundreds of thousands of families will be in serious situations. I think, by the way, about the parenting that many of us have said: whoever wants to take care of their parents will. By the way, that would be moral and fair, and I don't think we should make a basic law about that, but we have to think about it. And then two years from now, or I don't know, these lawsuits are gonna start in a year or two, and then we're gonna think back to the fact that, in a Thursday night under unfair circumstances, we've had so many debates on a matter of this magnitude, if it's even possible to argue about it, so let's just remember what a big issue we were talking about. In fact, I did not ask for the floor because of that, but because there is also a part of this law that regulates the functioning of child welfare centers. Previously, this happened in many places where children's welfare centers could also be provided by associations. This was the case with the city of Szeged, by the way. This basic task was handed over on the basis of the Social Law and the Child Protection Act to the maintenance of the Szeged Regional Multipurpose Association on 1 January 2007. There must be more work to be done by this subregional partnership. The social responsibilities set out in the social law, including family support, benefits provided by the Child Protection Act, such as the operation of child welfare services or children's welfare centres, and the role of regional protection workers. According to the current law, children's welfare centres can no longer be operated on the basis of association agreements as from 1 January 2017 and should be carried out by the municipalities. The norm does not change in the basic case, it has to be run by the municipalities with the same amount of money as the associations had previously received. [[19.50]] However, it was a well-established system, and I think that it was not only in Szeged, because I looked through and went around the problems of the counties, and I saw that five of the municipalities of seven walking chairs in Csongrád county were affected by this: Csongrád, Hódmezővásárhely, Kistelek, Mórahalom and Szeged. I haven't looked around yet, but I've made phone calls to a lot of places in the country, and in many counties, it works in the same way, so the subregional partnerships are doing this job. And while I say it again, there is no difference in money by getting this task to the municipalities, it is a well-established system, which works well in many places. I have a number like that in my head, which I'm not sure is good, but maybe half the county-righted municipalities are. In fact, we have tabled an amendment to this, but not only we, as I see it, but also our Fidesz fellow Members have made an amendment to this proposal that, once this system works and works well, I think that we should leave the operation of child welfare centres in the associations. The rest has already been discussed by my fellow Member and other Members. Thank you.
u2016-11-10-146	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Kovács for two minutes, Fidesz.
u2016-11-10-147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I do not want to waste time, but even before Mr Secretary of State's reply, as there may be a political debate about parenting, let me defend the legislative proposal from the point of view that there is a slippage; perhaps even in agreement with Sebestyén's approach that we should have started with the children, which is now set aside. The legislative proposal clearly states that the head of the institution must seek an agreement with the family member with whom he will later initiate parenting. If there is no agreement, and if you do not give it to me, Lord God, it is for the disclosure, say, announcement, of the current law, then, once again, there will be no constitutional concern, no civil code concern, no legal concern from the fact that the head of the institution will be quasi-obligated to sue in any event. Read this: the way to the agreement is in no way but in the hands of the head of the institution. So I think that the slides, the scares shouldn't be dealt with. In addition, everyone agreed with the constitutional obligation that would be a moral obligation, and perhaps it should not be addressed that the institution of parenting is an important, socially expected task. But if you don't! I'm sorry to give you my own example again: I ran a nursing home as vice principal, we knew that the child had rewritten the parent's fortune, lived happily with it, and that would have been enough. The State does not want to withdraw on these grounds, because it is in the amendment of the law that it cannot, at any level, hinder or affect the establishment of an institutional relationship and the payment of the fee, the 80 percent. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-10-148	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman László György Lukács, Jobbik.
u2016-11-10-149	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members present, In terms of parenting, I think it is worth stating, and I do not want to talk about it too long, and as a lawyer, obviously, I have no legal experience with parenting, but I would like to share with you a few thoughts about the essence and nature of holding or holding itself. When I looked up parenting quickly once again, because this has already been a debate before this House, and once we had this debate, I still needed a point of reference. And it was an institution of child support and kinship. The parenting itself, though not by that name, the laws, the family law, the Csjt. , or earlier in Ptk. He admitted it, so it's not a novelty, but it was a very low-level institution, perhaps not an employed institution at all. This was, among other things, because for some reason the case law has managed to shape cases in a court of law in such a way that people do not want to sue on this issue. However, now it seems that increased occupation and increased attention can in some way upset the balance between the previous ratio between parenting and childbearing or a well-defined difference. When we talk about having a child, the law or law always assumes or weighs upon it and expresses that when the child is born or when the child is growing, it has no influence on its own economic situation, no independent property, no independent income, and therefore his life, his needs can only be achieved by keeping, if there is no single family, so that one party or one of its parents, or both parents, are obliged to provide for the maintenance of the child for his livelihood, i.e. without regard to the livelihood of the parents, so at the expense of it. Compared to this, parenting is a completely different relationship, because by the time you get here, you get to that age, and don't give it to me, God, you need it, until then there's an economic life, full of decisions, full of possibilities, full of mistakes, full of success. The same can already be said for his adult child, as he also has multiple choices as to how he will go, succeed or fail. I think that it is a completely different economic relationship when we are talking about the need for a parent, a relative, an adult relative, or, where appropriate, the maintenance obligation of a spouse, since it is also the same category, which means a much different relationship. Therefore, quite rightly, he has no regard for it, nor is he sorry, he has the exact amount to be given and the length to which he is obliged to provide maintenance, since he is no longer obliged to pay the cost of his own livelihood in this case. So it can be said very calmly, in life, that someone can write it down in court, that he will certainly raise his earnings to the last penny, and his financial situation is such that he is unable to hold on to his adult, senior relative. However, I have mentioned to you that, if there were such lawsuits, they were not very common, and they were not typical at all. However, by directing these lawsuits in such a way that there is a public structure behind it that, if, under the main rule, the difference between its income ratio and the institutional remuneration fee occurs or becomes significant, the State will first enter into this private relationship as giving them an agreement opportunity, if I interpret it correctly, and if this arrangement is not possible, then the head of the institution has the opportunity. I don't know if it's the district office or the head of the institution in this case. Although I do not know whether the maintainer has the legal representation or the representation of the department; I think this is recorded in a maintenance charter or in any other contract. But if I understand correctly, that's when the institution becomes a court figure and actually intervenes between two adult individuals not only in terms of property, but - and then perhaps this is the point of the problem - in their personal and private situation. After all, many times you could see that behind the maintenance contracts and maintenance lawsuits - which I have had the pleasure of doing - there were very many broken human relationships. And with that, perhaps the institution will push one more, and possibly make it worse in these situations, which are in such corrupt personal relations. We must accept that not everyone succeeds in the personal adult's life against his family, his parents, as he would have wanted, because they probably raised everyone in the way that they were raised, unless the wolves raised him to show some other concern about parental respect or caring for them, but I think that in this case, the state intervenes in a way that causes a much greater agony in the otherwise corrupt relationship. I see a very large part of it all the time, and unfortunately, life brings these things up, and I understand that the state is trying to bring back on those who might have something, their own expenses, their own burdens, but usually it will always come up in cases where I should not be right when the state has to enter into an extremely corrupt parent-child relationship as a third party and try to enforce a fee difference or the difference between the fee and the income ratio. Of course, it is safe to say that there are so many safeguards in the legislation, since the parent cannot prevent a child, spouse or partner in need of maintenance here, so the parent joins at the very end, but everyone also knows that parents can enter such an institution in life, or they can enter such an institution when their children are beyond the zenite of having children that they themselves may or should be liable to pay child support. [[20.00]] The other one. Of course, there is a possibility of proof before the court, but I think the courts will start by running a little lost or wandering around in the sea of legislation, because they themselves will measure it to some previous institution or previous case-law. Otherwise, they will measure it to child support in their own practice, and then it will lead very far here, depending on the vehementness of the courts, what evidence they will take. I'm not even sure if they're gonna judge me right or not by some kind of coercion. I'm not saying they're biased between parties in any way, but they're gonna judge you in some kind of compliance. The current opportunity is to give the state the opportunity to enter into the personal relationship and property relations of two adult people, or to become an actor in some way, I do not think it is fortunate that this will be opened. I understand, of course, that the maintenance of the institutions must be ensured in some way. I am also aware that it is not easy for institutions to manage their own operations, and that income ratios are not necessarily sufficient for the institution to come out of its own budget. But, of course, the social network, the maintenance of social society in such a modern state, is also responsible for the fact that, unfortunately, the state has to stand up unfairly for others. What has been said here is that there may be abuse in rural areas on ageing and other issues, which is still possible. If there is a foody aging person, or if there are those who have concluded a food maintenance contract who would like to collect money from the dependent adult relative, they can do so now. By the way, so far, it was largely the caselaw that opposed it. Now the state is entering this category, and it will be very questionable what kind of vehemency and wisdom the institutions will exercise. I just hope that they will receive some level of wisdom, some sort of collective orientation, so that such lawsuits will not be brought in one mountain after another, because I think that judicial practice, Hungarian case law, Hungarian moral thinking may not be prepared to judge this problem correctly, rather than falling from one extreme to another extreme. I think that the state should now refrain from causing personal distress in these relationships, by forcing the institution of parenting. I think it would be a good idea for the state, the government, to withdraw from this position now, to back off, and to give us maybe five to ten years to see how the newly spotlighted parenthood can find its place in civil law, civil procedure and judicial practice. I believe that this is essentially a reason to delete this part of the bill in its entirety. I do not know whether we may have an amending proposal, but if not, Mr Secretary of State will consider it, and the government will consider whether for a while, even if we do not lose it, but we should expect it to have a clear case-law and clear case-law in it, and then maybe we should run it over again. Thank you very much. [[Clap on the cutter's wound.]]
u2016-11-10-150	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I see you're getting ready, Mr. Secretary. The rapporteur wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. Mr Károly Czibere, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2016-11-10-151	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, I think it is important that, if not every question, because, for example, Mrs Bangóné has asked a lot of questions, but I am trying to answer the questions of the node. Because what I see is that everyone has tried to make a point, and there are proposals that are truly constructive in most cases. I would like to thank Mr Kovács for the encouragement he has given us in the area of assisted housing. I think that, in fact, it is not enough for disincentives to be carried out only from EU sources in relation to disincentives of disabled institutions. It cannot be successful if this is not accompanied by the continuous development of assisted housing. Thank you for the encouragement in terms of developing employment. It is also important to highlight this possibility from that old framework and to provide more people with disabilities with this employment in relation to the institutions. The self-service will give you that chance. I will turn to Mrs Bangóné's question, but everyone has touched on parenting. There are some things that are important here. One of them, I believe, has mentioned the issue of obligation. The proposal is quite clear: the maintainer may ask the court. You can have it. So there's no such thing as being given to an institution manager that he's obligated to do this, and it won't be published. There is, however, a much more important question raised by Mrs Bangóné, that the government is sure to do so with the intention of taking out funds somewhere else. Old age security is essentially guaranteed through three large systems. One is the financing of the pension system and the other is the financing of the health services of the elderly, and the third is long-term care and care; and the specialist care, which we hope will be able to start next year. Now, if you look at these systems and the 2017 Budget Act, you will not find any indication that, in parallel with the introduction of parenting, the government would calculate that it would draw funds from any system that would help the elderly and guarantee the social security of the elderly on the other side. In fact, it is not true that, let us say, social care, the norm of nursing homes would be reduced by that. In fact! Look at this: the normative of home care increases from 145 thousand to 210,000 forints, by 50 percent. I'll tell you that again. So the standard of residential elderly care is not reduced; the standard of home care in primary care - this is included in the budget law, this is voted on - increases from 145 thousand forints to 210,000 forints. So it is not that, in parallel with parenting, the state or government would withdraw funds from the funding of the social services system for the elderly, but it is precisely that the norm will increase by 50 percent in basic care. Therefore, I would like to reject the sanda hints that assume or imply that some kind of withdrawal is being made. And here I would like to deny another important, many things that have been said. This is the problem of poverty in old age. It is quite simply necessary to see that the poverty rate calculated according to the average EU methodology is around 14-15 per cent in Hungary - again only KSH - and 4.5 per cent for the elderly. So a third of the average poverty rate is the poverty rate of the elderly. Simply because I am here with State Secretary Novák, when she summarized her reply, she said in her speech how the real value of pensions increased. So it's simply a transmission of an unreal image. With regard to parenting, it is also important to say that we believe, as many have said, that Congresswoman Schmuck said that basic solidarity works in the majority of families. The vast majority of children really think of their parents as raising me with honor, so it is my job, responsibility and duty to take care of them, help them, and not abandon them. It's not that. This is not about destroying families based on basic solidarity. It is very important to state that. It is, as I said in the expozee, that it is simply not fair to society, to other members of society, that if those who have an obligation or an income do not fulfil this obligation. I think many people here have said that the principles of the Fundamental Law are in order. Then we'll have to put this into the law. [[20.10]] This is Congressman Luke who said why this had to be opened. This wasn't just opened. You had the Ptk before you in May. in his debate, and it opened him up. What we have to do is to transfer this to a system that is affected from this point of view, and I think that, after our investigations, as I have just said, we will be talking about a sporadic phenomenon, which will not be a significant number, and will not start with a multitude of court cases, nor will an industry, a lawyer, or any industry build on it, we believe. Our experience at the state maintainer shows that this will go this far in extremely few cases. It is also possible today that the difference between what we are talking about here, so the difference between institutional and personal fees, is simply the child's commitment. Therefore, there will be no lawsuits in decisive quantities, because the children will continue today, because the situation that many people here have said is that they did raise my parents in an honest manner, so I will join in, and I will participate in covering his fee. But there are some who do not, and there are very bad examples, and this opportunity must be provided. Once again, it is not mandatory for the head of the institution, but an opportunity. We are on people's side and we are on the side of decent people, so this is a summary sentence, and I think that might sum up our position on this matter. We think it's important that anyone who can take care of their parent. I think that's how decent people think and take care of their parents. The next issue was home assistance, a question of marketisation. Here, Congresswoman Bangóné said that she sees it as a danger to care for the rightholder. Twice in my expo, it's true that it was long, but I told you twice that you can take care of the market in the market in a way that doesn't endanger the supply of the rightholder in any way, as is otherwise the case in other cases. There's a misunderstanding with the 35,000. The congresswoman also mentioned that we would like to limit the number of beneficiaries of home assistance to 35,000, the number of beneficiaries and beneficiaries, while there was a number of false beneficiaries around 120 to 130 thousand a few months ago or last year. This is a mistake. There are two parts of the system: one part is provided by the local authorities, one part is covered by the basic supply obligation; the other part is provided by civilians, churches, and the second part, i.e. those provided by civilians, churches and private actors, is subject to a staff limit of 35,000. Once it is the responsibility of the State to tell us how much capacity it can finance; but the municipality can grow as long as there is a need, as long as there is a need, there the municipality can provide, there the capacity can increase. In the ecclesiastical, civil world, we would like to define the 35 thousand, and we think it will be enough, because now 29 thousand have this number, so there is an opportunity for further growth. The next issue was that homelessness needs to be differentiated; Congressman Sebestyén Vigó said. We totally agree, and it's coming out. I also thank you for encouraging differentiation in the area of home assistance and for providing support for us in the field of housing and development employment. About parenting, I think I answered. In order for the risky parent to pay for the temporary care, we will consider this possibility. I also think it is important to emphasise, in connection with the Member's comment, that the issue of parental responsibility does not in any way affect the rights of the elderly, the rights of the elderly and the care of the elderly. So if you don't settle with the child in the case of parenting, it's gonna be a court case, it's not gonna affect your care. Erzsébet Schmuck raised the issue of homelessness in addition to parenting, the outer space and what should be done. In 2014, we convened the most important representatives of the homeless profession, and they put a thick program on our table, called homeless activities. I think that there are, and there may be other proposals, of course, and we are constantly monitoring and taking this into account, but, above all, together with those working in the homeless profession, who have the most experience in this area, we have developed these proposals and we have proposed to put them on your desk. I would like to answer Sándor Szabó about the partnership. Basically, in May, when this came into the law, you might remember it, the goal in the eyes of the government was that the associations did not always clearly follow the boundaries of the district. Since the fundamental goal of creating a new system of child welfare centers was to ensure that children do not get distracted, so the child welfare service: location; district level: children's welfare center and guardianship should not be distracted, it is important to be absolutely clear which children in the settlement belong to which guardianship and which child welfare center. From this point of view, it was important for this new system to be the limit of walking, and that is why the emphasis on regulation was here. However, after we have sensed these, and more people have sensed them, more people have expressed criticism about this, and we really see this problem, we believe that the government is now thinking that it will support the proposals to amend so that the association can continue to operate a centre. That is what I think, and thank you very much for your comments from both the pro-government and the opposition benches. All in all, I therefore think that we can move on to the path that we have started in recent years, both in terms of subsidised housing and in terms of temporary care, as well as in terms of parenting and home assistance, and that we can really get closer to achieving more targeted benefits and services, and indeed, we can move the budgetary resources that taxpayers provide to us towards those who really need, really have intensive care and other needs. The differentiation and transformation of services have basically served this purpose so far and beyond. Thank you again very much for your suggestions and comments. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Sándor Kovács applauds.]]
u2016-11-10-152	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments could be tabled by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. We don't have a post-meet speaker. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 8:00 a.m. I wish you a restful good night. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 20:19 p.m.]]
