u2016-11-22-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome all of you and welcome our guests who are monitoring our work today. I would like to inform you that László Földi and István Ikotity will be in charge of the meeting. We now have, as usual, speeches before the agenda. Mr Attila Móring, Member of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, the notary of the Parliament, has applied for a speech before the agenda. Mr. Note, you have the floor, please.
u2016-11-22-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Thanks to this year's complex road renovation program, a total of HUF 69 billion of domestic sources are refurbished across the country 444 kilometers of main road and 119 kilometers of side roads. Due to the renovations, the availability of several regions is improving, travel times are decreasing, the service standards of public transport by road and bus are increasing. Refurbished roads serve safe transport for at least the medium term, but even longer, depending on use. The Hungarian Public Road Nonprofit Zrt. on the basis of the contracts concluded for the construction of Somogy county, the section of the 610 main road between the county of Dunaföldvár-Nagykanizsa, the section of the main road between Szegetvár-Balatonlelle (Szigetvár-Balatonlelle) and the external section of the main road between Szeged-Som and Ságvár-Siófok-Kiliti, the section of the main road No. 65 between Siófok and Balatonszentgyörgyi (Balatonföldvár) and the section of the main road No. 681 between Berzence and Ságvár-Siófok-Kiliti, the intersection of the main road No. 7, 68 and 76 (Balatonszentgyörgyi körgyi) and the main road No. 7 and the section of Hollád in the outside section of the main section of Hungary. The total cost of the main road renovation completed by the end of 2016 in Somogy is about HUF 4.1 billion. In addition to single- and double-layer asphalt reinforcements after local preparation, track structure replacements, the construction and renovation of bus bays, trenches, benches, borders and road bridges are also necessary. To improve road safety, roundabout traffic was built in the inner area of Lengyeltót, which helped to make a node at the site of countless accidents safer for the car society. Several sections of hull prisms have been installed, signs and barriers have been renewed, and acoustic hull markings have been created in some places. The estimated cost of the renovations planned for 2017 from domestic sources in Somogy is HUF 4.6 billion and the amount of renovations planned under the TOP is HUF 2.7 billion. As a result, 16 km of TOP and 57 km of other domestic sources are renewed in Somogy. This mileage is more than 500 miles [800 km] nationwide in terms of renovations. I think there has been no recent experience of such road renovations. This is essential for safe transport, and the role of the government in this is undisputed. In addition to all these results, we ask the government to take into account the development of municipal roads when planning domestic funds, because the municipalities cannot manage these investments on their own initiative. We would also like to pay attention to the construction of the low-parametric excavation routes that we have been waiting for for decades in the small villages counties, including Somogy. These are essential from a tourist point of view and in order to help get to jobs. To mention only two of these: when we talk about Lake Balaton all year round, then the only hot water bath on the southern shore of Lake Balaton, the approach to Csistafürdő would be possible from Fonyod, here we should build a three-kilometer journey. Or the other one, which has also been expected for decades, is the construction of the Somogyvár-Gamás-Kisbárapáti connecting road. So once again, I would like to say that there has been no precedent for such road renovations in recent years and decades, thank you to the government, and we would like to ask that they be taken into account in planning, especially with regard to roads to be built in small villages. [[The problem is you're not worth it!]] Mr. President, thank you for letting me know. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-11-22-2	State Secretary László Tasó responds to the speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2016-11-22-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, Dear Mr. Messenger, I could talk a long time about how much work we have behind us and how much work we have ahead of us, in order to ensure that Hungary's transport systems work and that transport safety is further improved in Hungary. We have been able to take a lot of steps to ensure that many of the measures have already brought results, but naturally we cannot stop and we must not stop. What we need to look at is how we can make our roads even safer, and how we can naturally meet the demands that arise in everyday life and are naturally formulated as a legitimate expectation to the Hungarian government. The Hungarian government understood and clearly sees the problems that have so far forced the maintenance of the road network. This is why the decision was made and implemented, in which the Magyar Kúzútkezelő Zrt. knows safely from spring onwards. Do your job. The Hungarian government guaranteed HUF 400 billion for five years to have the right source for its operations and maintenance work, its maintenance activity itself. Of course, it is also necessary for the Hungarian government to create an opportunity to renovate the lower roads, not only in Somogy County, but in Hungary as a whole. I was pleased that in many cases we were able to listen to and meet the needs of the missing relationships, which even caused a bag-landing character or made transport impossible on occasion in everyday life, to be refurbished. There's a lot of this way. Overall, the Hungarian public road operator manages 32,000 kilometres, and, of course, it is safe to say that this is one of the biggest assets of the country, so we must pay the utmost attention to it. This is how we do it, as we try to allocate resources in proportion to each programme. It is distributed by measuring the length of the road network in the county at all times for roads managed by the road operator, and the construction is carried out in proportion. There has also been a change compared to the previous period, and I think that, in the professional order of business, we will also take into account the related investments that will further strengthen the nature of the transport driving sector and will further improve the competitiveness of the region. We have a clear task of implementing in the sector the goals set by the government that put Hungary's transport in a better position. [[9.10]] What is important: in Hungary, we can start too many road construction projects and we have already started over the past few years, and I am sure you know, my fellow Member, that in Hungary we can add such a large amount of domestic resources to road development, for which there has really been no precedent before, and God gives us that there will still be an example in the next ten years, but I am sure that this is a huge achievement. We will add HUF 1279 billion over the next five years to the EU resource that is a little less than what I have said in road development only. In this connection, we will be able to establish the missing sections of all motorways up to the border, and any fast-track connections that are still missing for the county seat will happen. All regional developments will be examined and implemented in order to build the link and make it safe to use it. Just to mention: M2 Budapest-Vác. At the M3 I very much hope that this week, to be more precise, the Prime Minister's meeting will be a step forward and step forward in order to bring the border crossing point at or around Beregdaróc to a standstill and to have the opportunity to continue the M3. After all, the Hungarian Government intends not only to build the M3 but also to build the M34, we are waiting for the Ukrainian side and we trust the meeting on Friday. There is the M4, which we have already started in the direction of Berettyóújfalu, we will build its missing section up to the border, linking it to the first phase of the M35, but the development of the M4 towards Cegléd will begin, and we will complete the renovation of the 4 up to the Weapons. We're not gonna stop there, we're gonna continue, focusing all the way down to the construction of the missing section. We hope that it will also be possible to start in the 22nd, as this also depends on what domestic budgetary opportunities we will have at the time. There's been more news on the development of the M7. Naturally, the development ahead requires the three-banding of the M7, the M1, and if we stop here, I can immediately tell the M15 that it will be implemented from the CEF source, which is expected by the end of 2019. The M70 will be built by the end of 18 and, to be exact, double-banded, and next to it is the development of the M9, which we prepare and list the connection of Sopron, the connection of Békéscsaba... - [[Towards the Fidesz Group:]] The Member has very much reassured me about this - and, naturally, we still have a number of renovations ahead of us. We are moving forward, we need more resources, and we are not forgetting the municipalities. Thank you so much for asking. I hope that the government can continue to help develop the road network. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-22-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, At the back of the bag, the Hungarian public education programme from the MSZP group was requested by Ms Ágnes Kunhalmi for an opportunity to speak before the agenda. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2016-11-22-5	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Today is November 22nd, the day of public education. This day was declared the day of Hungarian public education in 1991. The trade unions and the initiativers wanted to draw attention to the importance of the quality and nature of public education in the life, the success of each individual's life, and the importance of the quality of public education at all times in the success and life of a society as a whole. It was pointed out in 1991 that, as the school is today, tomorrow the country will be like it is. They wanted to draw attention to the fact that what is happening in the classroom today will happen tomorrow in the economy, in industry, and that there will be a democratic level or even a deficit in a society. We should celebrate today. We should celebrate the profession, teachers, efforts and achievements, and while thanking everyone who, after the change of regime, is now a retired educator or an active educator and, above all, considers it in the best interests of the children, we still have no reason to rejoice or celebrate today. Between 1991 and 2010, when someone looked at Hungary, they saw a country that was essentially awarded freedom, pregnant with debates, but essentially full of positive goals. This was also the main feature of education policy. Before 2010, for example, politics and the profession talked to each other. And with the goal of bringing newer generations to more than their parents, everyone believed, free of ideology. Right-wing and left-wing governments have tried to achieve the goal of making children better than their parents - and we have not been ineffective. In 2010, something happened, something broke, something changed, because Fidesz changed it. He's broken development, he's kicked the country out, and he's got public education. In 2010, Fidesz decided to give up development, give up thousands of children, give up the knowledge society. Only in reality, the world is moving forward and developing, and today Hungarian children do not have the new knowledge and skills they basically need. I think that when politics and Fidesz decided not to give the children the new quality of knowledge they need to thrive in life in Hungary, please, it is true treason and treason! To tell you only one thing: after 2010, when you took over government and transformed public education, parents, middle-class parents, thousands of civilian families buy knowledge for children outside the education system. Today, not only do they buy language lessons and IT lessons for children, but they are forced to buy mathematics, history and everything else outside because you have disabled the education system. Thousands of civil families are desperate and looking for alternative opportunities, forms that will get their children out of this public education system, because it is now out of order. One example: this is the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Center, which fell in front of our eyes. They've created a debt-generating machine, which they're practically proud to make up for all the time while you created it. The KLIK is a black hole, it loses creativity, it loses the teacher and the child, and now you're lost in it, because there is no politically-party leader who quotes this inoperable, old, bad, communistic planning system [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] He could even operate it. Before 2010, the state failed, the state ran out, the state normative ran out, and not the local government, and unfortunately you didn't learn from it after 2010, the state failed. Disfunctional is your state. They take away a lot of money from the public education system, demand more work for wage increases, nervously, teachers are exhausted, tired, children are overwhelmed, dropout is huge, functional illiterateism rages, foreign language skills are nothing, and digital analfabetism is still raging along with functional analfabetism. But thank God there's a solution: the creative school. The main criterion is that in creative school we focus on children and not on the institution alone; the creative school focuses not on mistakes, but on children's talent. It raises cooperation, tolerance, openness, acceptance, solidarity. I don't know, Mr. Secretary, for the last seven years, those words haven't even been spoken by you. Finally, the creative school is responsible for developing emotional intelligence. I think you need a civic and creative course, too. Thank you.
u2016-11-22-6	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-22-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Your speech was truly creative in such a way that the facts, laws, and data did not bind him at all when he wrote his text. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] You painted a condition that before 2010 everything was beautiful and everything was good in Hungary. I would particularly like to draw attention to your statement that the municipalities have run out of money... [[Agnes Kunhalmi: I didn't say that! Interviews from the lines of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] either the government or the municipality ran out of money for the maintenance and operation of schools. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Don't lie, Secretary of State.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It's a creative way of putting it. So when you took it, you said you ran out - it's not the same thing. Talk to local government leaders, even socialists. [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: Normative!]] If the press isn't there sometimes, they might not say what you said here in Parliament. [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] After all, if I were to look at minuses and pluses from the point of view of only four elements, how you left the Hungarian public education system in 2010, let's look at a minus: you took a month's salary from all Hungarian teachers. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Talk about KLIK!]] Of course, you may have only wanted your creativity to be revived, as you say. Let's see, they bought 381 new padlocks, because they closed that job space in 381 places, and there was no teaching. Let's look again at a negative: 15,000 teachers were laid off, so they estimated their creativity. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: That's not true!]] [[9.20]] And let's look at another plus: the government's debt was increased by HUF 1200 billion because of the lack of money from the education and social and health system, which was maintained and operated by the municipality at that time. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: How much did you take?]] This is the 1200 billion forints missing from the system. You're telling me that KLIK is a debt-generating machine. The amount we see here in 1200 billion and in KLIK in tens of billions of forints is, however, a difference of magnitude, honourable Member. Your system has created a deficit of 1200 billion, while there were many smaller holes later, precisely because of the state reserve, because we saw where the money was missing and we replaced it. You did not vote for this, but next year's budget will spend HUF 104 billion more on the system of public education than we have spent this year, and I trust that this will continue to be the case. But not only do we say, honourable Member, that Hungary is finally starting to deal better with education, but also one of your main allies, Brussels, which confirms in its education and training monitor, not the creative numbers that you have said, but the real figures that Hungary was in the second part of the European Union in 2010-12, in the back, in terms of how much it spent on education in proportion to the total national product, and now it is in the first part, fortunately in 2015. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: They replaced what they took!]] We didn't make up for it, Congresswoman. We didn't make up for what we took, but we did replace what you took, the hundreds and hundreds of billions of forints you took out of the public education system, both in terms of universities and schools. There was no need to dismiss 15,000 teachers because you took the money out of them. It wasn't because someone thought so, but because you took the money from the school buildings in 381 places. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: That's not true!]] The lack of HUF 1200 billion was not due to the mismanagement of people, but because you took the money out of education. And you had to take a month's salary because you took the money out of your education. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: And how much did they take out after 2010?]] And this is described by number as an education and training monitor of the European Union compared to the total national product, and it also describes the fact that after 2010, a government finally came to replace it. And as much as Hungary was behind 2010-12 compared to the European Union average, this is the advantage now, and this is the surplus of Hungary compared to the average of the European Union. I think, in addition to the growing total national product, we should be glad that we are finally not in the back of the European Union, but in the first part of the expenditure on education. You did not listen in vain to your own speech about this latest statement in the European Union [[Agnes Kunhalmi: I didn't have time to get to it.]] that confirms what we've always said. You're still putting up the old record, and until 2018, until you get the chance, you'll probably be putting on the old record that there's less spending on education. You are refuted by the European Union Training Monitor, Eurostat data, OECD data, Eurydice data and scientific networks. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: And the manipulated data of the KSH!]] But with regard to Hungarian education, we are equally proud of the knowledge that young people receive. You asked if young people could get knowledge that they could be creative, position or not. Thank God, in Hungary high school is more likely to be found in Hungary in proportion to those who have recently graduated, because they have better knowledge and a better environment, there are more jobs, and the same is the case for those with higher education. If a person acquires education in public education in Hungary, he has a better chance of getting a fast job than the average of the European Union. I think we should be happy about that. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-22-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The money is their God? Mr István Apáti, from the Jobbik faction, spoke before the agenda. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2016-11-22-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, To answer this question, we need to briefly review the events of the past year and a half, especially as to who, how, how could it have been expected when it came to protecting the country. When it came to the creation of a physical border lock, this was the first time that László Toroczkai, the right-wing mayor of Asotthalom, came out of his head, and since his own idea was only supported by Jobbik on a party basis, of course, to build a fence, the physical border lock. It's a shame for you to have been able to build this fence with five or ten times the amount of corruption suspected overpriced. When it came to solving the legal border, it had to be established, and Jobbik also supported it. Then it was said that a two-thirds amendment of the law was required to allow the army to be deployed to prevent or detect acts of terrorism. Jobbik provided the necessary two-thirds, and Jobbik could still be expected. Then, when there was a late referendum which had already been postponed, Jobbik asked him to encourage his sympathizers, his voters, his voters to vote and vote against. [[Noise on the pro-government side.]] Another issue, my honourable fellow Members, is that we did not have as many forints in millions as you have in billions; it was easy to make such a campaign and such a fuss out of stolen money. However, the referendum was still invalid, with about 41 percent of the valid votes being pocketed with their increasingly weaker mobilisation capacity. But these people did not vote for you, of course, because they never had 3.3 million voters, no and no, and that includes Jobbik's camp. Then, after the referendum, the amendment of the basic law, where we made it clear - which was already clearly reflected in our proposal on 27 September - that we can only vote for a full 100% protection, i.e. we exclude all titles regardless of their designation, which would essentially result in the relocation of a foreign population. You have to look, you have to read the text, you have to interpret it according to the Hungarian grammar rules, and then everyone will come to that conclusion. Thus, mandatory quotas, voluntary quotas, deportation, delocation and settlement bonds must also be excluded, since leaving only one gate, one title open would result in the resettlement of the foreign population. This is when we come to the question in the title - this is what the whole story was about - namely, you have interpreted that, except for the judge in Ghevi, on the basis of the Rogán Antal, Árpád Habony and his business circle, you have considered the business to be an exception of 100-120 billion, and if you buy in for money rich migrants or rich terrorists, that is no longer a problem for you. For this reason, the vote on 8 November did not have the necessary two-thirds majority. And the numbers are terrifying. As I said yesterday, 3915 people bought bonds, and by means of family reunification nearly 18,000 persons, the first quota set by Brussels, can come to Hungary 14 times, the bonds represent a Schengen residence permit, and after half a year they represent a lifelong residence right. It is extremely dangerous because these people can build not only a business but also a terrorist network. It is enough to think only of some of the leaders of the Islamic State, with millions of dollars each, who can arrive in Hungary with false documents. About a week, eight days ago, we submitted our basic legislative amendment proposal, which was word for word with the proposal submitted by the dear leader and the proposal that became final during the five-party negotiations. There is one sentence supplement in this amendment, the essence of which is that it is not possible to settle in Hungarian for payment of compensation: it cannot buy itself into either rich, poor migrants, rich or poor terrorists in Hungary. Give me an explanation of what's changed since November 8th. Do not be offended, do not sulk, but support this proposal if it is really important for you to defend this country. But you have now proven that this is only a party interest for you, for you this is a party matter and not a national matter, not a national interest, as you have previously lied. If this basic legislative amendment proposal is adopted, this issue may be closed. They have now come up with an intergalactic explanation that they are waiting for the Constitutional Court to decide that the Fundamental Law is capable of defending the country as it is now. If so, what was the need for the circus of the last year and a half, the referendum of HUF 20 billion? As for your lack of credibility and your loss of direction: at the latest by the end of this session, it will be proven whether this was really important to you, or now with a ridiculous, pathetic explanation, admitting their defeat, we will march on the winter break in the knowledge of their defeat and defeat. These questions should be answered and the fact that money really is the most important thing for you, really money is your god. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-22-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, replied to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-22-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It's a little strange to hear the threat to the Islamic State from the party whose president said earlier that Islam is the last hope for humanity. You know that very well. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] That's weird and interesting. From the looks of it, Jobbik will continue exactly where he left off last week: he's rushing, he's slamming, trying to save the unsavory, he's trying with all kinds of cunning and explanation to undo the fact that he didn't vote for the amendment of the Fundamental Law. [[9.30]] To tell you the truth, I'm not surprised that they're rushing and slamming, but it's strange for a party claiming to be national not to represent the interests of the country, ignoring 3.3 million people's votes. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] He ignores the risks of forced resettlement, not to mention his own voters, to whom they also turned their backs. We have said this before, but I am very happy to repeat that the settlement policy was introduced at a time when Hungary was valued on international markets and did not obtain foreign resources. However, the Hungarian economy is now stable, and this is recognised by the credit rating agencies. This gives the government the opportunity to review all the bond schemes, including the settlement obligation. This review takes place according to a set schedule and is completely independent of any blackmail of Jobbik. By the way, I'm sorry for the many times that you are confusing an investment issue with illegal immigration, which, as you well know, carries very serious economic, social and other risks. By the way, you guys didn't have a problem with the settlement bond before. I would just like to remind you that János Volner was Vice-President of the Economic Commission at the Parliament, where he was at the time of the decision on the settlement bonds. [[Interview from Jobbik: He did not vote for it.]] You could have asked me a question, but you didn't do it at all. To tell you the truth, it is difficult to accept a lecture from a party that has refused almost all the principles it has previously confessed. Allow me to quote their 2014 election programme, where they said that Jobbik would even take on a real confrontation with Brussels for national interests. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks, including you.]] If we have to choose between our country and the interests of the Union, we will not be afraid to decide for our nation. So what happened? What happened here, honourable Member? A few days passed, a few months ago; they could have voted for the amendment of the Fundamental Law a few days ago; they could have sided with Hungary, instead they sided with Brussels. This party, which hasn't long been burning an EU flag, you can remember that. However, it is aggravating fact that the text of the amendment to the basic law has been accepted professionally in the negotiations. It also shows that what you're about to present is not for any other purpose but for party politics patting. It's not the first time that Jobbik has gone against its own principles, by the way. For example, Jobbik would have plowed up commercial TVs earlier, but now its politicians like to bask in tabloid shows. For example, they would have introduced Sunday free [[There's a lot of noise, there's interruptions in Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] They would have introduced Sunday free, it was also included in their electoral program, and then protested here in Parliament after a few months. Jobbik, Men, requires a programme of 40, which is not voted for by the Women 40. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches, among them: Yes!]] This is also the party that promises law enforcement, when it comes to parliamentary elections, and when there is a period between the two elections, it maintains contact with extremist organizations. [[Interview from Jobbik: János Áder's second cousin.]] Typically, the party who has fought hard against SZDSZ can now have the sympathy of Ferenc Kőszeg, and we congratulate you on this. [[Constant noise in Jobbik's benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] That's why, all in all, if there's a couple who can do anything for money and power, it's Jobbik. Honourable Congressman, It's a very, very confusing couple that can do anything and do the opposite. That's all, just not a national attitude. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-22-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Calm down, take back the background noise level a little, so that the speeches before the next agenda can take place properly. Mr Sallai R. Benedek made an application for a speech on the agenda from the LMP Group entitled 'Government of Franchise'. Congressman, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2016-11-22-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The OECD's recent study on the 2016 life index shows which country has the best life in the world. The research looked at 11 aspects of prosperity in 34 countries, including work-life balance, financial situation, security, education and environmental protection. What, unlike us, do those who do better? At 11th place in the study, the Netherlands, there is a high literacy rate, one of the best in the world. The average performance of Dutch students is outstanding in mathematical, scientific and text-interpretation tests. In Hungary, however, funding for education in proportion to GDP decreased after 2010. Today, our country is the last among the OECD countries, perhaps it is not a coincidence that, for example, we are the last among European countries in the digital context. In Iceland, 10th place, unemployment is now 2.6 percent, which is half as much as in Hungary, where in the form of cosmetics with public works programmes it is over 5.8 percent. I do not want many things to be an example to us from the United States in 9th place, but the average income per household in the US is 41 071 USD, so this is more than 11 million HUF at the rate of 285 HUF, which is about five times what Hungarian families would have. Finland in 8th place is also at the forefront of making a living on wages, with only 4 percent of workers forced to work overtime against the OECD average. In New Zealand, 7th place, attention is paid to their environment and health. On the other hand, our country is a European peak in cancer and its deaths, with one in four dying of cancer in the country. The Swedes in 6th place are actively involved in the country's affairs, 83 percent participated in the last elections, while your government failed to achieve a valid referendum after 20 billion. Canada provides its citizens with the most affordable housing compared to income, and Hungary is one of the hosts here. Switzerland is ranked 4th in the mature democracy, which we are not very proud of, and thanks to the unemployment rate of about 3.1 percent. Denmark, on the other hand, contributes to the happiness of its citizens in 3rd place with the proportion of high paid freedoms. A Danish national receives five weeks of paid leave each year, and full-time workers can also deal with their personal matters as 66 percent of the working day. In Australia, in second place, there is a strong sense of community, providing security for its inhabitants. 95 percent of your citizens feel safe. In Hungary, subjective well-being is the worst judged by people of all OECD countries, they do not feel comfortable in any field, in any respect, safe. Norway's 1st place is due to the highest number of jobs, high levels of education, and the life expectancy of 82 years. In this regard, Hungary is also an ascent, the average life expectancy is currently 75.7 years, which means that we live for more than 6 years less than a Norwegian citizen. Of course, they are all rich countries, so they need not be taken into account so much, and they need to be set an example of other countries. We can see who the Fidesz-KDNP is on the road with and where he's getting the role models. With regard to the agricultural holding structure, the Magos-Fidesz pact managed to push the share of the large estate in the South American direction with one of the worst EU averages. In this respect, the government's ownership policy appears to be a specific Venezuelan franchise. What happens to the press is the billions of government media called public media, or, if we remember Népszabadság, this is roughly the same as the press exercise in Putin, and not only the Russian nuclear technology, but also the Russian press freedom exercise in Hungary. President Erdogan's adaptation to the franchise of illiberal democracy has already been established, and from there we have learned the state set-up. Antal Rogán, Flórian Farkas is an esteemed member of the governing party, while civil society organisations known as Norwegian criminals are not suspended. So perhaps it is no coincidence that our country has won the title of the fifth most corrupt country in the top corruption rankings of developed countries. At home, 80 percent of young people say that it cannot be done without corruption, and 71 percent believe that business cannot be done in the country without political relations. Fidesz-KDNP is still using Juncker's offshore policy, and everything can be done here for fraudsters, but the Prime Minister himself is leading the way with these examples. In November 2014, he referred to Azerbaijan as a model state in Parliament, since then this model state has drifted to the brink of bankruptcy, and at the end of January this year he requested 3 billion aid from the IMF and 1 billion from the World Bank. In Baku, politics and economy are similar to domestic ones, such as the glamour of Lőrinc Mészáros is a true Azerbaijani franchise. It is also similar that the daughters of the modest President Aliyev are on their own feet and have a billion-dollar property in London. And obviously, the most characteristic is the importance of family ties, and this is a true Sicilian franchise in the Fidesz government. This is Fidesz franchising. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-11-22-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to the speech before the agenda. I would ask our entertaining fellow Members, if they do not want me to act in accordance with the relevant provisions of the house rules, I would not like to, then, very nicely, please allow the response to the speech before the agenda. [[9.40]]
u2016-11-22-15	Honourable Congressman, Thank you for raising these questions. However, I regret that you are also a partner in what the MSZP has started by making Hungarian citizens look like digital illiterates. This is unacceptable. It is also very strange that you are asking them why we have not achieved the standard of living that they have achieved in the Netherlands, Sweden or Denmark. I would like to inform you that these are countries where there were not 40 years of communism, but not even eight years of socialist amok running. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Why bring him back? Why bring communism back? But madness and murmuring in the pro-government ranks.]] This is a prelude, Congressman, which we cannot ignore, which cannot be ignored. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] You've made quite a few statements about the state of the country. I'm sorry for the fact that you've missed a few basic facts. For example, there are 680,000 more people working in Hungary compared to 2010. This is important because the fastest way out of poverty is to have a job. We can achieve the standard of living that you are referring to when everyone has a job and adequate wages for the first time. The economy is now stable and public debt is on a downward path. Nor can you argue that energy prices have been kept down permanently, the government has led to foreign exchange lending, and today 318 thousand children are given free meals. The home creation program has also started, in which a Hungarian family raising a child can receive up to HUF 10 million in support. The fact that the economy is stable also allows wage increases. That is why teachers, law enforcement workers, doctors, and - just to mention one - people working in district offices receive higher wages. Perhaps it is not indifferent to you that you are so sensitive to the standard of living that real wages in Hungary have increased by more than 7 percent in the first eight months of 2016. The government wants wages to grow permanently in Hungary. That is why there was a need for a comprehensive agreement between employers, workers and the government. I understand that this agreement has already been concluded, and that the minimum wage may increase by 15 percent in 2017, the minimum wage for skilled workers by 25 percent, employers' taxes may decrease by 5 percent, and corporate income tax may decrease to 9 percent. These are results that you may not dispute. The general objective of the government is to reduce taxes. This is the government of tax reductions, and we want to achieve wage increases through tax reductions. In other areas, taxes have been reduced in the past, and therefore the VAT on key foods has decreased to 15 percent, and therefore the VAT on internet services is reduced to 18 percent from January to 5 percent, and that is why the government has previously proposed a reduction in corporate tax; as I said, this could be Hungary's lowest corporate tax rate. You're talking about a lot of things here, but we don't really know what LMP would do for the good of the country. One thing we do know, however, is that this is the intention of the tax increase, because the LMP has put in a drastic tax increase plan, and would again drastically raise the key that the government has reduced. From the LMP 11-point program, it is clear that LMP has been able to cook up one of the most serious things so far, and this is a drastic tax increase. I would like to say to you that if LMP forces this tax increase programme, it will put enormous burdens on the Hungarian middle class again and on the shoulders of the LMP voters as well. One thing is certain that the government will stand by the tax reduction policy, and we will do everything in our power to keep more in the pockets of Hungarian families. We would like Hungary to continue to grow, and in this we will continue to count on the support of all parliamentary parties. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-22-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Attila Tilki, from the Fidesz Group, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-11-22-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In June 1943 Molotov, Foreign Affairs Commissioner, wrote to the British Ambassador in Moscow: "The Soviet Government believes that the Hungarian government should bear the responsibility not only for the Hungarian government, but also for the Hungarian people to a lesser or greater extent. The direct consequence of revenge was that on 12 November 1944, the fourth Ukrainian Front Military Council Resolution 0036 ordered the arrest and transport of thousands of Transcarpathians into camps. Between 14 and 16 November 1944, the purpose of the decision was to register soldiers and officers who served in the German and Hungarian armies and, most importantly, to register persons of German and Hungarian nationality between 18 and 50 years of age. After registration, all men between 18 and 50 years of age were carried with convoy escorts and marching columns into camps for prisoners of war. For his male population in Transcarpathia, the collection camp in Solyva was appointed. We remembered the removal of the Hungarian male population of Transcarpathia in November 1944 on Saturday in Szolyván, a memorial park established at the site of the former assembly camp of the deportees. In the park inaugurated in November 1994, the names of 5500 martyrs are recorded on the memorial plaques of 120 Hungarian-lakta settlements equipped with the name of the folklore. Their only crime was their origin: they were Hungarians. The application of the principle of collective guilt was carried out by the NKVD troops with great zeal, and by December 1944 Solyva was filled with bewildered, desperate, lost hope. According to the reports of 17 December 1944, 15 152 people from Transcarpathia, Csonka-Bereg and three villages in Satmár were carried to Solyvar, 14 990 Hungarians and 162 other nationalities, German, Rusin, Ukrainian, Slovak, Czech and Romanian. The experience gained during the arrest of the Hungarian and German male population in Transcarpathia was used by the NKVD in drawing up Resolution 7161 of 16 December 1944, which was signed by Stalin himself. This infamous decision provided that men aged 17-45 and women aged 18-30 should be deported to the gulag for work in areas conquered by the Soviet Union. Tragedies in the Solyva camp No. 2, the Solyva camp were mainly caused by epidemics, inadequate nutrition, medical and drug shortages, exhausting work. From December 1944 onwards, as a result of flekk- and hastyphus, throat lizards, dysentery, prisoners of war and interns who had been ordered to perform reconstruction work were severely weakened due to permanent malnutrition, the operation of the assembly camp was actually paralyzed. The end of December 1944 and the beginning of 45 [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] It was the most dramatic period of the 2nd Solyva collection camp. Almost all interns and prisoners of war were detained in the assembly camp. The survivors were later dragged to Szambor Stary, then to the internal areas of the Soviet Union, and also to slave camps set up in Donbas, Luhansk, and other regions, due to the recent war events. Indefinite lines snuck through the Carpathian Passes through the snow to the knees, and then they were dragged into cattle carriages without judgment into death. However, the unbridled rage of the Soviet power did not stop at the borders of Trianon: from the vicinity of Vásárosnamény, from the 20 villages of Csonka-Bereg, and from three villages in Satmar, Milota, Tiszabecs and Uska he also carried men to Solyva. This is where the heroics of Lieutenant Tibor Kecskesi Tollas, who in the spring of 1945 learned that the Soviet Union wanted to oculate the three villages of Satmar and the twenty villages of Bereg. This is what Ferenc Nagy meant to the then Prime Minister, and the Allied Audit Committee has succeeded in stopping the Soviet ocupation. Thank you, Tibor Kecskei Tollas. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. It's constant, it's loud.]]
u2016-11-22-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. I do not know, fellow Members, if many have noticed what the debate was about. What was the congressman talking about? A very important and painful part of our national history. I think we should have listened to it with much, much more attention and humility. So I'm asking you all to take your seats, try to look inside and wait for the answer. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[9.50]] I also ask the pro-government representatives to take their seats. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to Mr Attila Tilki's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-22-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, How grave a tragedy this is in the life of the Hungarians, if we put the train trains, the cattle wagons on which our countrymen were taken to the Soviet Union at the end of the Second World War, then the first car of this imaginary train would be in Debrecen and the last would be in Székesfehérvár. And I'm driving all the way between him and 60 of our Hungarian countrymen who were dragged to the gulag. 800,000 people were taken from Hungary, all 12 Hungarians were taken away and forced to work in the Soviet Union. In Transcarpathia, this rate is even more terrible, where one in five people were dragged away, one in five people turned around this assembly camp in Solyva, and they were moved from there to Siberia, one of the hundreds or thousands of forced labor camps. This means that every Hungarian family in Transcarpathia has a martyr, unfortunately, who has been taken away and taken to forced labour. We call it forced labour, but we could also call it slavery, because it is no different from what happened in ancient times, or it is no different from what happened in America even before the liberation of slaves. After all, these people were taken away by force, they did not commit any kind of crime, they did not deserve any punishment, they were simply caught on the street by chance or somewhere, because they had to fulfill a quota that they had to take 100 or 150 people from that settlement, they were gathered together, they were taken away, and for ten years their families didn't even know where they were. Therefore, obviously, they received no wages, no pay, no human care, as they said, only their number had to be accounted for, who the person was, in particular, completely secondary. That is why we have an obligation to remember them, even because for forty years, a word could not be said about them. In fact, those who returned were also told that they would not talk about it, that if they spoke one word, they would be able to return to many other places, including Kistarcsa, Recsk, Hortobágy, or even where they had taken people in the country who were undesirable in that system. Since this could not be discussed for forty years, it is now our duty and duty to speak twice and three times about their suffering and sacrifice, since they have done this slave work in inhumane circumstances. That's why the Gulag Memorial Year that the government announced was important. One of the most recent events of this was in Szolyván, as a week and a half ago there was a national pilgrimage from young Hungarian schoolchildren and gulag survivors, where representatives of today's young people and the survivors of the gulag met figuratively, and they may have spent a day with each other to give a taste of the period when the Soviets ruled in Hungary and their communist allies, and anyone could be taken out of anyone's confessions, and without committing any kind of crime, could be condemned to slave labor for a decade. This was important, as much to young people as to former survivors, for he showed that their memory would not be forgotten, that their sacrifice, their suffering, was an important and not silent part of the nation's history. But in addition to that, we wanted at least one monument to capture the memory of these people in every Hungarian settlement from which someone was dragged to the gulag. Thus, memorial tablets, commemorative conferences, publications, local events are created in 250 settlements that help to remember these people. There are dozens of pilgrimage and study trips, more than half a hundred exhibitions, more than half a hundred conferences; in many other countries, of course, these are taking place, as we host gulag commemorative events in dozens of foreign countries, unconventional history lessons and lectures in half a century, publications and books in more than two hundred copies, plaques, as I said, even though 200-250 sites are organized. There is an exhibition about the country, which shows the living conditions of the former barracks, a camping tunnel showing the cattle wagons in which these people were transported abroad, while many of them apparently lost their lives. It is important that some of the more than 100-year-old survivors also make memorial films, such as Ottó Koós, but it is important to renovate the birthplace of Béla Kovács in Pécs, to create a memorial museum of the Transcarpathian monument of Soviet terror in Ungvár, historical pilgrimage trips to the site of the Málenki robot with historians, survivors, the memorial exhibitions of Hungarian communities in Transylvania, memorial plaques of Hungarian communities in Vojvodina, the renovation of part of the memorial park in Solyva, the creation of the monument of priestss carried to the gulag. I could say for a long time the various initiatives that we are trying to recall the 800,000 fellow citizens we have carried to the gulag. Thank you, Mr President, for remembering them here in Parliament. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-22-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. We will now continue our work with decisions. Please take your seats and check that your card has been properly placed in the voting machine. The 2003 LXXX on legal aid follows. T/1271 on the amendment of Act T/1271 on procedural issues and certain laws Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/12719/6. T/12719/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Gergely Bárándy. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 61 votes in favour, 126 against and without abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/12719/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 124 votes in favour, 32 against and 31 abstentions. I declare that the rapporteur has initiated in writing to postpone the final vote. I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to explain the reasons for his initiative. [[Dr. Pál Völner says no.]] He doesn't want it. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, House rules are 51. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act, Parliament decides to postpone the final vote without debate. I ask you, on the basis of your initiative, whether T/12719 will be postponed. Final vote of bill No 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament postponed the final vote by 158 votes to 29, with three abstentions. Following is the T/12698 on the announcement of the Air Transport Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Australia. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12698. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill with 191 votes in favour, no votes against, with 1 abstention. [[10.00]] It follows from the publication of the enhanced Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Kazakhstan, of the other part, T/12724. Final vote of bill No 1. I would like to inform you that the rapporteur is T/12724/2. has submitted an adjustment, which was available to all of them on the network. Since no amendment has been proposed to summarise the proposal, we are now deciding on an adapted text of the proposed legislation. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12724. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the adjusted bill with 192 votes in favour, with 1 vote in favour, without voting against. Following is T/12371 on the amendment of certain laws relating to tobacco control. Decision on the proposal for an amendment before the final vote on the legislative proposal and the final vote. In view of the fact that the Parliament has already decided to postpone the final vote on the 8 November meeting, the rapporteur T/12371/13. A proposal for an amendment to the final vote was tabled. The legislative committee's proposal for amendment before the final vote T/12371/14. and T12371/15, before the final vote. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. The house rules are 55. On the basis of paragraph 1 of Section 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the Parliament shall decide on a proposal for amendment before the final vote by a single vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/12371/14. Proposal for an amendment before the final vote. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment before the final vote 160 yes, 33 votes not, without abstention. After the Parliament has adopted the amendment before the final vote, we will decide on the amended single proposal in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the amended T12371/11. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] It follows that T/12741 on the amendment of certain tax laws and other related laws will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/12741/14 and T/12741/15. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the LMP Group proposed the continuation of amendments No 8 and 9 and Jobbik Group No 7. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 8 is the motion of István Ikotity. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 68 votes in favour, 125 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 9 is also the motion of István Ikotity. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 61 votes in favour, 130 votes in favour and 2 votes in favour. Amendment 7 is proposed by Mr János Volner, Head of the Group. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 61 votes in favour, 130 votes in favour and 3 votes in favour. As the Parliament did not hold up an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/12741/14. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment with 132 votes in favour, 34 votes in favour and 28 votes in favour. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12741/18. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] Dear Parliament, The year 1952 on the Civil Procedure III follows. Act 1 and Act CXXIV of 2015 on National Accreditation T/12697 amending Act No. Final vote of bill No 1. However, in the light of a request for action, we must also decide to maintain a proposal for an amendment. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, Jobbik's group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is a proposal from Member György Szilágyi. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 62 votes in favour, 129 votes in favour and 2 votes in favour. As the Parliament did not hold up a proposal for an amendment, nor did any amendments to the proposal, we decided on the text of the bill submitted in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12697. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 158 votes, 32 votes against and 3 abstentions. It follows that T/12475 on the amendment of certain laws concerning administrative bureaucracy reduction will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/12475/7, and T/12475/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/12475/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment with 133 votes in favour, 32 votes in favour, 27 votes in favour. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12475/9. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 128 votes in favour, 33 votes in favour and 31 votes in favour. It follows that T/12731 on the amendment of certain laws governing the regulation of education. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/12731/32. T/12731/33. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[10.10]] I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraphs (4) of Section 4 of the MSZP Group, the Group of the Jobbik Group proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 3, 4 and 23. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 6 is proposed by István Hiller and Ágnes Kunhalmi. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 39 votes in favour, 129 against and 24 abstentions. Amendment 7 is also proposed by István Hiller and Ágnes Kunhalmi. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 44 votes in favour, 125 against and 24 abstentions. Amendment 22 is proposed by Vice-President István Hiller. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 65 votes in favour, 127 against and without abstention. Amendment 3 is proposed by Dóra Dúró. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 31 votes in favour, 128 against and 34 abstentions. Amendment 4 is also proposed by Mrs Dóra Dúró. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 24 votes in favour, 135 against and 33 abstentions. Amendment 23 is proposed by Dóra Dúró and Gergely Farkas. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 28 votes in favour, 129 against and 36 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained a proposal for an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/12731/32. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 128 votes in favour, 36 against and 29 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12731/36. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] Next up is T/12729 on the amendment of certain health and health insurance laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/12729/6. T/12729/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, Jobbik's group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we're voting on first. Amendment 2 is proposed by László György Lukács. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 30 votes in favour, 128 against and 34 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/12729/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 156 votes in favour, 35 against and without abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12729/9. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 156 votes in favour, 36 against and without abstentions. Next up is the T/12696 on the Defence Sports Federation. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The summation of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment T/12696/6 and T/12696/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/12696/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 155 votes in favour, 4 votes against and 32 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12696/8. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 154 votes in favour, 3 votes against and 35 abstentions. Following the 2011 Environmental Product Award LXXXV. T/12367 on the amendment of the Act Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/12367/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/123675. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 127 votes in favour, 36 against and 30 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12367/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 129 votes in favour, 58 against and 6 abstentions. It follows that T/12590 on the amendment of certain laws in the context of the prevention and management of the introduction or introduction of invasive alien species. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T12590/11 of the legislative committee's proposal and its summary report T/12590/12. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the LMP Group proposed that amendments Nos 2, 5 and 6 be maintained. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Mr Benedek. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 63 votes in favour, 129 against and 1 abstention. [[10.20]] Amendment 5 is proposed by Mr Benedek. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 64 votes in favour, 130 against and no abstentions. Amendment 6 is also proposed by Mr Benedek. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 66 votes in favour, 126 against and 1 abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/12590/11. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 135 votes in favour, 29 against and 30 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12590/14. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 159 votes to 31, with four abstentions. Dear Parliament, We now have the T/11900 on civil procedure. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/11900/21. T-1900/22. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the Group of the LMP proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 6, 14 and 16. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 6 is proposed by Mr Benedek and Mr Hadházy. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 66 votes in favour, 127 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 14 is also proposed by Sallai R. Benedek and Ákos Hadházy. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 63 votes in favour, 130 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 16 was proposed by Ákos Hadházy. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 63 votes in favour, 128 against and 2 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/11900/21. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 125 votes in favour, 36 against and 33 abstentions. The final vote follows. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/11900/24. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 130 votes to 31, with 33 abstentions. Next up is the 1995 XCVII on aviation. T/12591. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The summation of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment T/12591/5, and its summary report T/12591/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/12591/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 155 votes to 31, with 8 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12591/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 154 votes in favour, 33 against and 8 abstentions. Following is the T/12721 on the amendment of certain climate policy and green economy development laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/1272/19. T/12721/10. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1272/19. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly is the summation of the amendment proposal adopted by 131 votes to 35, with 29 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1272/11. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 131 votes in favour, 36 against and 28 abstentions. It follows that T/12734 on the free transfer of certain state-owned and municipal property. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/12734/7. T/12734/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. According to paragraph 2 of Section T/12734/7, the Group of the Fidesz Group is entitled "T/12734/7." A separate vote was initiated on point 1 of the summary amendment proposal. First, we will decide on this and then we will decide on further points in the summary amendment proposal. In point 1 of the summarised amendment proposal, the Committee shall adopt a new section of the bill. The Commission proposes to supplement it with paragraph 1. At the request of the Fidesz Group, we will decide separately. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 1 of the summarised amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not accept the amendment without a vote, 161 against and 32 abstentions. [[10.30]] We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/12734/7. The additional points of the proposed amendment are set out in the table below. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the remaining points of the summary amendment by 154 votes in favour, 1 against and 38 abstentions. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that Parliament has not just adopted all the points of the summarised amendment proposal, in the final vote we will decide on the text of the bill, as amended by the agreed points of the summarised amendment. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12734. Changed bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the amended bill by 154 votes in favour, 2 against and 38 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We now decide on the inclusion of a series of proposals. I would like to remind you that yesterday the Parliament has already negotiated this. I am asking you whether you will be included in a series of articles on the measures needed by the head of the Tóth Bertalan MSZP faction and its fellow Members to address the refugee crisis, H/12353. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution in a series of 66 votes in favour, 128 against and 1 abstention. I would like to ask you if you will include Z. Kárpát in a series of articles CXXVII of 2007 on general sales tax in order to reduce the VAT burden on children and other products, by our better fellow Member and fellow Members Dániel Z. Kárpát. T/12070. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the bill with 68 votes in favour, 125 against and 1 abstention. The 2011 CXIII on defence and the Hungarian Defence Forces and the measures that can be implemented in the special legal order follows. T/12694. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/12694/5, and T/12694/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Márta Demeter and our fellow Members Tamás Harangozó. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The MSZP Group proposed that Amendment 2 be maintained. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Márta Demeter and our fellow Members Tamás Harangozó. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 59 votes in favour, 130 against and 5 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to draw your attention to the need for a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/12694/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 156 votes in favour, 38 against and 5 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that T/12694/8. The cardinality provision of the single proposal set out the scope of the provisions requiring a qualified majority. Their adoption requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12694/8. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 155 votes in favour, 42 against and 1 abstention. We are now deciding on the parts of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12694/8. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 154 votes in favour, 39 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 2004 Annex XVIII on wine production and wine management. Act and CCXIX of 2012 on Mountain Villages. T/12230 on the amendment of Act T/1273. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/12730/11 and T/12730/12. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the LMP Group proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 3 and 4. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Mr Sallai R. Benedek. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 63 votes in favour, 131 against and without abstention. Amendment 4 is also proposed by Mr Sallai R. Benedek. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 64 votes in favour, 127 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of point 3, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/12730/11. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 188 votes in favour, 5 against and 5 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/12730/11. A simple majority of the points of the summary amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted further points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 190 votes in favour, no votes against, with four abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that T/12730/14. The cardinality provision of the single proposal set out the scope of the provisions requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. [[10.40]] I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12730/14. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 191 votes in favour, 4 votes against and 3 abstentions. We will now decide on a simple majority of the single proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12730/14. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the provisions requiring a simple majority by 190 votes in favour, with four abstentions, without voting against. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 1994 XXXIV on Police. Act T/12714, amending Act C of 2003 on electronic communications Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/12714/15 and T/12714/16. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the LMP Group proposed to maintain the 8th and Jobbik Group's amendments No 2 and 3. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 8 is proposed by Bernadett Szél. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 62 votes in favour, 131 votes against and 1 abstention. Amendment 2 is proposed by Adam Mirkóczki. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 60 votes in favour, 130 votes against and four abstentions. Amendment 3 is also proposed by Adam Mirkóczki. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 63 votes in favour, 129 votes against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a qualified majority is required for the adoption of point 6. [[Noise.]] I ask my fellow Members to listen to what I have to say. I would like to inform you that points 6 and 8 of the summarised amendment are linked, but in view of the different voting rates, these are decided separately. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/12714/15. Point 6 which requires a majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted point 6 of the summary amendment by 155 votes in favour, 43 votes in favour and no abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/12714/15. Point 8 of its summary amendment proposal, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted point 8 of the summary amendment by 155 votes in favour, 35 votes against and 5 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/12714/15. A simple majority of the additional points of the summary amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the remaining points of the summary amendment by 155 votes in favour, 35 votes against and 5 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that T/12714/18. The cardinality provision of the single proposal set out the scope of the provisions requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/12714/18. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 155 votes in favour, 44 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on the parts of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12714/18. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the provisions requiring a simple majority by 155 votes in favour, 40 votes against and no abstentions. [[Noise, more congressmen stand up.]] Dear Parliament, I would ask my fellow Members to remain seated, preferably sitting. Wait for me to read out all the information they need so that they can legally do it and cast their votes outside the Danube corridor. [[Dr. Tóth turning to Bertalan:]] Mr. Team Leader, I'm particularly asking you to stay where you are and keep your faction there. The election of the four members and the President of the Constitutional Court by secret ballot follows. Allow me to pay tribute to the candidates and their family members, the members of the Constitutional Court, all the permanent guests of the Parliament, who will attend our meeting today. [[A round of applause from the governing parties and the Jobbik benches. MSZP representatives are leaving the room.]] Dear Parliament, The Committee for the Election of Members of the Constitutional Court is the CLI of 2011 on the Constitutional Court. Act No. 7 On the basis of the proposal of the President of the Parliament pursuant to paragraph 1 of Section S/12970. In its proposal for a parliamentary decision, Dr. Ildikó Marosi, Dr. Attila Horváth, Dr. Balázs Schanda and Dr. Marcel Szabó are proposed to be a member of the Constitutional Court with effect from 1 December 2016. [[10.50]] S/12970. In its proposal for a parliamentary decision, Dr. Ildikó Marosi, Dr. Attila Horváth, Dr. Balázs Schanda and Dr. Marcel Szabó are proposed to be a member of the Constitutional Court with effect from 1 December 2016. (10.50) I inform you that the Speaker of Parliament is S/12968. Mr. Tamás Sulyok proposed to become President of the Constitutional Court today. Dear Parliament, The Judicial Committee has heard and supported candidates for the Constitutional Court. The resolutions on this and the biography of the candidates could be found on the website. Parliament elects the members of the Constitutional Court for 12 years with two-thirds of the votes of the Members of Parliament. The National Assembly elects the President of the Constitutional Court by voting two thirds of the Members of Parliament. The term of office of the President shall run until the end of the term of office of the Constitutional Court. In both cases, voting under the parliamentary law is classified. Dear Parliament, The secret ballot process is as follows. The representative ladies and gentlemen can take the ballots in four groups in alphabetical order according to the names of the Members in the corridor on the Danube. I would like to inform you that in the sectors, you can receive five ballots of different colours and one envelope. Please confirm the fact of receipt on the sheets placed at the tables. I ask you to use the polling booths at the end of the corridor during the vote. I ask you to place your nomination on the ballot paper in the box 'yes', 'no' or 'no'. Now I would like to ask Mr László Földi to briefly explain the rules of the vote, and my fellow Members will continue to be honored to listen to the notary's reading sitting in their seats. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2016-11-22-21	Dear Parliament, The only way to vote is with the official ballots. Only what has been cast on the candidate on the ballot paper shall be deemed to be valid, with two incisive lines in squares, which are adjacent to his name. The vote on which the Member has voted shall not be valid and shall not be beyond reasonable doubt. The vote that was not cast on the official ballot paper, which lacks the stamp, or if the voter takes the ballot, but does not throw it into the ballot box, is null and void. I would like to inform you that if anyone fails to fill out the ballot paper, the members of the ballot counting committee at the ballot box will include it and replace it with a new card.
u2016-11-22-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, During the voting period, only Members of Parliament and members of the working group involved in voting may remain in the Danube corridor of the Chamber. I declare that 30 minutes are available to cast the votes. Now it's 10:54, so it's 11 hours and 24 minutes to cast the votes. Now, for the duration of the secret vote and evaluation, I'm ordering a total of 50 minutes' recess. Thank you very much. Please vote in the hallway. [[Break: 10.54 11.59President: Dr. János LatorcaiPublik: István Ikotity and Dr. Lajos Szűcs]]
u2016-11-22-23	I call on my fellow Members to take their seats. I ask for your patience and understanding. As soon as you take your seats, we will resume our session. [[A moment's pause.]] Dear Parliament, I declare that the ballot counting committee has completed its work. It concluded that 138 Members took part in the secret ballot. The notaries concluded that the voting procedure was valid and effective for the candidates. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] Dr. Hörcherné voted for Dr. Ildikó Marosi on the number of ballot papers found in the urn by 138 representatives. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] Their distribution is as follows: the number of invalid votes 0, the number of valid votes 138; the number of votes yes, the number of votes no 2, the number of votes abstention 0. Dr. Hörcherné Dr. Ildikó Marosi was elected member of the Constitutional Court with effect from 1 December 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, On the person of Dr. Attila Horváth, 138 representatives cast their votes based on the number of ballot papers found in the urn. Their distribution is as follows: the number of invalid votes 0 is the number of valid votes 138. Of this, the number of votes in favour is 136, the number of votes in favour is 2 and the number of votes in favour is 0. Dr. Attila Horváth was elected member of the Constitutional Court with effect from 1 December 2016. On the person of Dr. Balázs Schanda, 138 representatives cast their votes based on the number of ballot papers found in the urn. Their distribution is as follows: the number of invalid votes 0, the number of valid votes 138; the number of votes yes, the number of votes no 2, the number of votes abstention 0. The National Assembly elected Dr. Balázs Schanda as member of the Constitutional Court with effect from 1 December 2016. Dear Parliament, According to the number of ballot papers found in the urn, 138 members voted for Dr. Marcel Szabó. Their distribution is as follows: the number of invalid votes is 1, the number of valid votes is 137; the number of votes is 135; the number of votes is not 2; the number of votes abstention is 0. Dr. Marcel Szabó was elected member of the Constitutional Court with effect from 1 December 2016. On behalf of Dr. Tamás Sulyok, 138 Members cast their votes based on the number of ballot papers found in the urn. Their distribution is as follows: the number of invalid votes is 0, the number of valid votes is 138; of which the number of votes is 137, the number of votes is not 1, the number of votes abstention is 0. The National Assembly elected Dr. Tamás Sulyok as President of the Constitutional Court today. Dear Parliament, Now the solemn oath of the new members and the President of the Constitutional Court and the signature of the oaths. [[12.00]] First, the members of the Constitutional Court will take an oath. I call on the newly elected members of the Constitutional Court to come to the centre of the Chamber. I ask Dr. Hörcherné Dr. Ildikó Marosi, Dr. Attila Horváth, Dr. Balázs Schanda and Dr. Marcel Szabó to take their oath. I ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to read the oath text after the new members take their place in the horseshoe and are ready to take the oath, and the Members of Parliament will stand up and listen to it according to our custom. Please, notary, read the words of the oath. [[The people in this room stand up. Dr. Hörcherné Dr. Ildikó Marosi, Dr. Attila Horváth, Dr. Balázs Schanda and Dr. Marcel Szabó step into the center of the room. Dr. Lajos Szűcs reads the words of the oath.]]
u2016-11-22-24	I, Dr. Hörcherné Dr. Ildikó Marosi/Dr. Attila Horváth/dr. Balázs Schanda/dr. Marcel Szabó I vow to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, to keep its legislation and to keep it with others; to exercise my position as judge of the Constitution for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God.
u2016-11-22-25	Thank you very much. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats. Now I ask Mr József Attila Móring to prepare the oath papers for signature, and I ask the elected members of the Constitutional Court to sign them. [[It's happening. Attila Móring József, who signed the oath document, congratulates Dr. Dr. Ildikó Marosi, Dr. Attila Horváth, Dr. Balázs Schanda and Dr. Marcel Szabó, and gives a copy of the signed oath documents. Dr. Hörcherné to Dr. Ildikó Marosi, Dr. Attila Horváth, Dr. Balázs Schanda and Dr. Marcel Szabó Erzsébet Schmuck, János Volner, Lajos Kósa, Zsolt Semjén, Péter Harrach, Dr. László Trócsányi, Viktor Orbán, Bernadett Szél, Dr. Ákos Hadházy and László Kövér congratulated.]] Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of the Parliament and myself, to congratulate Dr. Dr. Ildikó Marosi, Dr. Attila Horváth, Dr. Balázs Schanda and Dr. Marcel Szabó on their election as members of the Constitutional Court. I wish you good work and good luck. I now invite Mr István Ikotity to present the parliamentary decision on the election of members of the Constitutional Court to be published. Mr. Messenger, you have the floor.
u2016-11-22-26	Parliament's decision to elect four members of the Constitutional Court. The National Assembly elects Dr. Dr. Ildikó Marosi, Dr. Attila Horváth, Dr. Balázs Schanda and Dr. Marcel Szabó as members of the Constitutional Court with effect from 1 December 2016.
u2016-11-22-27	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary.
u2016-11-22-28	Sorry, one more sentence...
u2016-11-22-29	This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. Dear Parliament, It is now time to take an oath by the President of the Constitutional Court. I call on the newly elected President of the Constitutional Court to come to the centre of the Chamber. I would ask Dr. Tamás Sulyok to take his oath, and I would ask Mr. Lajos Szűcs to read out the vows, and I would once again respectfully ask Parliament to listen to the oath as usual. [[The people in this room stand up. Dr. Tamás Sulyok steps into the middle of the room. Dr. Lajos Szűcs reads the words of the oath.]] [[12.10]]
u2016-11-22-30	I, Dr. Tamás Sulyok, vow to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, to keep its legislation and to keep it with others; to exercise my office as President of the Constitutional Court for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God.
u2016-11-22-31	I ask Mr József Attila Móring to prepare the oath document for signature, and I ask the President-elect of the Constitutional Court to sign it. [[It's happening. Attila Móring, who signed the oath document, congratulates Dr. Tamás Sulyok and gives a copy of the signed oath document. Dr. Tamás Sulyok was first to Viktor Orbán, then Dr. Zsolt Semjén, Lajos Kósa, Dr. László Trócsányi, Péter Harrach, Erzsébet Schmuck, Dr. Ákos Hadházy and János Volner congratulated him.]] Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of Parliament and myself, to congratulate Dr. Tamás Sulyok on the election of the President of the Constitutional Court. I'm in pain for a successful job and good luck, Mr. President. I ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the parliamentary decision on the election of the President of the Constitutional Court to be published.
u2016-11-22-32	Parliament's decision to elect the President of the Constitutional Court. According to Article 24 (8) of the Fundamental Law, the National Assembly elects Dr. Tamás Sulyok as President of the Constitutional Court. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption.
u2016-11-22-33	Dear Parliament, I thank our guests for their participation. We've reached the end of the decisions, and now we're taking a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break. Several Members leave the room.]] [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2016-11-22-34	Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, My fellow Members, please take your seats, we will continue our work. Thank you for your understanding. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the bill on the publication of the Air Transport Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the State of Qatar will follow. Government referral T/12913. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr.László Tasó, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, the rapporteur of the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2016-11-22-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the bill is to integrate the agreement between the Government of Hungary and the State of Qatar into the Hungarian legal order. Pursuant to the Act on Procedures for International Contracts, it is necessary to publish the Agreement at a legal level. The Agreement was signed by the Parties in Doha on 10 October 2016. An air transport agreement between Qatar and Hungary was concluded in 2002, which was not published at the time. From a legal point of view, the publication of the agreement was not possible after accession to the Union because it was not fully in line with Community standards. However, given that the two parties have signed the agreement, we have also applied it. There is a direct air link between the two countries between Budapest and Doha, Qatar Airways is operating. The agreement covers rules for the operation of flights, cooperation between aviation authorities and coordination of aviation security measures. The agreement will facilitate the contribution of air transport to economic cooperation between the two countries, including the development of trade and cultural relations. On the one hand, the Agreement complies with EU standards and, on the other hand, allows the launch of scheduled passenger and freight flights between any international commercial airport in both countries within a modern, liberalised framework. Dear Parliament, I would ask you to adopt the proposal and support the publication of the agreement. Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-22-36	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-11-22-37	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The Fidesz Group agrees with the aim of this bill. We support the publication of the Air Transport Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Qatar. The mandate of the Government of the Republic of Hungary to establish a bilateral air transport agreement with the Government of the Republic of Hungary and the Government of the State of Qatar to open bilateral negotiations on the agreement is 70/2011. Prime Minister's decision gave me the authority. The Minister for National Development shall be the Minister for National Development under Rule 1585/2014. On the basis of a government decision, Dr. István Elter authorised the Doha Ambassador to sign the agreement, which took place this year in Doha on 10 October 2016, as Mr. State Secretary has just described. We support the publication of the agreement by the Fidesz fraction. In our view, it is appropriate to establish it in order to ensure the legal background of scheduled flights between countries. The Agreement covers rules for the operation of flights in air traffic between the two countries, cooperation between aviation authorities and coordination of aviation safety measures. The signed agreement will facilitate the contribution of air transport to economic cooperation between the two countries, to the development of trade and human relations. I ask the Parliament with respect to support the bill submitted, to support the announcement of the agreement. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-22-38	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Árpád Velez, the lead speaker of the group of the MSZP. Here you go, Congressman. [[12.20]]
u2016-11-22-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The purpose of the bill is to publish by law the Air Transport Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Qatar. The agreement complies with EU standards and allows regular passenger and freight flights between any international commercial airport in both countries to be launched. The agreement includes clauses on bilateral air service agreements between Member States and the European Commission, drawn up and agreed jointly between Member States and third countries, including the designation and withdrawal of airlines. The establishment of the agreement can have a positive impact on the Hungarian-Catarian relations as a whole, which can clearly have a positive impact in the economic, tourism, cultural and educational fields. Therefore, the Hungarian Socialist Party's parliamentary group supports the adoption of the proposal. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-22-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Ander Balázs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-11-22-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to tell you a big secret, obviously the Jobbik Group will support this proposal, since the primary aim of Jobbik is to increase both tourism, passenger traffic and freight traffic in relation to both countries. If we are thinking of Qatar, it should be mentioned here that the small state on the Persian Gulf peninsula, because, in terms of its territory, with its area of less than 10 thousand square kilometres, one-nineth of Hungary's population is barely more than 2 million, but it is important to know that it is one of the richest countries in the world, as GDP per capita has crossed the limit of 100 thousand dollars already in 2012, while in Hungary we are actually moving only around the amount of 10 thousand dollars - unfortunately, I add. So if there is a perspective between the two countries, let us say, in terms of trade relations, then I think we have something to look for here with Qatar, especially when we realize what a terrible huge natural gas and oil asset they are sitting on, from which they have been able to build up this huge income, this great wealth. I think that Hungary could offer this state products such as agriculture, food processing and food products, which could break into this market, and to do so, the closer linking of these relations should be of paramount interest. However, we must see and always say in relation to any such bill that we are saddened to see that while other states, other countries, give priority to their own air transport companies, we cannot say this in Hungary, as there is no such thing. Let's just think about the tragedy, the calvary of the Malév. I do not want to open up a new debate here, but that is not the purpose of the whole proposal, but it should be mentioned that Jobbik had made the report both in relation to the privatisation of Malév and in relation to its liquidation. The fact that it's been laid is that it hasn't turned out to be anything, and we've gotten where we've gotten in this area, I don't think it's our fault. It is necessary to refer here to the parallel that was given to Qatar, as this country, which won its independence in 1971, as it had previously been a British protectorate, was able to set up in 1993 an airline that, according to Skytrax's opinion, was the world's number one aviation company in 2011 and 2012, could win this award, actually earning the five stars within its category. We can talk about a real multinational company in Qatar Airways, because the 150,000 workers who are under its supervision come out of the sons and daughters of about a hundred nations, have about 150 destination goals, and the fleet of machinery is impressive, because they operate 130 aircraft. So if we compare a Qatari example of such a company from scratch with the Hungarian tragedy, then I think that we are going to go back to things that we should think about. The other thing to say, even in the case of Malév, is that we obviously know that an indirect capital injection could not have been granted to the company, which would have violated EU rules, but Jobbik did not argue this at the time, and we said that a sectoral advantage should be granted and that this should be the way to save Malév, not to let foreign airlines actually fight over Malév's ruins, and to raisin themselves out those profitable and profitable flights which they have selected for themselves. In addition, what must be mentioned is that Ferihegy is the country's gate, and it doesn't matter what it is that, let's say, a tourist from such a rich, rich state is faced with, because the first impression is very important in this case as well. In many cases, however, they are welcomed by Balkan states, because even now, in the spring of the year, we were able to meet a press report saying that a taxi hyena, without a bill, asked for almost HUF 16,000 for a ride from a person who made himself a foreign tourist to a simple Gellért Inn. The government has all the means to strike hard, if necessary, to put order in this sector, as order would also be required by the honest-working taxie society, as well as country prestige, which is not the last aspect at all. I mean, if these press reports come up that you've been tricked, they've actually picked on tourists coming here, then I think we're gonna give this country such a bad name that it doesn't require any particular explanation here. On the one hand, order should therefore be made here, and on the other hand, access to the Liszt Ferenc International Airport should be facilitated. There is also a need to talk about the publication of such an international convention, that there are serious problems with the road leading to it; what is now, so to speak, renovation, is nothing more than a simple wrinkle lift, and the population of Vecsés, Monor, Üllő, or Gyömrő may rightly feel that they are put in front of a traffic vegan tour every day that they deserve more than they deserve. Otherwise, it would be necessary to regulate the traffic restrictions and the traffic that are otherwise extremely burdensome for Budapest transport, which would, for example, resolve the need for level crossings to allow traffic to flow more easily here. We hear, we hear that there will be a railway to Ferihegy, but, however, Mr. Secretary of State - I see you watching me with interest - I would like to find out at some point why such a 100 billion forint cost was planned for this. I don't think we should kill jungles. I don't think we should drain swamps. [[István Szávay: Viaduct!]] That's right, we would have to build viaducts, or we would have to drill through huge mountains to make this investment happen. So here, too, we suspect a thorough overpricing, which, in due time, we will obviously say no to Jobbik. However, we can fully support this agreement. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Laszlo Tasó applauds.]]
u2016-11-22-42	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Since the independent Members do not take part in the debate and no one has applied for a two-minute speech, we now have a speech from Congresswoman Mónika Dunai in a normal time frame. I give you the floor, Congresswoman. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by László Földi in the notary seat.]]
u2016-11-22-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Balázs Ander's comment made me think that even after the speech by the lead speaker, Rákosmente, the 17th edition of the programme, As a parliamentary representative of the district and part of District X, I must add an amendment to what he has said. I apologise to my fellow Members, because indeed, just as the second part of what Mr Ander said was not closely related to the subject, so mine - which will be linked to his - is not, but I think, here in this House, it is worth discussing and continuing this circumstance. [[12.30]] Indeed, it is very important that the airport in Ferihegy is of a quality that serves the country's travelling population and serves tourism as well, but I would like to add this to what it has said, and it is very important to reduce the noise pressure of people living in Ferihegy airport. This can be done in various ways. This is what the government is working on, and I myself ask the honourable Secretary of State to pay particular attention to reducing the noise burden, and if there are further investments and improvements in Ferihegy airport, it will always be carried out in parallel with the reduction of the noise burden on the settlements in the area. We have been talking for a very long time about a plan for a next runway and we, the crabs, the Kőbányas, are very much looking forward to this happening, because at the time of take-off and landing, the noise burden of the settlements can be reduced. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-22-44	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to State Secretary László Tasó, who wishes to respond as rapporteur to what has been said in the debate. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-22-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for the support of the factions. Obviously, there won't be any reason for us to announce the agreement. What was in the sentences attached to it, however, I would like to briefly reflect on it. First of all, regarding the fate of Malév, the fate of Malév was not in our hands. We couldn't turn the Malév's fate to the right. Of course, it was a big cut for Hungary, in our opinion, not only for those working there, but for the whole country the change we didn't want was really not wanted, except for a few people. However, I would like to defend the current conditions, which we also support, because if the Hungarian government did not support the maintenance of the current conditions, the airport in Ferihegy would not be able to help the operator... - then the quality could be reduced further. However, I must now say that Ferihegy airport serves Hungary's air traffic gate, so it works as it should. Nevertheless, it is safe to say that we naturally look forward to improvements in all areas. By the way, the operator will develop, with the support of the Hungarian government, and will be able to further develop its services with EU resources. As far as the connection in Ferihegy is concerned, as early as February this year, the Connecting Europe Facility - the abbreviation of the CEF, so we mention, by the way, the English term - is that we had already accepted this version, which the Hungarian government had chosen from many versions. We need to know that there's gonna be 29 kilometers of railway lines. We also need to know that we're going to lead the railway under the surface of the airport. So we create conditions to connect the eastern regions, including the 100 line, and create completely different conditions, allowing the traffic of the Ferihegy airport and the associated range of services to continue to grow. This is a huge commitment which the Hungarian Government has already decided in November 2014. The decisions that also require concrete action have just been taken. We're constantly negotiating with the municipalities because of the noise pressure. It wasn't six months before there was no discussion. We are looking for a solution, but because of the special situation, we have not been able to find anything that would have been suitable for all the municipalities and residents concerned. But it is certain that our Ministry, our Secretary of State, has a high priority in this regard. Let me put this in its place, too, because we know the taxi driver's problem, which my fellow Member mentioned, but on our part, the regulation makes it quite clear that the Hungarian government is in favour of tax taxis that carry out their activities in a regular way. That there will always be people who ignore this and try to do things like what we talked about, that we cannot prevent at the moment. Compared to our options, we're taking action against them. Nevertheless, it is not possible to completely eliminate such negative effects, which really shield the image that the arrivals first experience, feel on their own skin. Nevertheless, the regulation is clear: the Hungarian Government has made it clear that in all areas it supports those who do their work properly and contribute to the common burden. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Thank you again for your support. I very much hope that we will have time to take steps in the coming months or six months in relation to the issues raised that will provide a reassuring response to all the points raised. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-22-46	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the bill on the publication of the Air Transport Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt will follow. Government referral T/12917. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr.László Tasó, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2016-11-22-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Like the previous agenda, we are talking about publishing an agreement. If you will allow me, it is also important for me to read a few sentences to the minutes and, in any case, submit them to the Honourable Parliament in order for the publication to take place. As we know, the Government of Hungary - after the State of Qatar - must conclude the contract with Egypt in the same way. Egypt and I have already concluded the air transport agreement, which must be incorporated into the Hungarian legal order. The conclusion of the agreement is an EU-compliant legal basis for the operation of scheduled flights between the two countries. There are naturally air transport links between Hungary and Egypt now. Currently there are four flights between Budapest and Cairo. From the Hungarian side, Wizz Air, the airline designated on the Budapest-Hurghada route, operated for some time during the summer season, but it was suspended for safety reasons. On this route, the Egyptian airline Air Cairo currently operates one scheduled flight per week. The Agreement shall apply mutatis mutandis to the rules governing the operation of flights, to the cooperation of aviation authorities and to the coordination of measures for aviation safety. The agreement ensuring consistency with new EU law will facilitate the contribution of air transport to economic cooperation and the development of trade and cultural relations between the two countries. With all due respect, I would like to ask Members of Parliament to support the adoption and publication of the bill. Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-22-48	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, head speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-11-22-49	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The purpose of this bill is to announce an air transport agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt, with which the Fidesz Group agrees. On 1 June 2016, Dr. Miklós Seszták National Development Minister signed the agreement in the framework of Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's visit to Cairo. The submission is in line with the government's programme. In order to ensure the legal background for scheduled air services between countries, it is considered appropriate to conclude the agreement. The agreement, as in the previous agreement, includes rules on the operation of flights in air traffic between the two countries, cooperation between aviation authorities and coordination of aviation safety, including measures to ensure security of persons and property. The signed agreement will facilitate the contribution of air transport to economic cooperation between the two countries, to the development of trade and people-to-people relations. We ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill, the publication of the treaty. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-22-50	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Árpád Velez, the lead speaker of the group of the MSZP. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-22-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The purpose of the bill is to publish by law the Air Transport Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt, signed in Cairo on 1 June 2016. At the same time as the Act enters into force, the bilateral air service agreement signed by the Government of the People's Republic of Hungary and the Republic of Egypt on 20 March 1958 will expire. The Agreement was initialled by Director-General for Aviation on 18 November 2014. The establishment of the agreement can have a positive impact on the Hungarian-Egyptian relations as a whole, which can clearly have a positive impact in the economic, tourism, cultural and educational fields. Therefore, the Hungarian Socialist Party's parliamentary group supports the adoption of the proposal. Thank you for the floor. [[12.40]]
u2016-11-22-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Ander Balázs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2016-11-22-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Obviously, this proposal will also be supported by Jobbik's faction, as we are aware that the 1958 Cairo Convention is now outdated, it does not comply with modern operating conditions, nor does it comply with EU standards. Here, my fellow Members urge me to use this 15 minutes as a history teacher and the time frame that still arises for me here as an opportunity, and to describe in color, in detail, the cultural and tourist content that is raised here in relation to the Hungarian-Egyptian relationship. I promise my fellow Members that I will not use their patience so much. Yes, we could start the story from 5,000 years ago, when Ménes united Lower and Upper Egypt, but let's not turn this far. If tourism is mentioned here, then Gyüre has been following in the footsteps of my fellow Member, who here a few days ago gave a very colourful and very enjoyable lecture on Australia's flora and fauna and cultural values for us and for Egypt. A community that calls itself Hungarian, not because they are Hungarian Arabs, but because it means a tribe in the Arabic language, so they call themselves the Hungarian tribe. It is very early, by the way, and there are clear sources that this community there, in southern Egypt, at some point in the vicinity of Nubia, is called the XVIth. In fact, Turkish military was there in the century, so to speak, as slaves, and their task was to protect the Nubian blacks from the border, as subjects of the Ottoman Empire. They themselves are derived from Ibrahim el-Magyari, that is to say, Hungarian Abraham, and some estimates suggest that this Hungarianab community can count some 50-60 thousand souls in the border area of Egypt and Sudan. Orientalist István Fodor, who visited and mapped this community a few decades ago, mentioned only 10-12,000 numbers. But that they are there and there, the work of László Almásy, previously suspected and accused of Nazi friendship, can also be an example of that, since he also appeared here in South Egypt sometime in 1935 as a senior colleague of the Egyptian cartography institute, and met with members of the Hungarianab community, who also explained to him that they were not Arabs; the Hungarianab, I repeat, does not mean Hungarian Arabs. Obviously, their language and religion are no longer Hungarian and non-Christian, they have adapted or assimilated to their surroundings, but this ethnographic and historical curiosity is certainly something to be mentioned when signing such an international convention. By the way, the World Association of Hungarians contacted them at the time, and perhaps they were the first members of the delegation of Hungarians in Budapest in 1992. That is all I wanted to say, Mr Secretary of State and fellow Members. Once again, Jobbik will support this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-22-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Since the independent Members do not take part in the debate and no one has applied for a two-minute speech, I would like to ask if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to answer. [[For signal:]] Yes, Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2016-11-22-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I always enjoy listening to the outlook that my fellow Members are putting on the agenda, and frankly, that is the case. What is extremely important is that according to the Hungarian Government's intention and the Hungarian people's vision, we are trying to keep our relations close with the whole world, to help ourselves primarily, Hungarian people, and naturally any country in the world who can identify with the condition system, and naturally, the rules related to safe air transport are respected, accepted and considered to be binding. This is also a natural way of helping the country of Egypt, so that people living where they live can thrive, and that region should also try to move forward as far as possible in those crises that occur occasionally. But in every country where Hungary can help by strengthening its relations, making its trade alliances stronger, I think that we are growing, growing, and not only growing from a commercial point of view. The aim of each agreement is to make a better living in the next period, taking advantage of our opportunities. That's the whole point of our work, of course. With all due respect, I wish you all the best of luck in this, who will contribute in any way, and I am pleased that the factions unanimously support the publication of the agreement. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-11-22-56	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill to amend the laws relating to certain school cooperatives until closure. The submission submitted by Lajos Kósa, Kristóf Szatmáry, Sándor Hadházy, Fidesz MEPs, and István Hollik, KDNP representative T/12899. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Kristóf Szatmáry, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-22-57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As you know, the Parliament has repeatedly amended the rules on student work over the past few years in order to deal effectively with the problems that arise. And last time, we're hoping to put it on a new footing. It is timely and important to monitor the implementation of legislative changes, especially with the interests of students in mind. It is well known that the system of student cooperatives performs an extremely important and useful task in order to bring young people into the world of work and to be less affected by youth unemployment. We are talking about a special Hungarian model, so the European Union does not know this atypical form of employment. That is why it is important to present the bill before us, because we hope that it will be put in place and the relevant legal framework will be clarified. In this way, it can meet the interests of students and the rules of Community law as much as possible. In the time since the last amendments, we have been constantly asking for the experiences of student associations in relation to these changes. The feedback showed that the new legislation is simple and consistent, that the legislative will is clear and readable from the rules. However, many questions have been asked from many places and, in view of these, it seemed more appropriate to give concrete answers to certain questions in a legislative context. Accordingly, the main aim of our motion is to eliminate the uncertainties that have arisen during the practical application of the legislative environment. For example, there was a question of students' personal involvement in cooperatives either as an independent or as an assignment. The question is important because it depends on answering a number of important questions, excluding certain issues concerning personal income tax or even the possibility of a temporary agency, and whether the OSH legislation covers the cooperative work of students. The intention of the legislator was, of course, to create an independent legal relationship, with the same taxation and OSH guarantees as before. The issue raised by the proposal submitted is hoped to be clarified. By law adopted by the Parliament in spring, it was possible for the school cooperative and its principal together to ensure the conditions of the traineeship. By adopting the law, it was possible to resolve the opposite situation that the training place could not justify the internship because it did not qualify as an employer on this important issue. Furthermore, the cooperative could not justify it because it did not have sufficient resources to register it as a professional place of practice. However, the practical application of the new legislation raised a question as to whether it was possible to carry out the practice in a purely school-cooperative capacity or with a student employment contract only. The intention was, of course, to broaden the possibilities here too, so the proposal before us clarifies that students of the school cooperative can also complete the traineeship with a membership agreement. [[12.50]] The proposal also clarifies the rules on freedom, thus avoiding the possibility of misinterpretation of how the legal institution of freedom should be applied to a full-time student. The proposal states that the provisions of the Labour Code on regulation should apply only to those members of the school cooperatives who are not students or students. Finally, the regulation of the members of the school cooperatives will no longer be subject to the Labour Code as of 1 September of the year, but to the Law on Cooperatives, so it was necessary to bring about changes in the relevant provisions of the Law on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings. Ladies and gentlemen, The experience and feedback of the past months have all shown that the amendments that have been made over the past few years have been necessary and useful, and we hope that this is our present presentation. Perhaps the main evidence of the success of the regulation is that, according to the Commission's decision, the infringement proceedings concerning the organisation of working time of the members of the school cooperatives started in the summer of 2015, had just been closed by the European Union the other day, given that the amended Hungarian legislation appeared and was found compatible with Community law. Our aim remains to ensure that legislation can be adopted between the walls of this House in a way that creates a clear legislative environment for student work that is considered very useful. It is also important that students will surely receive their wages for the work they have done. By doing so, we can contribute to bringing young people into the world of work as successfully as possible. Dear House, The bill is indisputably for a good purpose, and that is why I call on honourable political representatives either on the pro-government side or on the opposition side to support the proposal that has been tabled. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-11-22-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Péter Cseresnyés, Secretary of State, who wishes to speak on behalf of the government. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-22-59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the aim of working in the framework of the school cooperative is to introduce young people into the world of work and to facilitate easier work. School cooperative services are a business-based solution based on the needs of the market and the self-care of young people. The work carried out within the framework of the school cooperative will introduce young people into the world of work as a complement to the education system during the student years. As a result of the government's efforts, the role of Hungarian school cooperatives is now significant, and their operation is beneficial to students. The work carried out in the school cooperative is an income supplement for students and an opportunity to gain a wide range of professional experience before completing their studies. It can now be shown that working in school cooperatives leads to lower unemployment among those engaged in this activity than the national average; a very large percentage of young people who have graduated work where they have previously worked as a member of a school cooperative, or can choose from companies where they used to work. Ladies and gentlemen, The government is constantly seeking to further develop employment in the framework of school cooperatives. This was also the purpose of recent changes in legislation concerning school cooperatives. The recent amendment to the law has changed the fragmentation of the legislation on school cooperatives and has created more room for movement in relation to the personal involvement of the member of the school cooperative. As a result of the amendment, all the main provisions relating to school cooperatives are laid down in the Cooperatives Act. The rules were added to the membership agreement on the external service between the school cooperative and the day-school student and student. This membership agreement shall be governed by the rules of the Civil Code concerning the assignment and by the provisions of the Labour Code as laid down by the Cooperative Act. Practical experience shows that further changes are needed to eliminate uncertainties and improve the flexible functioning of the school cooperative. The bill submitted contains such amendments. The amendment makes it clear that the professional practice required by the higher education institution can be carried out by a student of the school cooperative in the framework of a personal contribution to the external service and by a membership agreement. Then the amendment that the school cooperative can be a member not only of an educational institution, but also of any legal person, serves the flexibility of the regulation, increasing the possibilities for school cooperatives to operate. The aim of the bill is also to ensure that the legislation on the work of the school cooperative member provides sufficient flexibility in terms of work. According to the amendment, as has already been said, the provisions of the Labour Code on freedom should apply only to a member who has a personal involvement who is not a full-time student or student. This is because, on the one hand, full-time students and pupils work in the framework of the school cooperative, not as an employment relationship, but as an external service relationship. Another reason for the amendment is that the day-school student and student undertake work within the school cooperative only during the free time provided by the educational institution. The amendment of the law on bankruptcy and winding-up is intended to ensure consistency between legislation. The change in the rules for the employment of members of the school cooperative from 1 September 2016 is also introduced in the bankruptcy law, not in the Labour Code, but in the Cooperative Act. Ladies and gentlemen, In our view, with the adoption of the proposal submitted, the legislation on school cooperatives will become more flexible and, at the same time, more uniform, thus, the marketability of school cooperatives is expected to increase and their functioning will improve. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-11-22-60	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2016-11-22-61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, For about a year and a half, we have been dealing with the issue of school cooperatives here in Parliament on a recurring basis. On my count, this is the sixth time. For the sixth time, it is not an indication to me that the necessary legislative fitting surfaces have to be met, since changes at this frequency are naturally absent, but the story is that the proposals submitted by Fidesz-KDNP are unthinkable, they are unfounded, they indicate confusion, conflicting interests lie behind it, and it is always the current interest that makes the proposals submitted at the time stronger. It is no coincidence that Kristóf Szatmáry, Sándor Czomba, Péter Cseresnyés and others can be added to various names by submitting all these legislative amendments during the various periods. The fundamental problem is that when Kristóf Szatmáry talks about the pursuit of the interests of students, while the content of the amendment creates the opposite. It is not about keeping the interests of students in mind, but about bringing them to life. I'll give you specific examples. This bill basically changes three areas. On the one hand, it obviously concerns the law on cooperatives, bankruptcy and liquidation procedures and labour controls. [[13.00]] The issue of practical training is always a very important issue in the student's life, in the relationship between the student and the labour market. The practical training can now, in this case, be carried out by the student on the basis of an external service membership agreement, in line with the presentation of this bill. From now on, school cooperatives, i.e. if the law is adopted, may be members of the natural person and also of a legal person. It is a fundamental change that was made a good six months ago in relation to the draft law at that time, i.e. in line with the Labour Code, which shows the possibility of freedom. You know, it's a step backwards because you're eliminating acquired rights. They will put an end to the freedom that has been acquired in the past within the framework of this draft law. You don't have half a year or half a year to decide that Parliament has decided that after working within the framework of this school cooperative, if I remember correctly, a day of leave after spending 13 working days is what students deserve. Now this is zeroed down, practically making a difference, applying different treatment for the same job to students who listen during the day and students who do not listen during the day. This shows that there is confusion in your mind regarding the preparation of the law, because they did not think so six months ago, they did not do so, and now, after six months, they do the opposite. As regards remuneration, this draft law states that the minimum wage is to be reached as a consideration for carrying out the work. It's a noble objective, but it might make the author a little braver. But as far as wages are concerned, and as far as it is concerned, the fact is that instead of wages, we are not talking about wages in the coming period, we are talking about remuneration. The member of the school cooperative is therefore no longer published as an employee, but as a performer, who is not paid for work, but is paid. You know, there's different wages and different pay. The wage is coupled with labour, and the remuneration, as I said earlier, is coupled with the performance of the task. If I ask only the question of the hours of service and other factors that add to it, then again they do not give, but they are taken away from the students of the school cooperative during the day. The Fidesz-KDNP therefore pushes the students further from the Code of Work, its scope, its protection, its eligibility system, and its potential benefits. In terms of labour law protection, at least it raises questions as to whether this leads to the right direction; in fact, it serves the interests of the worker, or, where appropriate, the interests of the employer, of any owner of the school association. Individual Members' motion, as you do in the case of a school cooperative, I think, for the past year and a half without exception, this is the way it is now. Obviously, this will also save society's debate, professional discussions and the inclusion of impact assessments in Parliament's walls. If we are talking about school associations or first about employment in terms of student status, the work undertaken and carried out by students, then it is clear to all of us that this story is about, on average, about 180 to 200 thousand people on an annual basis. In the framework of the school cooperative, this is obviously slightly narrower, affecting between 130 and 150 thousand people in a given year. Obviously, the system's pulsing, it's changing. This raises an interesting question, because if we go back, we don't have to go back for a decade, but we go back 6-7 years, then young people who worked within the framework of the school cooperative were not subject to labour statistics, in Hungarian: they were not included in the employment circle. During this period, between 130 and 150 thousand people appear as an extension factor of employment, while, of course, they continued to work within this framework seven years, and then they did not. So, if nothing else, you're using these young people, these young people working in student work, in particular, as statistical subjects. This is not too fair, it is not too fair, because that is not the point of the story, but rather that all this activity facilitates the integration of young people who work in the framework of student status into the labour market during the later period, and it also helps that many people, in fact, can complement parental help from the sources created within these frameworks, in order to pay for the costs of education, because in this respect they have done some things in the past period, and not in a way that is for the benefit of students. In fact, I would like to say that everything that has been put together with the school cooperatives over the past year and a half, I can safely say that they are acting headlessly and in conflicting ways in their process, it is not in the best interests of the students, not the primary interests of the students. It's kind of a gimmick on the Ptk. and in the context of the cooperative law, how, as I said, they can push these young people away from the framework of the Labour Code and thus cause them certain disadvantages. In my view, in this respect, it is, in my view, that the use of the freedom granted six months ago is now being liquidated with this draft law. The rights acquired six months ago will be abolished. It seems like the school association is actually serving only two types of activity from your point of view today. One is, as I said, to strengthen statistics, and the other is to provide relatively inexpensive labour for certain, perhaps even buddies', business circles. But if they are school cooperatives, we cannot, of course, avoid the issue of social or employment cooperatives, because all of this is part of the system of association. A good example, unfortunately we have been chewing on for quite a long time, is how and how it can be abused, to live in an inappropriate way, not to benefit those affected, for example, through the program "The Bridge to the World of Work" where HUF 1.6 billion disappears in front of us. Or it is a good example of the activities of the Voldemort Lord's programs. I don't think these are the right roads. It is not a good way to put employees out of the framework of the Labour Code and re-employ them by the cooperative because there is a lower contribution burden in the framework of cooperative employment. This is not intended to stabilise the safety of the labour market, but rather to serve the opposite, i.e. to make workers more vulnerable. It would be worth considering this issue, Mr Secretary of State, to examine the employment in the context of the association of recent years - although I cannot talk about it now either, because it is not a wage but a remuneration and a task that is being provided - what situation has emerged in these areas. [[13.10]] And if you were to do this, and if you were to carry out the impact studies that would otherwise have to be carried out, if you were not to bring in the proposal for an amendment of the law within the framework of an individual motion, then you would naturally realize what I believe you know, that you are not creating stronger protection, not a better position, but because some people want to avoid the level of the contribution obligations, such as that which you are putting a lot of others in a vulnerable position, even the number of day-school students employed within the framework of the school association. To conclude, I would just like to mention and reiterate that the answer to the real question should actually be found. And the real question is, who benefit, directly or indirectly, from what you have done here over the past year and a half through the amendment of the draft school cooperative laws. Unfortunately, with a calm spirit, I dare say that it is not for the benefit of students, not for the benefit of students, but rather for the benefit of others. Moreover, what they are doing is ad hoc in an absolute way, always focused on satisfying a need or a wish. This cannot be an established form of thinking, an acceptable form of thinking adapted to the legislation. If they really believe that a law should be amended in this respect for school cooperatives in a way that is in the interests of students, then it should not be done six times in a year and a half and not with internal content that is contrary to that. [[István Szilárd Németh: What are you talking about?]] Once again, let Szilárd Németh understand, not take, but give. Once you decide on the possibility of entitlement to freedom, in six months' time, do not decide how and how you can take it, if possible in a shell, so that others do not notice. And not in remuneration, but in wages, give the students what gives them additional privileges. Ensure that practical training places are in place in this respect, but not in order to avoid contributions, in order to facilitate access to employment. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-11-22-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Hollik, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-22-63	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Fellow Members! As my fellow Member Kristóf Szatmáry mentioned, the Parliament has repeatedly amended the rules on student work. In all cases, these amendments were designed to address effectively the problems encountered in the functioning of the school cooperatives. At the beginning of 2016, the National Assembly put the work of the school cooperatives on a new footing, placing the regulation where it belongs, and moving it from the Labour Code to the law on cooperatives. We have made timely and important legislative changes. This has all been done with the interests of students in mind. We are basically in favour of student work, so we support the functioning of school cooperatives, because the system of student cooperatives performs an extremely important and useful task in order to introduce young people into the world of work and not to hit young people with youth unemployment. It is also worth telling you about the operation of the school associations and the student work, that it is basically a real Hungaricum. In many respects, good practices are being taken over from Western Europe, but in terms of student work, we are at the forefront, as this form of employment is not even known in most countries of Western Europe. This is a legal job opportunity, an active employment policy catalyst, improves the chance for young people to work and reduces - and this is also a very important aspect - the proportion of black work among young people. And it can also be seen, not only from the experience of the past year and a half, but from the experience of the last twenty years, that there is a great demand for this form of employment among young people. If we look at the data, they also support this, since on average 180-200 thousand students in Hungary do some occasional work every year and do this in at least 130,000 school associations. If you look at the turnover of the school cooperatives, you can see that we are talking about 17.2 billion, so we are talking about a significant amount of money, and more than 15 billion HUF of this income is generated for students. We also know from surveys that more than 60 percent of the students' salary for their work in their school cooperatives is spent directly or indirectly on expenditure related to their studies, they buy books, they finance their university-related rent, so it can also be said that this form of employment is very important for students in higher education, because they can complement their scholarship, so they can finance their university studies. Kristóf Szatmáry spoke about the concrete amendments to the proposal before us, so I would not talk about the details of it. What we can see is that the bill before us, after the rules adopted in the last six months, solves problems with the functioning of school cooperatives, and in all cases it aims at broadening the possibility of students, student work, making it more flexible and making the operation of school cooperatives clearer and more efficient. We can say that the experience of recent months and feedback also show that the changes made in recent years have been necessary and useful. We hope that our current proposals, which we are talking about, will also enrich their scope. It is certain that one of the main evidences of the success of the regulation, as mentioned by Kristóf Szatmáry, is that the European Commission recently closed the infringement procedure for the organisation of working hours of members of the school cooperatives, given that the amended Hungarian legislation was found compatible with Community law. On this basis, we believe that these changes will provide an effective, pragmatic answer to the problems that arise in everyday life, and all of this can contribute to bringing young people into the world of work as much as possible, so the Christian Democratic People's Party will support the bill before us. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-22-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Farkas, Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-22-65	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I sought with my eyes the lead speaker, Kristóf Szatmáry, to whom I would like to respond - [[István Szilárd Németh: He had to see a doctor.]] If he is not here, you can only interpret him - because he presented this bill to us in his introductory words by expressing it on the basis of the opinion of the school associations, the need for specific legislative changes was raised on their part. I think that this one sentence explains a lot, because the changes to the whole student work - let's call it - should be based not only on feedback from one party. And that's what's happening here. [[13.20]] What is happening here is that school cooperatives, as employers, as intermediaries, have different feedback to the government, and you accept it. I do not think wrong about school associations, although it has to be said that even they themselves acknowledge that there are school associations that are taking advantage of students, but it is clear, in any case, that it is irresponsible for you to hear only one of the parties on this issue. I ask you, did you ask the opinion of the students, the opinion of the young people, whether they agree with this change. Have they, for example, agreed with HÖOK, the National Conference of Students' Local Governments, which represents higher education students who are affected by this change? I would be very pleased if you would answer that, although silence is a clear answer that you have not agreed with them. I ask you if you have consulted the National Youth Council as a legitimate youth representative organisation. The silence is clear here too, and they have not been consulted. But, my dear fellow Member Hollik, it would have been enough for him to consult his own youth organisation, and the members there would have said that there are some areas of concern. I think this is a very big deficiency for you to have failed to do so, because then it would have turned out, for example, that they do not understand what has happened here in the last six months in connection with the day-school students, which suddenly made you think that they are no longer entitled to freedom. Have these students changed their obligation to higher education institutions? Or what's changed? Nothing's changed! Nothing has changed, yet six months after the introduction of this, that they too should be free, they suddenly think that this is no longer necessary. Nothing's changed. Here, or what happened was that you weren't thoughtless enough. Or it is in the interest of the school associations that these students no longer have freedom. None of them are acceptable to us. One of the aims of the bill, which you initiated six months ago, is to introduce recognition of traineeships and recognition through school cooperatives. This was initiated six months ago. We thought it was a good thing that in this way young people could complete their internships, and now they are initiating to broaden them. We're basically in agreement with that. What is our problem is that of internships, which we have called to your attention here in Parliament on several occasions. Unfortunately, these warnings have not been heard, raising awareness of the problems. There are a number of problems in relation to higher education and other traineeships, starting from the fact that employers in many cases do not apply young people to work with real professional skills, which would increase their experience, knowledge and routine, which would ultimately aim at the whole of professional practice. Unfortunately, you have not dealt with this problem from the moment you do not give young people the opportunity to, say, evaluate the place where they give internships, from the moment they encounter difficulties at all to find these employers where they can spend their practical time. We know very well that in many cases, only one signature, by filling out any certificate, will enable these young people or employers to do their internships instead of actually spending several weeks there and growing real, relevant knowledge, and what kind of problems there are. You are now broadening the possibility for young people to participate in traineeships through school cooperatives, with which, once again, there is no problem. There, young people are being led to an area where there are already many problems with traineeships, and you are ignoring these problems. We have brought this up here in Parliament for a reason that recently, for example, we have launched a campaign with Jobbik's Youth Division to put some kind of pressure on you. I would also like to draw the attention of the present member of the government and of the members of the government, even as a former leader of a youth organisation, István Hollik, to deal with the situation of traineeships, because there is indeed a serious problem. And we know very well that almost all university students are obliged to participate in this kind of professional practice, so hundreds of thousands of young people are involved in this issue. In summary, I would also like to get answers to the questions that I asked at the beginning, whether there was a discussion with the students and youth organisations, why they now suddenly consider it necessary, in six months' time, to abolish the possibility of freedom in the case of day school students. I would also like to raise questions about what you have introduced in a perfectly natural way that we are talking about legislative transfers. Indeed, it is about the transposition of legislation that was adopted earlier, but they forget to say that this was not always in the best interests of the students. In view of this, the Jobbik faction will develop its position in anticipation of their response. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-22-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Ikotity, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-22-67	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, It has barely been six months, and there is a new amendment to the regulation on school cooperatives. Of course, the proposal was presented in the form of a motion for individual representatives, by circumventing social consultation, as has been said by previous speakers. It can also be said that today, the functioning of the school cooperatives is in line with the ideas of two fidesz Members. Every time the rules are amended, Kósa and Mr Szatmary are presenters. Last time the rules changed in May, the rules of the school cooperatives were removed from the scope of the Labour Code and put under the cooperative law. MEPs have responded to concerns about the possible reduction of workers' rights in student workers by saying that there is nothing to fear, that the same rights will continue to be enjoyed by working young people, and that they will continue to have the right to inter-work breaks, rest periods and leave. In the case of freedom, the difference will be that every 13 days spent fulfilling a task, there will be one day's leave. The purpose of the bill just tabled is, according to the reasons, to eliminate the uncertainties raised in the practical application of the recently changed legislative environment for school cooperatives, which I quoted from the explanatory memorandum. For example, the rules on freedom are changing. From now on, the provisions of the Labour Code relating to freedom shall apply only to members of the school association who have a personal contribution and who are not in full-time student or student status, with the exception already mentioned. This is justified by the fact that, once again, the full-time students and students perform their duties not in the framework of an employment relationship, but in the context of an employment relationship for the provision of a specific external service, as well as the main job of the students is to perform their duties through the school association only in their free time. Of course, they also benefit from inter-work breaks and rest periods. This consideration is based on international trends. So far, the quote. It seems that Mr Kósa and Mr Szatmáry have thoroughly studied international trends over the past six months, because at the time of the May amendment of the law, even proposals were tabled that gave students active student status freedom under the Labour Code. At that time, it was claimed that the regulation of the functioning of school cooperatives instead of the Labour Code does not change the rights of student workers. Now, however, one of the most important workers' rights would be deprived of student workers: freedom. It is a frivolous argument that the school is the main job of students working alongside the university and that they work in their spare time. Freedom is a worker's right, not dependent on active or passive student status. The other argument cannot be taken seriously either, since it is said that day-school students and students fulfil their duties not in the context of employment but in the context of a relationship to provide a specific external service. This also applies to students in full-time with passive student rights, who, in turn, retain their right to freedom. According to LMP, Lajos Kósa and Kristóf Szatmáry cheated tens of thousands of student workers when they promised that legal changes would not affect their employees' rights. Now they want to deprive them of their freedom. According to the LMP, before taking any step-by-step action to deprive young workers of their rights, on the grounds that student work is not an employment relationship, school associations should be put back under the Labour Code and student work should be regulated as work. It is not necessary to reduce, but rather to strengthen, the labour rights guarantees of student employment, and to make working students safer to work. We need more and stronger guarantees, not a gradual reduction of legal protection. [[13.30]] Ladies and gentlemen, It has been said that they want to introduce young people to the world of work as soon as possible. Indeed, in Hungary, workers' rights have been thoroughly cut. We believe that it is not in this way that students should be introduced into this world to face this reality as soon as possible, but that they should be allowed to have the opportunity, to keep the guarantees so far. The May Other in the present form of Politics cannot support this amendment.
u2016-11-22-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. As independent Members do not take part in the debate, at least I do not see a candidate and Mr Vinnai Győző applied for a two-minute speech, so I give the floor. Here you go.
u2016-11-22-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I also applied as one of the authors, because in May I held a speaker's speech on the School Cooperative Act, but I would like to respond briefly to three things. One is what Nándor Gúr said about taking rights, and this amendment is ad hoc. Congressman, I would like to ask you that if you experience such a thing as taking rights that are acquired, then it is against the law, so let me know this story, tell me exactly what you mean. The other is what Gergely Farkas said about the negotiations, because the purpose of the amendment is to ensure that the interests of the students prevail, and we asked the school association, because the members work there - [[Interjection.]] One moment, I would like to finish, the members are working there - and we assume that they are asking the members how their interests are being pursued; this is not a poll, so if we are in contact with someone, this consultation will definitely be published. The third is freedom. Let me quote here - perhaps I still have time - the justification of the bill itself: for students in higher education, for college or university students, the main job of the school, can only perform or undertake the tasks through the school cooperative in their free time. Of course, they also benefit from inter-work breaks and rest periods; this consideration is based on international standards and international trends. So I would like to make this clarification. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-22-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. There will be two more minutes of speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-22-71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, Movements based on international standards, I think, were also known six months ago, or if not, then there is a very big problem. Six months ago, you made a law... [[Dr. Winner Vinnai intervenes.]] You have to push a button so you can talk, yeah... Half a year ago, a law was passed that was about whether or not a full-time student was entitled to a leave of absence after 13 working days, if I remember correctly. The right to freedom was taken away, because the draft law said that, if again my memory did not deceive me, that from 1 January 2017 the law which was adopted six months ago in this regard in Hungarian would have been passed: students who were engaged in a day-long activity, with their main task, could have taken leave from 1 January to one day after every 13 working days. This right, this opportunity, this acquired right, which was granted at the time of the adoption of their law six months ago, is now being removed and abolished, and for the same work they make the difference between day-school students and non-during-day students. Now, this is the removal of acquired rights, my honourable fellow Member, the purest form of what was made six months ago and what is now being lost in this bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-11-22-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Gergely Farkas applied for a two-minute speech, I give the floor.
u2016-11-22-73	Thank you very much. I'd just like to respond to Winner Vinnai's words to me. I think you understand, but just to be safe, I'll say this again: in our view, in this construction, which was created around the school associations, students, young people, are legally members of the school cooperatives, but the leaders of the other party, who operate, maintain, operate all of this, the school cooperatives. You are in contact with the latter, the leaders of the school associations, who have their own interests, their own well-conceived interests, which they are trying to enforce through you. There is the other party, the students, who, in this respect, are limited to express their views, their views on the fact that they are dependent on school cooperatives, or to say that they are in a vulnerable relationship, if they do not agree with something, they may not dare to tell the leaders of the school cooperatives, as they may later be disadvantaged: they will not be communicated to different employers and will receive different deductions. This may be a vision, a fiction on our part, but it has the theoretical potential, and it's probably in the minds of the young. That is why we would still consider it very important to consult with those organisations, because it is really not possible to speak to students one at a time, to ask for their opinion, but there are organisations through which students' interests could be represented, these interests, opinions would be heard, and this might affect the final version of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-22-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As no one has applied for a further two-minute speech, we will now continue with the speeches in the normal time frame. I give the floor to Mrs Anita Heringes, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2016-11-22-75	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Dear tableds, We can also hear and read in the explanatory statement that the school is the main place of employment for these students, only, honourable Members, this sentence is one of the greatest hypocrisy of this government in all respects. After all, these are the students who work to pay their rent, their BKV lease, their local transport pass so that they can travel home to their parents. [[Németh Szilárd István: That's right, very right!]] so that they can buy food for themselves, so that they can live. I believe that my fellow Member, Szilárd Németh, is upset, because he is typically one of those Members who, by reading the justification of the bill, are so deeply rooted that it cannot be blown out of there. [[Dr. Winner Vinnai intervenes. István Szilárd Németh: The sympathy is mutual.]] The biggest problem is that in this explanatory statement, honourable Members, we can read through the fact that we are seeing magic again with words, because students have been removed from the labour code. This was a great achievement of Parliament, in which everyone agreed that students should be under the Labour Code on student work, with all the rights and guarantees that any employee should have. I understand that you have now played very well the infringement procedure against Hungary in relation to freedom, only, my fellow Members, the students would be the most important, and not the student associations that are lobbying for you, but the student is the most important on this issue, we should defend his rights. And I understand that it is magic in the words that you say that freedom has not been taken from these students at the moment, from these day school students, but, gentlemen, it is that this acquired right, which you said six months ago, that there is nothing more important for students to receive freedom, would have been due to them from January 1st. So, of course, if you look at it this way, it would have been possible for them only from 1 January, because in the previous amendment you gave them this opportunity, which, of course, was a long time ago, until they were subject to the Labour Code, only after they were removed, so we had to create a new rule for them, so, of course, if we look at them, we understand that this can be explained by not taking anything, because the rule has not yet entered into force. [[13.40]] Dear Employee Partners! Because that's what we really are when we think deeply about ourselves. What we should be seeing is that the students we are talking about here are one of the most vulnerable in the labour market, because those students who are learning into the world of work should be the best learners of what it is like to work under the Labour Code, what it is like to sign a contract, what its points are, what rights and guarantees they deserve. But by removing them from the law, these students can't learn that. And really, most of them work so that they can live next to the school so that they can go to college and pay for their daily livelihoods, because unfortunately their parents can't support these students that much, so they have to find their own way to stand up for themselves as little adults in this big world. And it's really magic with words, because from now on, they're not employees, they're going to be personally involved in a school cooperative. From now on, it's exactly like when the pension was taken away, and there's a stipend. This is exactly the same case, magic with words, honourable Members, those who are affected will suffer. We calculated that from January around the same time, that would have meant 5,000 forints for students. From now on, they'll have 5,000 forints less. So, ladies and gentlemen, I think that you should not sit down with certain school associations who are lobbying you; not always, Kristóf Szatmáry and Lajos Kósa should submit these proposals, but perhaps the government should not, because we would not have to amend this law six times, because then we would have impact studies, the profession could give its opinion, students could give their opinion and listen to all the school associations, but you are avoiding this form, because you are only willing to listen to certain school associations, for which we would like to amend this area for the sixth time. Ladies and gentlemen, This can't go on. Let's start with a clean slate. Let's get this sorted out, put the students back under the labor code. You have also agreed on this for quite a long time, since the previous parliaments have decided that this should be the case. I don't know what kind of lobbying force it is that can move you to the area where guarantees and rights are taken away from the youngest. Please, fellow Members, withdraw this law because I think that it is not possible to support it in a good spirit a month before Christmas. This can't be a Christmas present for students. Thank you.
u2016-11-22-76	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr.
u2016-11-22-77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. But as my fellow Member said, it is not possible to adopt such a bill not before Christmas, not one month after Christmas; it is not possible to adopt a bill at all that is against the interests of a student engaged in student's work. Mr State Secretary, with all due respect, I would like to ask you not to hold a summary as you do at the end, but to raise questions here, from several directions on the opposition side, to answer them. Why are they leading out of Mt. from the point of view of why Ptk is pushing. To the co-operative law, to the students? Why am I talking about freedom from 1 January? It would have been based on your earlier decision six months ago for the student in the day as well as for the non-living student. Why aren't they doing it for their own good? Why are they bringing to life a situation in which they suffer a disadvantage of approximately HUF 5,000 in addition to their work activity? And why do they allow an activity to take place in the country in an increasingly extensive form that does not strengthen the position of the worker in the labour market, but rather weakens it, within the framework of the reduction of contributions or other types of re-employment to avoid payment? I am not going to ask you any more questions, because I think that Mr. Secretary of State is enough to answer on the way, and then you can also say what he thinks in his summary. But with all due respect, I'm gonna ask you to answer it now, so you can argue about it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-11-22-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Since no one has applied for another two-minute speech, I wonder if anyone else would like to speak. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. Dear Parliament, I would like to announce that Victor Vinnai has joined the authors. I ask who, on the part of the authors, would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the bill amending certain laws relating to the transfer of vocational training and adult training authorities will follow up until closure. Presentation by Zoltán Bóna, Mónika Dunai, Fidesz, and Rózsa Hoffmann, Péter Harrach and László Földi, KDNP, representatives T/12919. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Congressman László Földi, the author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. [[In the notary seat István Ikotity will be replaced by Nándor Gúr.]]
u2016-11-22-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Parliament's debate on the amendment of certain laws relating to the transfer of vocational training and adult training authorities may be an excellent opportunity to lay down some basic principles on our relationship to work. Reason can only be given to intelligent work, an occupation that fits with the desires, abilities and opportunities of its ender, which enjoys the intellectual and material appreciation of society and the employer, and not least, which provides a predictable livelihood for humans, because it is also in line with the expectations of the market. Second of all, if there's work, there's everything. The pay for the work is not only wages, but also, in optional cases, the maintenance, the self-confidence with which the working person can become an example for his children. We all know that the first step of slipping off a family or a social group is that children never see their parents go to work because they live on welfare - the result of others' work. It is based on our third foundation, the organising order of the Fidesz-KDNP government's labour market policy, which says: work instead of aid. In 2010, we broke up with the irresponsible policy of socialist governments, which kept people on a leash with aid. Our goal is full employment, simply because a fair and responsible government can have no other purpose, but it serves the survival, prosperity and competitiveness of the individual, family and nation. We have results in this area. They can be argued over, but they are nothing but an empty political rumor. In fact, employment growth has been the most dynamic in Hungary in the last five years. It is a fact that most people have worked in Hungary since the change of regime. In fact, the number of people employed increased by 680,000 compared to 2010. The government intends to increase employment to 75% by 2020. Therefore, we have reason to be perceptive, but not to be content and, above all, to be presumptuous. It is crucial, for example, to reduce labour shortages. Our important task is to transform vocational training. We also have a clear goal in this area: we need to give young people a profession that can move quickly and pay them so much wages that they can build their future. There is a long way to go to this goal, and one of the steps in this path is to amend certain laws relating to the transfer of vocational training and adult training authorities, which we have here. In the context of the establishment of a simpler structure and more economical functioning of the public administration system, 1312/2016 on measures for the review of central offices and ministerial background institutions in the form of budgetary bodies. In accordance with the Government's decision, the reform of the central administrative organisation is under way, in which more than 40 central offices and budgetary bodies will be terminated between 1 September 2016 and 1 November 2017. [[13.50]] A key element of the transformation is that from the central offices the official tasks should be transferred to the metropolitan and county government offices, so that the tasks are carried out closer to the citizens and businesses concerned. The amendment is not essentially linked to the close professional part of vocational training; two important changes are made. One is that the VET agreement is drawn up from the system. To date, this has been one of the conditions for vocational training in non-State institutions, and from now on it will only have to comply with the conditions for continuing vocational training. The State will thus simplify the conditionality and make it easier to monitor non-State-reserved trainers, as the activity related to the document is decreasing. Another important change is that the National Vocational Training and Adult Education Office is placed under a number of authorities, in particular those responsible for vocational training, which are designated by the Government. More important: complex professional examination tasks, management of records, official tasks. The procedure for establishing the framework numbers proposed by the county development and training committees, which will later appear in the professional structure decision, changes in a small part by giving a role to the authority performing the vocational training task. The amendments can be incorporated into the implementation of the government's plans to reduce the tasks of the background institutions, thus giving government agencies a greater role in the system of vocational training and, in particular, in adult education. Hopefully, in recent years, efforts to clean up the adult learning market are not being spanked, but are getting more ammunition. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The government of Fidesz-KDNP and the majority of Parliament have given people jobs and, moreover, has put the economy on its feet, the state of which is now valued by international credit rating agencies that are not very bona fide to us, so now there is more money for the minimum wage and guaranteed wages. The next step is to make this development sustainable, thus improving the quality of life of individuals, families and the competitiveness of the economy as a whole. Vocational training is an important tool for this work, where we have launched a wide-ranging consultation of the players in the competitive sector, the primary labour market. We all know what kind of vocational training is needed: something that gives young people up-to-date knowledge, something that they can get a job and a job at the end of. With all due respect, my fellow Members, let us discuss this draft law and perhaps support the adoption of the draft law with their proposals and amendments. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-22-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Péter Cseresnyés, Secretary of State, who wishes to speak on behalf of the government. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-22-81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Péter Harrach and his fellow Members have submitted this bill to this House, in which they are initiating amendments to certain laws relating to the transfer of certain professional and adult training tasks; according to the government's relevant decision, they would be transferred to the designated Pest County Government Office. The aim of the proposal is to establish a uniform procedure in the system of vocational and adult education through the system of government agencies in the field of public authority tasks that concern citizens at national level, since, if the bill is adopted, customers will not have to go to a central office, but to the Government Office of Pest County. The basic logic of the proposal is eligible, but it would be necessary to introduce some amendments in line with the policy principles in the draft in order to ensure that the already developed professional structure remains coherent and coherent. The proposal would be fully eligible if it were to fit into the system that government agencies have already set up in the organisation of graduation exams and work to the satisfaction of everyone: the higher level of graduation exams are organised by government offices per county and the presidents of the graduation exam are appointed. The examination system, similar to the system of graduation examinations organised by the Education Office, would be managed by a central office, in this case the National Vocational Training and Adult Education Office. It is also an important task for the government office to have a system of authorisation and control of adult education transferred to the government office by means of a previous bill. This is linked to the part of the bill that, as of 1 January, not the National Vocational Training and Adult Education Office, but the Pest County Government Office will oversee the adult education information system, thereby completing the competence of the Pest County Government Office in the adult education system. The county development and training committees perform an important task in the field of vocational training. These five-to-five-member bodies - members of the labour experts of government agencies, members of employees and employers, representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Chamber of Agriculture - propose that the annual government decree, which sets out the sectors of maintenance of professions and vocational training sectors that can be trained in state-supported form, which should include priorities and preferences per county, which gaps should be identified in order to meet the needs of the labour market, or from the other side, students in vocational training should be able to obtain public support in which they will be guaranteed access to employment. The bill would transfer the collection and coordination of this proposal per county to the Pest County Government Office. However, it is necessary to note that, following the professional preparation of the National Vocational Training and Adult Education Office, the Minister for Vocational Training and Adult Education proposes to the Government the content of the professional structure decision. At the same time, it is important to note that it is necessary to add amendments to the original bill in order to fully implement the uniform procedure set out in the objective. The portfolio will be able to establish its final position on the bill if, after the consultations, the intention to amend as set out above is submitted by the author by the final vote. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-11-22-82	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group.
u2016-11-22-83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. What was clear about the previous draft law was that an individual motion of representatives, especially if not all internal negotiations, reflected what kind of hiatus. The Secretary of State himself has touched on the fact that there is still a great deal to be put together here in order for this bill to come to fruition. The problem with these individual MEPs is that, obviously, in such matters, especially, particularly matters of major importance, vocational training, adult education, many other matters, discussions, social consultations, social debates, impact assessments, I do not want to repeat the lesson, it does not really lead in the right direction. This is what I can say about the bill itself and in line with what László Földi presented. [[14.00]] There is a consensus between us that if there is work, we can say, yes, that there is almost everything. Of course, it doesn't matter if the health is there for him, but when there's work, there's almost everything. I do not dispute this claim. This was the focus of the Hungarian Socialist Party's efforts, and this will be the case in the future. László Földi's other sentence, in line with this, sounded like a job instead of a help. Look, my fellow Member, what is not good is neither work nor aid if you do not provide any kind of care. I would like to remind you that you mentioned that since 2010, there have been 680,000 jobs, so much more registered workers. I want you to see a clear and clear picture, even so that you don't repeat such nonsense like a parrot commando. Because the fact is, obviously, that in Hungary, unlike and contrary to your promises, you do not work in the economy, on the surface producing tax forints, one million more people, but not 680,000. It'd be nice to have 200,000 more work, but no. Because the situation is as follows: the statistics reflect it as if there were more employees. [[Németh Szilárd István: But he doesn't work, ah, less!]] More, outside the border, abroad. My fellow Member, Szilárd Németh, start digging around a little bit. [[Németh Szilárd István: Less, of course!]] And then you'll be smarter in that regard! [[György Balla: You haven't done much research in your life!]] The story is simply that in the last six years, 600 thousand... [[György Balla: By tomorrow it will be 700,000!]] 600 thousand Hungarian workers have left this country. [[Tibor Bana: I'm afraid so!]] Due to this 600 thousand employees... [[György Balla: It's quite simply a lie!]] Relax, patience, debate, a lot of things can help us get to the common platform, but this, my fellow Member, is not! So, 600,000 people forced out of this country simply because they couldn't find a minimum living at home in your time of government. [[György Balla: In yours, of course, he knew!]] Of these 600 thousand people, ask the experts of the KSH, in this period about 140,000 people are registered as employees in Hungary. It's simply because you've been doing work outside the border for less than a year, and these people are registered here, taking into account the home KSH regulatory system, based on ILO and other procedural methods, as if they were working at home, within the border, but they're not working at home, but outside the border. Like I said, it's because they didn't find the basis for their livelihood at home. I don't want to describe the increase in public employment. You know, learn to draw stories with title-spoken trainings, where they humiliated him. [[Németh Szilárd István: Maybe you should go too!]] where people were humiliated, the multitude of people. These people, who are being kicked out of the public sector, then want to get them to do the same job by re-employment within the framework of community service, give these people hunger. Do you know how much, my fellow Member, is my colleague, Szilárd Németh? Do you know how much? In 2010, these people received 60 200 forints, and now 52,000 forints. The difference is that now people who work in public works receive a one-third less money. [[Gábor Bányai: Which agenda is this?]] , while in 2010 they received HUF 60 200. Well, they're about 150 to 200 thousand more current than they were in 2010. Once again, the statistics are shaped and shaped. They also obviously know that many of the people who left this country, hundreds of thousands of people, in the former labour statistics, were involved in unemployment care systems and forced to leave the country brought about the fact that, in practice, unemployment statistics had become somewhat better. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] I do not want to go into too much detail, but the topic on the previous item on the agenda was student employment, where between 140 and 150 thousand people will be employed. They are also included in this statistics, my fellow Member, László Földi, which you mentioned as employed there, when these people were not involved seven years ago, although they were practically doing their work within the same framework of student employment. If only these three surfaces, public employment, student employment, the number of people working abroad, who are counted into the statistics in Hungary, are added together, then the number of these people will exceed half a million, and then we can start talking about whether there are more people working in Hungary in the economy at all than six years ago. You know, a million new jobs in the economy, not the numbers in the ether. Maybe that's just the way it is for this story. We agree that the reduction of labour shortages, because it has clearly developed in certain parts of the country, is necessary. Obviously, the need for this reduction can be zeroed or reduced if changes in vocational and adult education are made. But I would like to immediately point out that it is the seventh year of government, and it seems to me that during their seventh year of governance they have not been able to fulfil this task, even though in the system of vocational training, tangible changes could have been made within 3-4 years. No, you couldn't do that. Instead, the institutional system of vocational training has been disrupted. If you have already mentioned what my fellow Member László Földi mentioned about the increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, I must say that this part of what happened today in the context of the wage agreements, I think it is okay. Just, you know what's not right? The six years before that. It is not right that the wages of people with minimum wage, the purchasing power value of what they received, were less than in 2010 for five years after 2010. It's not okay that these people have been stolen for about five years. It is not okay to increase the contribution burden more than double for the minimum wage during this period. Overall, the employer and the employee paid HUF 32 000 in 2010 and HUF 69 thousand in 2016 in a given month, in line with the employment of a minimum wage person. Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés, you need to take out the computer, the calculator, maybe you don't need a computer, you need enough calculators, you need to multiply the additions, and then it will come out to you that instead of a charge of HUF 32,000, employers paid HUF 69 thousand for a month's minimum wage. [[Péter Cseresnyés: The minimum wage has increased to 60,000, of course the contribution is higher!]] This money, if you hadn't collected it, wouldn't have been an extra burden on the employers, so that you could skin more off your employee, and if you could have put this money into circulation for the wages of employers, then today we'd be in the hands of the minimum wage of living per person. I say that it is okay that today's wage agreements have brought the result that, for five years alone, they have not gone in this direction, but have given people less worth of money, they have been quasi-stealed, because, in addition to their work, they have been able to make no more, but less, money for the same job in time. And the employers were crippled, too. After all the introductions, because László Földi touched on these questions in his speech, I would also like to say three or four thoughts about the draft law in particular. Nothing else is reflected in this draft law but that it is centralized, it seems as though it is intended to be permanently centralized, obviously in relation to the relocation to government offices. [[14.10]] By installing previous adult training tasks at government offices, the National Training Register will now be arranged, from the appointment of the presidents of the professional exams, through or through the central examination organisation, to install the tasks of competence of the National Vocational Training and Adult Education Office to the Government Office. So this is nothing more than a rock-hard centralization. With this bill, the institution of the Vocational Training Agreement will also cease. This was a kind of cooperation agreement between the state and vocational schools, non-state institutions. This was the condition, you know, Mr Secretary of State, for these training bodies to be eligible for a budget contribution from the basic part of the National Employment Fund for vocational training. This VET agreement will be terminated with this draft law. The government, through the draft law, or through regulations to the counties or the capital, shall fix the definition of professional qualifications and the sectoral circles in vocational secondary schools for which the maintenance staff of vocational secondary schools are either receiving or not receiving grants, budgetary contributions, and shall determine in practice which vocational schools maintainers may receive unlimited support for their schooling. [[István Szávay takes over his notary seat.]] It is, once again, a permanent centralization, which is not certain that it is good at vocational training and adult education, because its flexibility is being lost. Otherwise, the process that was started in 2010 will continue. In other words, they dumben vocational training and increase the chances of further education for those students. who acquire knowledge through the institutional system of vocational education and training, and who also hit private schools and many others. All this behaviour is considered to be alien to the market economy, unable to respond quickly and to take rapid action. Therefore, there is nothing to talk about but the fact that a rough centralisation is being carried out, and they do so without talking to sectoral trade unions. I would like to know what type of consultation, let's say, with the pedagogical union or with the Democratic Trade Union of Teachers, was conducted by the authors prior to the submission of the draft law. I don't think I'd be too disappointed if there was an end to any of this. Well, so much for this presentation. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[Anita Herring claps.]]
u2016-11-22-84	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Tamás Pintér, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-11-22-85	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, According to part of the bill before us, different responsibilities and different competences will be transferred to the designated government offices, which are currently under the responsibility of the National Vocational Training and Adult Education Office, the NRA. In principle, the aim of this amendment would be to strengthen efficiency and improve quality, but we know that this was also the aim of the NRA, from which they take over these tasks, and this office was not worth the two years. We therefore have doubts as to how this otherwise overloaded, water-headed government office will carry out, for example, the examination. This may be justified by time, but given the background of this amendment, i.e. the 2016 CIV. They have taken action to amend the law, and we already think that real solutions should be taken if they are already burdening the system that is already functioning poorly with another level. The transfer aims to achieve a uniform functioning and supervision of the entire adult education system within the framework of an institution, which would ensure and accelerate the effectiveness, strengthening of adult education and the quality of professional examinations. However, it should be said that there is a huge gap between professional and exam requirements and the skills that companies expect from skilled workers. Because there are pink dreams that create expectations for schools that show the trend that must be stopped, that is that 60-70 percent of students are functionally illiterate, that is, the written text cannot or can only be interpreted with great difficulty, and that the proportion of those who cannot master a fraction of the requirements is above 90 percent, but until then 90 percent of the students successfully pass the test in writing. We need to think about this, but let us turn to one of the most important parts of this bill, namely the proposals for amendments to the county development and training committees, which, as can be seen, have been designed to define the county directions and proportions of vocational training, and whose decisions have so far been practically legislative. In their view, the VET proposal of these county development and training committees, i.e. mfkb, will be prepared by the VET authority by requesting the opinion of the public VET and adult training body to take government decisions. So they want the committee's proposal to be prepared by the government after the opinion of the NGO. The task of preparation will therefore be the responsibility of the Government Office from now on, but the National Vocational Training and Development Office would have the power to comment. However, the transformation of the system of vocational training, its consequences and its effects are again not mentioned in this case; they are only burdening the system, which, in my opinion, is already very poorly functioning. Despite the operation of mfkbs, it remains a problem that students are not learning the professions that the labour market wants. Therefore, in some areas there has been a shortage of professions, while other professions have over-training and graduates cannot be absorbed by the labour market. It can therefore be said that the system you continue to operate will be called into question, which will determine the directions and ratios. The professions were divided into highly supported and non-supported groups, which, in my opinion, was perhaps the worst possible solution even at the time of its introduction. The question has to be asked: they believe that they want to meet the interests and needs of employers, i.e. typically medium-sized and large companies, or rather those who are further educated. Because in many cases these two needs are very far from each other, and there is a noticeable tendency that the needs of the two actors will be further apart in the future. Students think in perspectives and perspectives. The most important aspect, however, is that in the long-term, 10-15 years from now, what they can expect, what income they can earn, whether the profession will be sought, whether the possession of the profession will be able to provide them with an adequate standard of living in the long term or for their family members. The system also does not work because, on the one hand, people do not think that they will be looking for it in the long run, on the other hand, that the income and bright careers available to the profession they are looking for are not justified by the people's everyday experience. Typically sought-after profession, for example, is the metal chipper. Employers promise high incomes, easy work, clean jobs, but everyday experience is quite different: minimum wage, ten hours of hard and dirty work a day. [[14.20]] Thirdly, it is also possible to say that multinationals react immediately and first to the first small wave of ever increasing profits by dismissal of skilled workers. In the system that you operate, you have given priority to certain professions because, according to your surveys, there is a shortage of them in the labour market. If we are to be a little more specific, there are not as many employees as companies would expect in job advertisements for companies looking for employment. Is it possible to conclude from this that there is little or going on from the skilled workers sought, whether it is possible to conclude that few of the skilled workers sought are trained in vocational training in the region? Companies and their needs, which have been formulated through the Chamber to the Committee, which are taken into account with great emphasis in their absence, but the needs of the Chambers have a decisive impact on the needs of large companies, since due to non-binding membership, the majority of small entrepreneurs, but especially individual entrepreneurs, are not members of the Chambers, while almost all of them are chamber members. Therefore, it is also a problem because there are areas, such as hairdressers and electricians, for which market participants are almost exclusively self-employed or micro- and small enterprises. In addition, advocacy organisations such as Iposz or Kisosz, whose membership is composed exclusively of self-employed workers, unfortunately, cannot enforce their professional needs with sufficient force. The problem is that the circle often doesn't recognize the urgency of the supply of professionals, and more importantly, they may be interested in making the shortage of professionals as much as possible in the market, as this will result in artificially high demand and thus high income. The interest of the large business community is quite the opposite, as they are interested in increasing the supply of professionals, because in this case they will have a great opportunity to draw and keep wages low. Of course, in large companies, professional labour wages are still low enough to be unattractive to anyone. So there would be no problem with the system you have submitted if it could accurately assess the future labour market situation, but let alone the future, unfortunately, we cannot get to know the current one precisely because some sectors of the economy are changing so quickly that what was considered a shortage profession a few years ago is sometimes considered to be a dying profession in a year or two. With this amendment, we are still not building a dynamic system, but we are slowing down by intervening government offices. The school can only teach a profession, to be more precise: it would only be able to if the requirements were in line with the mental capacity of the students. But it's certainly not suitable for one of them. Convince young people of the benefits and beauty of a career at a multinational company. Only large companies could and should be able to do so, because the school is a player in the labour market, not in the training market. In the future, mfkkbs, together with government agencies, will analyse labour market players to formulate their expectations for trainers without taking into account the specificities of the training market. In other words, when the rates and orientations of future vocational training are determined, they cling to past information from the labour market and do not collect any information about the needs of the participants in the training market. Thus, a large part of the decisions will be missed because of the lack of adequate information, and in many cases we will probably not know or even know that this situation exists, i.e. decisions are taken in the absence of information. To sum up, therefore, there is currently no information channel that conveys the needs or interests of the area to the mfkkbs, which essentially covers the individual business community. Thus, the committees do not see this area, they cannot take into account the interests of their decisions, but today in Hungary, unlike the labour markets of the more developed countries of the EU, there are more than one million individual and micro and small businesses. Therefore, it is a mistake to operate and continue a foreign vocational education and training system in Hungary, which does not resemble the structure of the labour market economies of countries at all. It can be said that in the structure, governments, through the VET system, are, in essence, only financing the ability of multinational corporations to make profits again. Obviously, I'm a little off topic, but if you think it's important, you should answer these problems, because there are clear and logical proposals for the road out of the dead end, namely the development of education, the attractiveness of skills in the field of shortages, the setting up of career models and the introduction of decent wages. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-11-22-86	Thank you very much, Congressman Pintér. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai.
u2016-11-22-87	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It is especially good that tomorrow we will have a debate day on employment and employment expansion in the Parliament's walls. I highly recommend to my fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, that if he comes to that debate tomorrow, he should prepare a little better, because today's knowledge in this area needs a little improvement. If you are not prepared a little better from numbers and trends, I suggest that you pay close attention and take notes, since there will be a further training or you could say that you can deepen your knowledge within the framework of vocational training. Because you, my honourable fellow Member, have said things about Hungarian vocational training, employment, the numbers of the HCSO that are quite simply far from true. I think that it is not possible to argue with the figures that the HCSO has published this year, for example, in the third quarter of 2016, so it is not air-borne. According to this, the number of employees has increased to 4 million and 391 thousand. You can read this not from us, not from the governing parties, but from KSH data and his assessment. The number of unemployed fell to 226 thousand. We didn't make that up, but it's in the records of the KSH. And indeed, the number that László Földi mentioned in the speech of my fellow Member, the employment of 681 thousand people was not out of the air. This employment of 681 thousand is also a number based on real surveys and statements. Nor is it right for my colleague Nándor Gúr that the majority of this would be among foreign workers, as we can also see such a breakdown, that most of it, 460 thousand people, meant an increase in employment in the domestic competition sector. So most of it means domestic job expansion and employment. Dear fellow Member, What you've told me about the vocational training system, it's worth remembering. You have followed these years, decades, and you know very well that in the '90s and then in the 2000s, vocational training was or has remained in a direction that did not provide our young people with competitive knowledge. You didn't feel like it, your strength, or you simply didn't see the need to change this system. We did this. Now I think that, in the context of this transformation, we will be able to give young people such competitive knowledge both in vocational training in secondary school and in the continuation of dual training in higher education, with which they can hold their place in Hungary, but their knowledge can be world-class. That's our goal. I hope that we share this goal, even if you do not admit it in the benches of the MSZP, but I hope that you are secretly rooting for us to achieve this goal. He also mentioned the minimum wage. If you look at it, in the eight years before 2010, the net minimum wage rose by just one percent during socialist-free democratic governance. We have modified this so that every year since then the minimum wage has been constantly rising. [[14.30]] Let us add that inflation has also been mentioned, there has been little inflation in Hungary for years, so we are consciously trying to keep real wages to the level and even increase it. What you have probably read today, which our Minister for Economic Affairs has already communicated today, we will be facing very favourable wage increases, minimum wage increases in the coming years, and we will be able to reduce the burden significantly not only in the public sector but also in the entrepreneurial sector, and encourage workers' wages to be much higher. This turn of events has therefore been carried out by civil governance to transform vocational training to meet modern age and modern challenges. I think it's natural to need fine-tuning when a system is being modified. This proposal is also a way to find a solution to how to operate more effectively. We can have a debate at all, if there is no debate between the benches of Fidesz-KDNP, then you say that, of course, someone here will tell us what to vote on, what to say. Well, my fellow Member, you can see that there are thinking people in our benches, and everyone is looking for a better solution, and then the debate is intended to end up with a solution that will serve the cause, not the prestige of individual Members, not the prestige of the opposition, not the prestige of the ruling parties, but the cause. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-22-88	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. Since we have reached the end of the speaker's speeches, I will give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr in two minutes.
u2016-11-22-89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, my fellow Member, I would like to suggest that you see not only numbers but also underlying content. You know, thinking begins when we look not only at the numbers, but also at the underlying content, and let's say that we don't immediately believe the words of Secretary Peter Cseresnyés, but also control what it is made of and how it is assembled. I suggest that you and your fellow Members do so by tomorrow. You have some time, and then we'll be able to talk some sense into you. The other part of what I have to say is that I should stop explaining this - the other part of what I have to say, Mr. Secretary, if you have already turned here, I would like to refer it to you - and that is another question, but you will never answer any questions. [[Defiance from the Fidesz ranks.]] Therefore, its condition can be considered almost redundant. [[Rumor and intervention from the ranks of Fidesz: What is the question?]] Look, you have to answer very simply: why is the transformation of the vocational training system, the reorganization of the processes to government offices necessary? Technically, when, where, what, what will they decide, how much, in what number of frames, or why are the government agencies responsible for this? Are they the ones who, say, predict the way the economy works for five years? The Chamber of Commerce and Industry may have more knowledge about this issue, but, to my knowledge, they cannot predict the development of processes that will take place in five years. In order to make rapid progress towards the necessary needs and to move quickly forward, this cannot be achieved by transferring tasks and competences between the ties of a bureaucratic organisation. Well, I asked you a few questions, and I ask you to answer them. I'm telling you right now, he's probably not gonna answer, and in his summary, I don't want to hear it anymore. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-11-22-90	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. I'll ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I'll ask you if you want to live with the national law. [[There's no candidate.]] They don't want me. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Now, Honourable Parliament, the general debate on the bill on the amendment of certain energy laws for price regulation will follow until closure. Presentation by representatives of István Németh Szilárd and Dénes Galambos Fideszes T/12923. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr István Németh Szilárd, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-11-22-91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The bill before us has a double purpose. One is that we are able to preserve the household money saved by the reduction of the rent over the last three years and the benefits of the reduction of the rent itself. The other aim is to implement future regulatory reduction procedures. It is no secret to anyone that we originally set ourselves the goal of having the amount of over HUF 1000 billion that the energy suppliers of the socialists gave away from the country into the hands of foreigners - this is only the money we know about, we see a lot of other money, but we know for sure that it was HUF 1065 billion - we give this back to the Hungarian population in some way. By the end of this year, the total amount of money saved as a result of all nine areas will reach almost a thousand billion forints, so we are on the right track. This week, the Minister for Economic Affairs also announced that the government would continue its efforts to reduce the costs; on the one hand, further price reductions in residential areas and, on the other hand, in the market area, the government is looking at the possibility of making domestic businesses access to energy cheaper. This bill now concerns two areas, and this is no longer unprecedented, because when we first decided to reduce the rent from 1 January 2013 and we wanted to implement it, beyond the brutal resistance that the people of Brussels who had been delegated to this Parliament and Brussels itself have done to combat the reduction of the rent, the Hungarian service providers have basically decided not to implement it, there was a greater or lesser resistance. The less resistance is that those account making equipment and people cannot be transformed, so to speak, to reduce the prices of natural gas, district heating and electricity by 10 percent. Obviously, they could be adjusted to do so several times when they were raised. We remember that 15 times between 2002 and 2010 were given the opportunity from the Hungarian energy office at the time. Well, that was the minor resistance. But there was a greater resistance, and the fact that they ran to the Hungarian court and challenged the whole price reduction determined by the energy office, because a decision was taken by the then president, and the Hungarian court voted against the Hungarian people as usual in Hungary. It was then that we had to protect the reduction of the rent here in Parliament and, obviously, among the people. Here in Parliament, we decided in spring 2013 that the President of the Hungarian Energy and Public Works Regulatory Office should be strengthened and delegated with the right of regulation, and since the regulation cannot be challenged in an administrative court, only in the Constitutional Court, this form seemed to be very good. We would also like to use this form to give the President the right to establish a regulation as of 1 January 2017 in respect of system usage, connection fees and other service charges. [[14.40]] This is the instrument of this law, and in order to make the reduction of the costs sustainable and continue. I therefore call on my fellow Members to support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-22-92	Thank you, Congressman. I'll ask if you wish to speak on behalf of the government. [[Dr. András Aradski: Yes.]] You have the floor, Secretary of State, András Aradszki.
u2016-11-22-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, the final aim of the submitted bill is to maintain the value of the reduction of the costs and to maintain the situation that today the average prices of electricity are the fifth lowest in Europe and in euro, while the average price of natural gas is the second lowest in Hungary. This has been achieved by means that the Member has said, and we have exceeded the time when in Hungary more has been paid for electricity and gas, such as in the Netherlands, Britain, the Czech Republic or France. I believe that this result is very important and that the bill tabled is intended to continue this. Of course, this service is, in the first place, a good way of continuing to reduce the costs, if this is the case and is possible, but it also serves predictability, price stability and social security. These aspects should not be ignored. In any case, negotiations with the European Union will continue in order to achieve the reduction of the costs and to maintain its results, and discussions with the European Commission will continue. We will make sure that the objectives set by the Member and the results achieved by previous parliamentary decisions are sustainable. It is this bill that serves predictability, and we can therefore support it from the government, propose to discuss it and adopt it at a later stage. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-22-94	Thank you, Secretary of State Aradski. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Gábor Bányai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. [[In the notary seat László Földi is replaced by Attila Gelencsér.]]
u2016-11-22-95	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We are now taking part in a parliamentary debate on a very important issue for all Hungarian households, to be more precise. To make T/12923. We need to fully understand the need for a legislative amendment to certain energy laws for price regulation purposes, it is essential to look back a little in time, to keep a short time travel and to relive the development of domestic energy prices and household overhead costs. In 2002, when, after the first Orbán government, the socialists took over the country's leadership, let us remember that there would be no gas price increase with their campaign text, energy prices kept low during the period of civil government began to rise explosively. The socialist-free democrat governments first started by Péter Medgyessy, then Ferenc Gyurcsány, and finally, under the direction of Gordon Bajnai, they started to pull as much skin off Hungarian families and households as possible, collaborating with large international energy companies. It was enough for these multinationals to walk into the energy office in order to increase household rents year after year on the basis of said reasons. These eight years could also be called the black years of Hungary, and here it is enough to think about the overhead prices, the other tax burdens and the basis for an unprecedented foreign currency debt and the brutal rise in public debt. Dear House, But let's look at the numbers, because even the socialists may not dare to misinterpret, deny or lie. In 2002, when the government changed, the price of residential gas was HUF 45 per cubic metre for 36 pennies, which in just a few years - pay close attention! - Forint 96 went up to 70 cents, and then, by April 2010, the socialists fell to HUF 138 per square meter. This meant a 206 percent increase for each Hungarian household. Of course, it should be added that the world market price for gas was already under-floor, but the overhead costs only increased and increased year after year, until we were at a level that in 2010 a family had to spend a significant part of its monthly revenues to pay its bills. It connects, therefore, in only a few sentences, but I would also like to mention the evolution of electricity prices, which is almost identical to that of gas prices. In 2002 a kilowattor electricity cost 64 cents, which in 2006 was $32.65 forints, and in 2010 it was HUF 48 forints 54 forints. But the same can be said about water prices, district heating, or the supply of waste. I would also like to emphasise once again that all these increases in prices have occurred in the midst of the biggest fall in world market prices, so it has taken a particularly high level of profit and brazenness to take these measures. In 2010, however, the second Orbán government clearly stated that the Hungarian people were on the side of the Hungarian families, and so one of the first steps was the long-term freezing of residential utilities, until we arrived at the beginning of the preparations for the reduction of the rents at the end of 2012. From 2013 onwards, the government has reduced a total of nine public services charges in several steps. The price of gas, electricity and district heating decreased in three steps. In total, the price of gas decreased by 27,6 percent, i.e. almost one third, and the price of electricity decreased by 26.8 percent, i.e. slightly more than one quarter, and the price of district heating decreased by 24.4 percent. In addition, the fee for drinking water, sewerage, bottled gas, sipping waste water, garbage transport and chimney sweeping services has been reduced by at least 10 percent, which has already been completely free of charge by the government. I did not use the term "at least 10 per cent" by accident, as in some places consumers may have experienced a reduction of up to 60 to 90 per cent in terms of waste transport and chimney sweeping services. It is quite clear that the reduction of the rent caused many interests even in politics, as the large multi-company companies could no longer get as much extra profit out of the country as they could take out of the Hungarian people's wallets in the eight years between 2002 and 2010, as they then saved over a thousand billion forints of extra profits abroad. So it was also expected that these companies would first try to drill down on the rent at home, and then, hand in hand, with the Hungarian left, they would launch attacks from Brussels against the reduction of the rent. However, the government stood firm in Brussels and in Hungary for the protection of Hungarian families and Hungarian households, so that the reduction of the rent could survive, so that today we can safely say that a multigenerational large family can save up to 300 thousand forints a year and a retired couple can save 100 to 120 thousand forints as a result of the reduction. It was also not a coincidence that nearly two and a half million people supported the government's efforts in the signing-collection action to protect the cost reduction, which the bureaucrats in Brussels were forced to take into account. However, we must not let the results of the reduction of the bills be wasted, so that all Hungarian households can continue to use public services at the prices established in the long and struggling regime, I ask you to support the motion and presentation of my fellow Member, Mr Szilárd Németh, because it is our duty as Members of Parliament to represent the interests of the Hungarian people. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-11-22-96	Thank you very much, Congressman Banai. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2016-11-22-97	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, We have actually heard political PR sentences in the sentences you have spoken, not a justification for a professional proposal. The problem is that this is what we are seeing most of all in the justification for the bill. I think it is worth looking a little backwards on this issue and looking at the history of how we have come to this point that this bill is now in front of us. In 2013, the Hungarian Energy Office decided not to set system charges for electricity and natural gas, which the licensees challenged before the court, where the government had to reply at the time so that the Hungarian Energy Office would comply with the rules in force and set tariffs by law. So there is no proper legal remedy against this. [[14.50]] EU legislation also requires that normal remedies be provided in all cases, in accordance with the internal market Directives on natural gas and electricity. This is why the European Union, the European Commission, has launched infringement proceedings against Hungary. The government therefore withdrew in May 2016 and submitted T/10523. One of the main aims of which is to re-establish the system charges from 2017 onwards. Now here we are, T/12923. Before the proposal for a regulation, which is contrary to EU legislation, the Government's position in May-June 2016 is also contrary to the requirements of predictable legislation, given that the MEKH already issued decisions on tariffs to licensees on 18 November 2016. According to the justification of the bill, the proposal contains the necessary amendments to preserve the results of the reduction from 2017. As I said, this justification is political PR and not professional justification, nothing more, unfortunately. This justification, as it is, is false. The proposal has nothing to do with the reduction of the rent. The reduction in costs should not be maintained through system charges, but rather by reducing import prices of energy over the last two years in retail universal service prices, as proposed and currently proposed by the MSZP. Up to the average consumption, we have proposed and proposed a 20 per cent reduction in gas prices, a 10 per cent reduction in the price of district heating. The MSZP does not support the adoption of the bill and may result in the continuation of EU infringement proceedings. Although both oil and imported gas prices have decreased by around 50-60 per cent since August 2014, and the government has taken over public ownership of the residential gas supply, they are not settling the reduction in energy prices, but they would have the opportunity. This rule does not provide for making retail price regulation fairer and more sustainable in such a way as to provide a significant advantage to retail consumers up to the average consumption. Ladies and gentlemen, As I said, in May 2016 we had this proposal before us. At the time, even you literally said that you could ask me about the proposal whether there was a risk of a reduction in the rent, and my answer is that the provisions do not affect the relevant provisions of the Recession Act. Ladies and gentlemen, It is up to you to decide which is true, their justification for May 2016 or the current one. Do you or do you not influence my fellow Members? Unfortunately, it can also be seen from the fact that this is just a political PR, and nothing more, that as an independent motion, we have been able to get the Commissioner to submit this proposal, because they have been able to avoid impact assessments, questions about the profession and all that. Dear fellow Member, I see you're struggling to live in democracy. I can see how Szilárd Németh is struggling with the need to ask for these impact assessments and to ask the profession. Therefore, in order to circumvent this, you will submit, as a motion by your own representatives, anything that will be put before you. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that we would expect a professional proposal from Parliament, not political PR actions. We ask that a rule be put before us that is acceptable and regular for everyone. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-22-98	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Mr Lajos Kepli, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-11-22-99	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, In these pockets, the usual give-and-takes, which the Fidesz and the Hungarian Socialist Party have been fighting here for the past eight years and with a reduction in the amount of money from week to week in Parliament, I do not want to be involved. I must say, however, that indeed, the PR texts and the communication panels, which were said by the Fidesz leader, are less interested in us. We're more interested in reality. And, of course, it is also true that you know, do you not, fellow Members, that energy prices on the world market in a favourable situation can be used very positively by all parties, if they are placed on the government, to strengthen their own communication, whether they are called reductions or others. To do that, I'd say we don't need any particular government talent, just a good communications expert. However, it is already the deception of voters and Hungarian citizens, if they do not adapt to real world market price reductions, because it has been said here several times between the walls of the House, and not only between the walls of the House, but, of course, in the professional statements and in the specialised press about this, that there has been a much greater reduction in the price of energy sources on the world market than that which you have validated in the context of the reduction, if it has been validated. Overall, the Hungarian population has indeed been very badly affected by the 8-year government of the socialists, so that I too can do a little more than eight years, but nothing better, I suppose, for the past 6 years, although you can communicate very well to give nothing to something. But, in fact, the cost of overhead and household expenditures, not only did they not decrease, but they increased. And, right, they also ignored the fact that at the moment about 18-20 percent of Hungarian households solve winter heating with firewood, which was left out of the overhead reduction. Of course, this is where they come in with the social firewood programme, which is a very good thing, and otherwise we support all of this in Parliament, but it is not the same as the reduction of the overhead. In this regard, it should also be said that, in such a lawnmower-like reduction, a much fairer system would be justified, which would allow for a greater reduction in the amount of overhead for those more in need; and for those who are heating a pool with energy, leaving the classic example, we would make less use of the benefits of the reduction. Of course, for the most deprived social groups, the most important thing is to receive discounts from the prices of either natural gas, electricity, district heating or water utility charges or waste transport. About these areas are affected by the reduction of rent. This bill sets out the right to the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office for system use and other charges in relation to electricity and natural gas after 1 January 2017. In addition, I have just said that it is really very easy to turn a world market trend into a communication advantage for a government; which is much harder to do, in the long term, to ensure that the population does not get energy at a discount of 10-20, but at even higher rates, at a lower cost. This can, of course, be achieved by increasing investment in energy efficiency and, on the other hand, by measures that include either the decentralisation of energy production or many other measures, but are not now included in this debate or in the framework of this bill. But it is certain that if there is a world market price drop, a discount is obtained and service providers and energy suppliers do not show it to the public as a full discount in the account, it would be expected at least that these profits will be spent on investments that will help, in the long term, either by maintaining the network, modernising, developing smart grids and supporting energy efficiency investments, that, even if the world market processes would no longer justify this reduction, a price level that is much lower than the current one can be maintained. That's what Jobbik would move to, otherwise, in this direction. It cannot be said at the front of the house, because every time there was a bill for reducing the rent before the House, it can be remembered that all my honourable fellow Members, Jobbik, have voted in favour of it. It was not up to us if the population enjoyed even a HUF discount from the measures that the Fidesz government has taken in recent years, we have always contributed to that with our vote. [[15.00]] After all, the small discount is also a discount, and, of course, you have used all the communication panels that exist in this regard, specifically their electoral strategy for 2014 was built around this topic, much more from a communication point of view than from the point of view of presenting real results. So it takes a while to complete the reduction in the cost of the firewood. Here has been Jobbik's proposal to reduce VAT on firewood, which has not been accepted, and this is still an open question as to whether it would not be worth including firewood in this regard, especially fuel or fuel used in the poorer layers. Of course, the government still has the opportunity to do so. And we very much hope that, in the future, the Hungarian population will be able to benefit from an even greater reduction in the proportion of the Hungarian population, a real reduction in the rent, so to say, since, as I have said in recent minutes, these aspects will be preferred in the case of the Jobbik Government, and, in the course of a long-term energy system transformation, it will create a favourable environment where the population can safely obtain energy through properly decentralised energy-generating systems, properly smart grids, and also radically reduce its dependence on imports. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-22-100	Thank you very much, Congressman Kepli. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I give the floor to the first independent Member, Mr Szabolcs Szabó.
u2016-11-22-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was going to talk a little bit longer, but then I realized in the debate that it was probably unnecessary, so I'm really going to try to talk very briefly, just for the record, if you'll excuse me. We probably agree, and I think that there is no debate between us, regardless of party affiliation, that the basic goal is to give people the cheapest possible access to different public services, in parallel with the fact that otherwise this service should be stable, high quality and predictable. The problem we have in Together is that this second leg is not in this so-called ruckus. It all started from the fact that the government wanted to enforce the decline in world market prices very intensively in retail prices and user prices. This is okay in itself, if I start to take away the profits of the service provider and force the service provider to share this profit with the consumer, let him have the profits he has obtained because of the decline in world market prices; this is not what happened, but rather practically the investment of the service providers. Then it went on, and after the energy came the chimney sweep, waste management, drinking water and all that. So, what did you experience? In many places, chimney sweeping is already done by the emergency service provider designated by disaster management, companies dealing with waste management, collection and management are on the verge of bankruptcy, and there are areas where disaster protection designated service providers are operating, and district heating companies receive compensation of ten billion, because otherwise they would not work, it is simply impossible to operate at such prices. The state-owned five largest such water companies suffer losses of HUF 10 billion a year, the state adds this, because otherwise their own company would be ruined, and besides, they do not have the money, not only the water companies, but the others do not have the money now, they do not have the money to maintain it, they do not have the money to improve, and if they manage to raise some EU money, they are still developing, but they do not have their own resources to make any real improvements. And unfortunately, this is the main problem of public services at the moment. Here, the Congresswoman has already pointed out that there is another very important element of this system, which we do not believe has been implemented, namely that prices should be reduced in a differentiated way. I think that, as a socially sensitive citizen, one should rightly expect us to try to support the poorer who consume the little, which is why, as I said, it would have been appropriate to achieve a reduction in the cost in a way that is able to maintain stable, well-functioning services, and to try, preferably socially, to manage these declining public utility prices. So what is this proposal really about? It has already been said, and I do not have to refer to it in particular; it is simply that we have violated an EU directive. I do not want us to go in the direction that we are fighting Brussels, we are Brussels, we are members of the Union, we have violated our directive and our own directive. It follows logically that if we do not allow certain cost elements to be validated by the service provider, we are doing wrong. I'll give you an example through which, I hope, if you're looking at it online, you might understand better what the problem is. Let's assume I'm thinking of cutting the price of beer because everyone likes it, it's a lot of places to buy it, but it's expensive. Let's say I was at a concert yesterday, I had 850 forints of beer, of course I was outraged, but I didn't come in to lower the price of beer by saying that I would find the principle that, say, the brewer is a copper vessel. [[István Szilárd Németh intervenes.]] I will not allow the service provider to include its costs in the costs of brewing beer. [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] Because what would happen if I forced this on a brewery? Ad 1: it would close because it says that it will not deal with it, and I signal: for example, a significant part of the electricity and gas suppliers in Hungary did it to take it all away from the state, he is no longer willing to deal with it. And according to version B, the brewery would say that someone would compensate him for that, so he'd make the beer and make it cheaper to get it on the market, only someone would make up for his losses. The same is happening here, also in the field of public services: the state is loading the money in its own companies, as I mentioned, for example, in the five large public water utilities companies 10 billion a year, and ten billion in district heating companies have already had to be loaded. That's the main problem. Simply, if I don't let you... - it doesn't matter that the public or private company, if I don't let you apply certain cost elements in the price, then I violate the most fundamental EU directive, which, I say, is our common directive. That is why it is important that when we are talking about reducing the cost of public services, reducing the charges, we should be very careful to touch it, I say again, because we need to reduce prices as much as possible, of course, but we must not lay down the service provider. And the third pillar, which I say once again, I would like to emphasise, perhaps for the third time, that we should try to move towards social sensitivity, try to help the poor, the lower middle class that consumes less, the poor a little bit more. If Szilárd Németh is going to make a proposal that will enable this, then we will be very happy to support it, I really do. Thank you so much for listening.
u2016-11-22-102	Thank you, Congressman Szabolcs Szabó. I'll see if anyone else wants to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] No one has applied for further speeches. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[István Szilárd Németh: Yes, thank you very much.]] It says yes. You have the floor, Szilárd Németh. [[15.10]]
u2016-11-22-103	Thank you very much. Allow me three thoughts. Thank you for your comments. I think the picture has become quite clear, not just for me, but for everyone. To the Member, Szabolcs Szabó, I would like to say that we are not Brussels, but Budapest. So the European Union is not made up of Brussels, but of Budapest, Paris, Berlin, Warsaw, a multitude of nation states, and the leaders of the nation states, who are sitting here in Parliament, may also be on government, are responsible for protecting the safety, well-being of their own citizens and how they can organise everyday life. And one of the tools for this was the reduction of the rent, but there was another instrument, which you also objected to, which is to prevent illegal immigration and to prevent the policy in Brussels that wanted illegal immigrants to be introduced into Hungary by 10,000 numbers. The other: I think there is a problem with the position. What I've seen here is that a coalition of MSZP-Together-Jobs is that it's important to everyone. [[Dr. István Apáti: Let's not do this. This is silly, immeasurable nonsense!]] The important thing for each of them is to kick Fidesen, the Hungarian government. Well, obviously they didn't understand what was going on here, they didn't understand that it was about the welfare of Hungarian people, the security of Hungarian people, and that the money that had been taken out of the country so far, we could give it back to the people, and we gave back significant amounts of it. So it is a shame to talk about a forint, for example, my fellow Member made it clear how much prices have fallen since 1 January 2013. This is a 27,6 per cent reduction in gas prices, no European country can show this in residential care and 26,8 per cent in electricity. In the previous years, we have seen that, with a 53.3 percent inflation, otherwise, when world market prices had already fallen in 2008, a 206 percent increase in gas prices and a 97 percent increase in electricity prices were detected; once again, I would like to say at a time when electricity and gas prices on international exchanges were falling. In addition, the Bajnai government allowed itself to make a decision, of course, in the framework of an international treaty, which the newly formed Orbán government could not negate, because the IMF contract stated that gas subsidies should be taken from the Hungarian people, with effect from 1 April 2010. So I think we have nothing to talk about here. We should change the way we look at it. So what I see is that the good thing for Jobbik, for Together and for MSZ is what's wrong for Fidesz. [[Zoltán Magyar: What is good for the country!]] And from here on out, Hungarian citizens don't matter. And Fidesz-KDNP is good for what's good for people, by the way. So this is a huge difference between the two political philosophyes. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: This is a very window text, Congressman!]] The third result, which I think, is quite clear, is that there will be a reduction of the rent and we will continue to maintain the reduction of the rent at international level, at Hungarian level, at political, economic level and at any other legislative level, as long as there is Fidesz-KDNP government and there is a majority of Fidesz-KDNP in Parliament. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-22-104	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Next up is the 2015 XLII on the service relationship of professional staff of law enforcement bodies. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Presentation submitted by MEPs Lajos Kósa and Szilárd Németh Fidesz T/12878. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Szilárd István Németh, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2016-11-22-105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, It is clear from the law that we would like to help the clients of the Honvéd Health Fund with this compensation and Ptk. a bill drawn up on the basis of the law. It is clear that this is the health fund that suffered most of the disadvantages of this Buda-Cash scandal - the Buda-Cash scandal everyone knows - and now we want to remedy it, we want to provide compensation. This bill makes it possible for 1023 people to compensate law enforcement workers and service workers, who, apart from their own mistakes, but not even the cashier's fault, because the cashier wasn't connected to the brokerage company, but to a bank, the bank that tried to pawn the money at the brokerage company - I don't know if that word is a good word here - was ruined, and so, of course, those who were members of the cashier lost their savings, and now we want to meet this compensation. I guess we can't expect a big debate in this bill because I understand there's a five-party agreement here. I would ask my fellow Members to support our proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-22-106	Thank you, Congressman. I ask whether you wish to speak on behalf of the Government, Mr Pogácsás State Secretary. [[Tibor Scones: No.]] It says no. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Agh, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-11-22-107	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Members' proposal is clearly to be supported, because it would also pay compensation to the police in relation to the matter of the Honvéd Health Fund. At the meeting of the Defence and Police Committee, this issue has been raised several times, and on the initiative of the committee, the defence wallet has drawn up a proposal to compensate its own employees. The current proposal also provides for the possibility of compensation for the professional staff of law enforcement bodies after the soldiers. As is known, the members of the cash register burned themselves in the Buda-Cash scandal, except for their own failure, about 28,000 cashier members, mostly soldiers, law enforcement and secret service workers lost a significant share of their savings for health purposes. Ladies and gentlemen, The objective is clear: in addition to soldiers, compensation for law enforcement personnel should also be achieved. The Fidesz faction supports my fellow Members' proposal, and I ask you to support it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-22-108	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2016-11-22-109	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As the speakers before me have said, in fact, on this point, I think that we agree perfectly and that there is a maximum consensus that the former members of the Honvéd Health Fund should in any event be compensated. I am very pleased that after a year and a half, after I have put up and asked questions in interpellation, and my fellow Members have asked the government questions in every possible forum, letter, writing, word, and so on, we have finally managed to get there so that it can be implemented or an opportunity to make amends. What we are currently seeing in the bill is a legal form. Basically, the payment is not yet guaranteed, but I am very optimistic about it, and I am very confident that the payment will actually happen. In any case, since it is apparent that at least the intention now, at least the promise from the government, is to act on this issue, we have therefore submitted a proposal for a resolution to the Parliament. I would also like to ask my fellow pro-government Members and fellow opposition Members here to support this proposal for a resolution, which concerns the payment of compensation to both soldiers, defence workers and law enforcement bodies by 31 January 2017. [[15.20]] As we see now, we have an amendment to the Service Act before us, which means that it will be included in a law requiring a half majority, a legal status law, the possibility of compensation. I was very sorry, by the way, that we saw, for example, yesterday, an example of two thirds of such a legislative place being put into law, but I think that basically the point is that some step is already being taken by the government to resolve this situation. More than a year and a half ago, the bankruptcy of the Buda-Cash Broker house took away the savings of over 27 thousand soldiers, defense workers, law enforcement and national security workers for health purposes. I think that there was no question from the very first moment that both the government and Parliament had a moral obligation to pay them compensation, to get this money back. After all, we know the conditions under which the forces of law enforcement work today, as well as the soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces and the defence workers. We are talking about an incredibly overloaded stock, who are naturally dangerous, and we are also aware of the working conditions, and I think that in this case, in particular, the risk of illness and accidents may be higher, and this health fund savings could have provided extra assistance specifically in such cases. For the staff of the Information Office, according to János Lázár's reply, compensation has already started in the summer, and I am expressing my hope that this has already happened. So this is a positive measure, of course we are in favour of this bill, but I am asking that action be taken as soon as possible, because there has been a pro-government declaration that this lost saving will be paid over three semesters, and we are asking that we support our proposal for a resolution not to extend so long, because there is still more than a year and a half before the government has been waiting to help them when they are in such a situation, because they are serving the safety of Hungarian people, the safety of families every day, risking their lives or even at the cost of their lives. So I think that this payment should be made as soon as possible, so I ask that you support this proposal so that there will be a payment by 31 January, and we will, of course, support this proposal so that compensation can be made. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the MSZP.]]
u2016-11-22-110	Thank you, Congresswoman Demeter. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Mátyás Firtl, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2016-11-22-111	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The bill on the agenda is closely linked to the T/12964. In the light of the changed security environment, defence, the fulfilment of the tasks of the Hungarian Defence Office, including changing tasks in its process, ensuring that implementation is free of obstacles and effective and operational management. The amendment of the law provides for the legal possibility to apply and apply coherently to the personnel of law enforcement bodies the 2011 XLII on defence and the Hungarian Defence Forces and on measures that can be implemented in the special legal order. Indemnity rules which may be introduced by amending law. Dear House, I also think it is important to stress that the emergency of illegal immigration is the result of ensuring the security of the population, the joint work, stability and commitment of the defence and police forces, which I would like to thank again all the professional members of the national security and police forces that have performed their duties. Dear House, The T/12878. Legislative bill No. 1 will transfer the general principle of the right to compensation, which has already been negotiated in respect of the defence, to the staff of the law enforcement bodies, which is equally applicable to those working in the field of law enforcement, and I therefore commend the bill to Parliament on behalf of the KDNP faction, and thank our fellow Members for submitting this bill. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-11-22-112	Thank you, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr István Apáti. You have the floor.
u2016-11-22-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I'm going to make my speech unusually short. We consider this to be a good proposal, and the Group of the Parliamentary Group of Jobbik will support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-22-114	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I'll see if anyone else wants to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. If you wish to speak, István Németh Szilárd will take the floor. [[István Szilárd Németh indicates that he does not wish to speak.]] He won't say anything. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill to declare Social Work Day a public holiday until closure. The submission by Mr Zoltán Balog, Mr János Lázár and Mr Sándor Kovács, Fidesz MEPs T/12921. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Sándor Kovács, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2016-11-22-115	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The declaration of the day of social work as a public holiday, I think that to colleagues in a sphere - I can say that I would be a social worker for colleagues - the recognition of those who do superhuman work, they deal with disadvantaged groups and children. At the meeting of the Nógrád County Assembly on 25 September 1997, Councilman Iván Demus, Chairman of the Social Committee, proposed to celebrate the social work day [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: How they will be pleased! They'll be so happy!]] and the establishment of a new award, the Salkaházi Sára Prize, for the recognition of the work of professionals working in the field of social and child protection. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] The day of social work became 12 November because the international organisation of social workers announced on 12 November 1997 the International Day of Social Action, the main topic of which was the fight against exclusion. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: They should be paid!]] In memory of the international action day and the content of the action day, it was proposed that the social work day should be 12 November each year in Hungary, for the first time in Nógrád. Then the organizational work started, which aimed at making the initiative a national movement. May that day be accepted, after 12 November 1997 at an increasing number of counties, cities and institutions. The counties and cities have established awards for the recognition of the best. By letter dated 15 November 1998, Zsolt Becsó, then president of the county assembly, asked the then in office of the competent minister, Péter Harrach, to take up the patronage of this initiative. At its meeting on 29 April 1999, the General Assembly of Nógrád County also called on Iván Demus to attend the general assembly of the counties and the capital, as well as the local governments of the settlements on 12 November. The legitimization of the social work day took place on 30 August 2000, when the news in the national written press announced that social workers would receive the promised one-off wage supplement on 12 November, the day of social work. [[15.30]] The date of 12 November and the date of social work were published in the national press. In November 2000, Budapest's capital is the Akácos Court and the VIII. In the joint organisation of the district, the date of the first social work at which the competent minister awarded a medal. Minister for Social Affairs and Family Affairs 10/2000. In the SZCSM regulation on the awards granted by the Minister, see paragraph 2 (c): between the date of the award of the prizes, 12 November is the day of social work. In 2001, a smaller or larger celebration was organised in almost all counties on the day of social work. The first national event, supported by the then Minister Judit Csehák, took place on 12 November 2002 at the BM Duna Palace. The social professional association has been organizing the event together with the Ministry since then, every year. But this day is not unprecedented, as it is held in an international outlook on the third Tuesday of March, which is always built around a particular topic, just as it happened on 12 November 1997. I think that we find this appreciation of social workers worthy and eligible. I'm asking you to support our proposal. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-11-22-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. They seem to be refusing to speak on behalf of the government. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2016-11-22-117	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, The aim of the bill is to declare 12 November on the occasion of the social work day a public holiday for the provision of personal care at institutions, service providers, employment or civil servant status, not including day care, and for workers in childcare facilities, service providers, correctional institutions, civil servants or foster parents' employment. As an expression of appreciation for workers in the sector, in recognition of their hard work, this bill ensures that the day of social work is a public holiday - and there is a point at the end. On the occasion of the public service officials' day, 1 July will no longer be a public holiday. Thus, a public holiday will cease in public administration and, for example, in defence workers. It provides for the possibility for the representative body of the local government, other than those in the service of the government or those in the public service relationship, to be able to pay the local government's own revenue to ensure the costs incurred in relation to the qualification of a public holiday day. In this case, 1 July may remain a public holiday for the staff concerned. The social work day has been celebrated worldwide since 1997 as a sign of appreciation for society and the community. On this day, the workers of the field, those who work for the fallen, those in exclusion, those in need of support and assistance, are greeted with responsibility, sacrifice and great professional humility. The staff involved during the public holidays represent around 93,000 people in the area of social, child welfare and child protection services. It should be made clear that the other serious problems and problems for this sector have not been solved during a public holiday. The Social National Professional Council of the Hungarian Public Employees, Civil Officials and Public Service Workers' Trade Union draws attention to unsustainable working conditions and low wages by announcing a 2 hour strike in the social sector on 5 December 2016. The primary aim of the strike is to achieve: 12 November, the day of social work should be a paid public holiday and 30 percent increase in the earnings of workers in the sector as of 1 January. And here's the important sentence for 30 percent increase in employee earnings. For the nursery, the Minister of Human Resources has already set a working day without education. On this basis, 21 April is the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the nursery, and on the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the nursery, and on the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day, and on the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of According to KSH data, nearly 880 000 people worked in the budgetary institutions in August of the year. Of this number, approximately 290 000 people worked in the area of public administration, protection and compulsory social security, but there are no NAV staff in this number, for example, or municipalities where they will no longer provide a public holiday. According to a conservative estimate, at least 500 to 600,000 employees are the circle from which the government takes a public holiday by abolishing the public service official's day on 1 July. This concerns, for example, those working in ministries, government and district offices, document offices, municipalities and NAV. The reasons for the proposal include the introduction of a new public holiday as a sign of the great sacrifice, service, appreciation and respect of social workers. At the same time, however, the question arises that other public administration workers no longer deserve respect or respect, their work is no longer a high-priority service. The government takes a public holiday from its own employees, and one that he gave more than 15 years ago. It seems that the government will return to its 2001 electoral technique, at least as far as the distribution and looting of public holidays are concerned. It was recently published in the Hungarian Gazette that the 10th of June will be a holiday, which is the day of the Hungarian Navy. Before that, the Prime Minister said that there would be a public holiday on Friday as well. Several employers' organisations have criticised the latter idea sharply. In recent years, it has also been suggested that 24 December should be declared a public holiday instead of a great Friday and that this idea was considered eligible by employers' organisations. It is amazing that not the government, but two ministers, as the minister in charge of the Ministry of Human Resources and the minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office, submit the bill as a Member of Parliament, and they are not here in Parliament. It is clear that the necessary social and parliamentary discussions have been cancelled, but it is unlikely that the impact assessment would be carried out by the government in relation to the proposal. The proposal for a bill submitted by independent representatives reflects the two-faced nature of the Fidesz administration, the way it treats the country and the people. On the one hand, it gives to the social sector, on the other hand, it takes away from the administration, the defence and generates a new source of problems in the municipal system. By submitting the proposal, the government, in addition to confronting its former self, but even its own employees, will take away from hundreds of thousands of people a previously acquired right, i.e. a public holiday. This has a serious impact on the workers. It does not exempt the government from a decision which significantly adversely affects workers from leaving it in the social sector, only at another time, a public holiday and renames it as a public holiday on the occasion of the day of social work. Social and professional discussions on the bill, as well as impact assessments on the economic impact, have not been prepared, as it would then be negotiated as a government referral. As a result, Parliament and Members will have to vote on a decision that is not professionally thorough. On the basis of the reasons set out in the bill submitted, it can be said that public service workers are no longer regarded by the government as having their work with respect and respect, since it now applies only to the social sector. It makes me wonder that Minister Balog and Minister Lazarus, as long as they give with one hand, will be lost with the other. One of the precedents of the proposed bill is that one of the demands of the strike announced on 5 December of the MKKSZ is that the day of social work should be a paid public holiday. However, it was not among the claims that the day of public service officials should be abolished at the same time. [[15.40]] The government does not want to make the 30 percent increase in the social sector. This is not included in this proposal. From this, it can be seen that the government does not really want to solve the problems that are troubling the sector, it is simply throwing glass beads at workers by leaving them a public holiday they have already acquired. I think that what we now see in Parliament is a good sign that there are two Members from Fidesz in Parliament, not one of the national ministers has come - I thank the Secretary of State for having at least shown himself in the debate on the bill - and we find this proposal ridiculous, while the government does not solve the excruciating problems that the sector itself is demanding. One of the foundations of appreciation is that these people should be paid, Mr. Secretary of State. Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Socialist Party will develop its position on the law, and I think that we will also submit an amendment proposal, and if our amendment is adopted, we want to support this law, but we have seen what is going on in Parliament over the past period, and we will have no doubt that this will not be adopted either. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Dr. István Józsa applauds.]]
u2016-11-22-118	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Mr Sebestyén, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-11-22-119	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, It is a pleasure for us that the government finally gives in to pressure and introduces or accepts one of the trade unions' demands. On the one hand, we are happy, and on the other hand we are sad - we are sad because the less important of the two demands is what is being implemented, and not what is morally acceptable. What am I talking about? What we were talking about before: Social workers announced the cessation of work on December 5th. They have two demands: one to declare the day of social work a public holiday and the other to declare a 30 percent wage increase. Why is this less important? This is less important because we know very well what difficult financial conditions social workers live in, and it can have dangerous consequences both for their own lives and for the maintenance of the profession and industry if the Ministry or the Government does not change this situation. What am I talking about? I'm talking about who's staying in the business today. They stay with the madmen in the good sense. Even those who belong to this category are not offended by this, and I dare say it calmly; the madmen in a good sense, whose professional vocation is so high that whatever circumstances may be in their workplaces, however humiliatingly low they may earn, still consider this career to be their profession and life, and do not leave it at any cost. There remain people who consider the sector a stepping stone, whether they work a few months or a few years, then either leave the country or go to a better-paying job in the private sector. The third option is the saddest: people who do not have any professional vocation are going to work on the field, but it is only possible that in their living environment there is no other job in which they can be placed - that is the worst category. Every day, we experience that social professionals in Western Europe, whether with a degree abroad or not, are doing auxiliary work instead of humiliating salaries and unlivable salaries, so we say that we do need to introduce a social career model, and that we do need a 30 percent wage increase, so let us finally make sure that social sector workers are not the worst paid in the country. Unfortunately, it can be said that today in Hungary only public workers make worse money than social workers. This situation is unsustainable, the system will collapse, there will be no one to carry the sector on his shoulders, there will be no one to carry this system on his shoulders. This 30 percent wage increase demand is also only the minimum of the expected expectations. With this 30-percent wage increase, only those working in the social sphere will achieve the average wage for education. We need to take these steps. On average, people in the health sector earn around 22-23 percent better than those in the social sphere. It is not enough that I have just outlined who are still working for their profession today, and how emigration affects the sector, even inter-branch emigration is constantly affecting the sector, because if a person with similar professional experience with the same qualifications earns 20-25 percent more if he goes to the other side of the road and goes to the hospital instead of working in the nursing home, we cannot expect nurses working in the elderly home or in other types of care to stay in the profession and not to go to health care. Or let us take a social worker with a teacher's education, who has the opportunity to work through the education system - he will not do it, because the 30-35 percent wage difference does mean as much as it is attractive to him; however dedicated he is, no matter how much he likes to do his job, as much as he likes to deal with the particular area, his own or even his family is unfortunately more important than these aspects. The other claim point, therefore, should have been put forward in the first place, either as an independent motion by its representatives or as a government referral, so that the minimum wage increase of 30 per cent in the sector would be achieved as of 1 January. And speaking of achieving the less important claim point here, the way it is introduced is simply outrageous. Among the signatories, we see who is involved, this is the discreet charm of pyrar irony, giving social workers the day of social work as a public holiday, while taking July 1 as a public holiday away from public service workers. Do you think this is a good way? Do you think this is worthy and just? Either don't give me anything or give it to everyone. It's a bit of an odd story. Now, aside from what the previous speaker said about the problems that arise, whether the measure in this way raises moral concerns, let us not forget that it is possible that two sectors will be teased. Is this good for you? This is the same as a replacement for increasing wage voltage or a career model introduced in certain sectors and not in the other. It also causes wage tension and sectoral tension; this measure will also cause it. Let us now take an ordinary example: consider the situation in which the child welfare centre employee visits the social department of the municipality in connection with a common problem or goes to the social services office to talk to his colleague there. What tension do you think is going to cause him to receive November 12 as a public holiday, and on the other hand, the colleague to whom he is going to agree on a case loses July 1st? And the other part is how many people we're talking about, how many people can get this discount. We know very well that there are continuous working arrangements in many areas of the social sector, and that older people cannot be left because it is a public holiday, because children cannot be left on a public holiday, because it is a public holiday, and people with disabilities in need of care and care cannot be left because it is a public holiday. So not many people will really be able to see the benefits of this in the sector, and if we actually add that we are talking about looting benefits for another sector, and we are talking about taking away a public holiday, and it is certainly outrageous how they want to introduce it. So it is outrageous that a bad demand has been chosen from the two demands of the trade unions, and it is outrageous that the day of social work will be introduced in parallel with the day of public holidays of others. So please change that. We also have an amendment in this regard, which is about the fact that the item, the passes on the removal of other public holidays, should be excluded from the proposal. If that happens, we can support the bill in this form. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-22-120	Thank you, Congressman. István Ikotity, a representative of the LMP, applied for a speech, and I take it that he will give his speech on behalf of the LMP Group. You have the floor. [[15.50]]
u2016-11-22-121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, This bill is a perfect impression of the government's attitude towards public sector workers. It's cynical, and instead of honoring the workers, it's about humiliation, translation of them against each other. The bill presented by Zoltán Balog and János Lázár would make the day of social work a public holiday by eliminating the day of public service workers as a public holiday with the same momentum. Of course, the two days have nothing to do with each other, there is no overlap between the workers, so it is not about double celebrating anyone, and it is therefore necessary to end one of the holidays. These are two completely independent groups of workers: the social sector of 93,000 people and more than 110,000 civil servants and government officials. So there is no logical relationship between the two days. János Lázár and Zoltán Balog tabled this proposal in the form of an individual motion. Without prior consultation with the Civil Service Stakeholder Forum, János Lázár proposed the abolition of the holiday, which in itself says a lot about how much he values workers under his own wallet. It places a special point on municipal civil servants when it allows the municipalities to hold a public holiday at their own expense on 1 July. Zoltán Balog's cynical attitude towards social workers is also well illustrated by the justification of the proposal. I quote: "Social work is an extremely important, valuable activity of social division of labour. As an expression of appreciation for workers in the sector, in recognition of their hard work, this bill ensures that the day of social work should be considered a public holiday.-The extremely important value-building activity is so highly appreciated by the government that they have not been able to raise wages in the worst paid sector for six years, only one after another. In the 2010 government programme, the government promised real financial appreciation, and then nothing came of it. The bonus introduced in 2014 represents just over HUF 5 000 net on average, and already a third of the sector's worst earner is missing out of the additional bonus introduced a year later. The substitute, as we know, can be withdrawn at any time by a pen stroke, is not a part of the wage. From this point of view, it is particularly cynical for Minister Zoltán Balog to write about the appreciation and recognition of the work of workers in the sector. If there's something the government hasn't done, it's that it hasn't settled the wages of the worst earning social workers. That is why there is a 10% shortage of workers in the social sector, so leave the field or the country who can. The aim of the ministers with this proposal is quite clear. They want to kill two birds with one stone: they want to take the strike on December 5 with a cheap step that doesn't cost anything, and they want to turn social and public service workers against each other. This is the already-known, share it and conquer it, which we have seen so many times in recent years. It is easier to overcome dissatisfaction with the government by dividing and turning workers against each other than by fulfilling claims, by settling the situation of the workers. You are not interested in the way people live, whether those who do the state's work are able to make a living on their salaries. He doesn't care about people living below the minimum of living, he just cares about order, and the workers are happy with what they get. The May Other, according to Politics, is unacceptable because of the amazing cynicism of the proposal, even if it includes declaring the day of social work as a public holiday on 12 November. It is unacceptable not only for the reasons already listed, but also because it is possible for workers to have such a public holiday not only in place of wage planning but also in addition to it. The day of social work as a public holiday is not a substitute for a wage increase. As we know, there will be no real wage increase next year, another bonus, the combined bonus, which will be filled again with some. The minimum wage increase will improve the situation, but it will not even be enough to raise wages above the minimum wage and will not change wages above the minimum wage. According to the LMP, therefore, this proposal cannot be accepted. Do not play chess with public holidays by translating workers against one another and without a wage increase of real financial appreciation. Thank you, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2016-11-22-122	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I give the floor to Congressman Peter Konya.
u2016-11-22-123	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Not long ago, the President of the Democratic Trade Union of Cradle Workers said at a forum: people working in crèches, disability care, child protection, elderly care also put their own personalities into work, and practically their work reflects the emotional state of those working there. Therefore, it does not matter what pay is paid and how much society values workers in the social sector. Unfortunately, I have to say I don't. There is no way, since in the present situation the workers in the social sector are doing the least in Hungarian society. As my fellow Members have mentioned, they practically have the lowest earnings other than public workers. Allow me to give you some information, and perhaps it will also make my fellow members of the Government aware that there is an urgent need for a change in the social sector, who, by the way, deserve all respect from the Hungarian society, the Hungarian Parliament and the Hungarian Government, as they are doing a sacrifice every day that helps those in need, doing their job with selflessness and honor. According to a 2016 KSH statistical data, the national economy was, overall, HUF 162 275 net earnings in 2015. The same was HUF 144 555 in human health care, while HUF 71 921 in social care. Do you feel this huge difference, fellow Members? Otherwise, the situation of problems in the social sector is well illustrated by the age tree that shows the average of those working there. The proportion of 18-29-year-olds in the social sector is only 8 percent, the proportion of 30-39-year-olds is 24 percent, the proportion of 40-49-year-olds is 33 percent, the proportion of 50-59-year-olds is 30 percent and the proportion of those over 60 is 5 percent. This shows that low social and material prestige results in this path dying out, while it is clear that this job will be needed in the long term and perhaps forever, because a normally functioning society cannot function without adequate social care and cannot operate without workers in the social sector. However, it is also well illustrated by the statistical evidence that the proportion of female workers in the social sector is above 90 per cent. This also shows, unfortunately, how humiliated and vulnerable these workers are. What workload and circumstances do these people have to work under? The multi-shift work schedule is entirely typical of them. The tasks have increased over the past few years, as they are understaffed, so those who work there must also be able to do their job by doing their job with a fantastic sacrifice. They have a lot of diseases, so they have to deal with spinal, hip, cartilage damage. I don't know if you know how the birth mass of babies has changed. 30-40 years ago, babies were born with an average of 3,200 grams, 15-20 years ago with 3,500 grams, today with 3800-4000 grams, in Hungarian: babies are born with a mean weight of 4 kilograms. With a 12 - person crèche worker and infant population, this means 60 to 100 raises a day, so many times you have to move 10 to 18 kilograms of weight. We are talking about women who need to move such weights, which means that after 20-25 years of employment, they suffer health damage which, by the way, prevents them from being able to carry out their duties. There is an extremely high turnover in this area, since with such respect, it is no wonder that those who, by the way, cannot support their own family can leave the course. [[16.00]] While, of course, it is to be welcomed that if the government gives the workers some kind of appreciation, I was a little reminded of this public holiday, like when as a professional soldier there was no money for wage development, and then they were handing out different medals to the soldiers, which, of course, didn't involve any money, but they said, well, at least society appreciates you. There was one of my colleagues who immediately cut into the drawer and never wore that medal in his life, because he said that if they only gave him a medal because they couldn't appreciate his work with wages, they shouldn't give out medals. This is probably how the vast majority of those working in the social sector will be, by the way, to pin it on their hair, my fellow pro-government Members, this holiday, because they really need a salary that they can make a living with honor, decent work, and care for their families. This should be given to them, and not a public holiday, while, of course, a day off is good for everyone, but we really need proper wages. Typically, this bill is nothing more than to divide and conquer and, by the way, Viktor Orbán's new petty revenge on trade unions. If we analyse this question as to why this amendment has come in now, it is quite clear: the strike demands of the Hungarian civil servants, the Union of Public Employees, have resulted in this proposal to amend the law in order to share the membership of the trade union and the people they represent in some way. It is quite clear that, by abolishing the day of civil servants at the same time, 1 July is the day of civil servants, they will retaliate at Péter Boros and the Hungarian Public Officials' Union just because they managed to take a successful and successful strike in 170 municipalities during the summer. Now they've come up with another strike demand, and they've announced a strike on December 5th. Well, before this strike takes place, instead of negotiating with the unions, with interest representatives on how to solve the sector's problems, you are now trying to share the trade unions with a pen stroke, because this union, which, by the way, came up with a strike demand for social workers, represents both civil servants and government officials. It is obvious that they want to weaken this union and confront the workers they represent with such a decision to end the civil service day with a pen stroke while giving the workers in the social sector a public holiday. Well, my fellow Members, Viktor Orbán said in an interview on Sunday that he has a camaraderie relationship with the unions. Of course, he said this because of the negotiations on the minimum wage increase, but if this camaraderie is what they are doing, my honourable government and fellow members of the government, then you do not know what the word camaraderie means. It does not mean that at all, so it would be good for Viktor Orbán to refund his relationship with trade unions if he so rated it. By the way, I also remember you telling us to negotiate with your Clown Secretary of State for the benefit of the employees we represent. This doesn't show his camaraderie, and this bill doesn't show that. If you recall the wage conditions in the social sector that were announced a few minutes ago, now it seems that we have reached an agreement on a significant minimum wage increase for the government, employers and trade unions, which means that the minimum wage will actually last the wages of those working in the social sector to the full, as many are employed in or on the minimum wage, but it will also shift to the wages of those who are not making substantial wage improvements from 1 January onwards who are earning a little more than the minimum wage in the social sector. In fact, by raising the minimum wage, we cannot fail to achieve that a significant majority of workers in the social sector will be employed at minimum wage levels in Hungary if there will be no significant wage development in this sector from 1 January. It is quite clear that the government and the pro-government representatives must also consider how to start and, in large steps, to catch up the wages of workers in the social sector, at least to the wages of those working in health care. This requires effective action as from 1 January, which is why it is not a public holiday to spot workers' eyes, but rather to give them effective and normal wage development in this sector. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] So I expect the government and I expect the pro-government representatives to take action in this direction, and at the expense of the amending budget or whatever the reserve - Hungary will perform better, according to you, in the social sector - to do better - to develop normal wages in this sector, and to forget at last that if someone, some group of employees, tries to represent them, then you will take small revenge both on trade unions and on those who dare to raise their voices against it. It would be good if you would change this attitude, because I very much hope that otherwise it will come back to you in 2018. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-11-22-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Károly Czibere, Secretary of State, has applied for a speech. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-11-22-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, T/12921 by representatives of the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association I would like to present a government position on the bill submitted to this House, while responding to what has been said in the debate. On 12 November each year, we thank social professionals working for those who are in need of help, support and support, who are responsible for their work, with loyalty, sacrifice and professional humility, so this is a long tradition, a sign of appreciation for society and the community, celebrating the day of social work around the world. In Hungary, the day of social work became November 12, because the international organisation of social workers announced the International Day of Social Action by November 12, 1997 and for this occasion, the main theme of which was the fight against exclusion and the fight against exclusion. After that, after the organization of 97, an organizational work was launched in Hungary, which aimed to make this initiative a national movement and to make it a day of social work. As a result of this organizational work, celebrations were organised in more counties, cities and institutions, counties and cities were awarded awards for the recognition of the best professionals and social workers. The legitimacy and national distribution of the day of social work are linked to the name of the first civil government, which took place in 2000, and in the previous years the National Institute for Family and Social Policy was a very large part of this country's preparation. After all, 10/2000. This date was first named in the SCM Regulation. Social work is the same age as humankind, as all communities care for the fallen, the poor and the sick, a measure of society and solidarity, how they live with the poor, how they care for the poor, how they care for the need for help and support. At the same time, the government wants to find the means to effectively combat the risk of poverty and exclusion. Under the title "Liberty and Responsibility" of Hungary, Hungary states that it protects families, children, women, the elderly, people with disabilities. This work is particularly important for employees who are self-employed or who work in social institutions, who provide daily help and support to people in need. In addition to the immediate help of social workers to prevent serious crises, they also provide crisis-solving conflict management strategies to help people in need, helping them to thrive in everyday life and give people hope and hope. The care of children, elderly people, people with disabilities, homeless people is far more than work, we believe that this is a service and a profession. The activities of social professionals imply exceptional qualities, internal maintenance, vocation, commitment, sacrifice and self-sacrifice. [[16.10]] And indeed, as you have said, they burn their own personalities almost every day, so it is important to help them rejuvenate from day to day. Commitment and vocation have a new meaning here, making the days of fallen people, often extremely vulnerable, easier by their blessed activities, altruism and attitudes. They are in a superhuman struggle to improve human dignity and quality of life for those entrusted to them. It is therefore important to provide them with all possible forms of appreciation by all means. One of these forms is the declaration of November 12 as a public holiday day. Several people here in the debate said that this is the government's way of pecking out the eyes of their coworkers. This is not the case, as they know precisely that six career working groups were formed in 2014, and a number of proposals were made in these working groups that prepared the career. I have not yet been State Secretary in a working group that has prepared the career, and this proposal has been formulated in a working group preparing such a career. So when someone says that this proposal has been formulated as a result of a trade union strike, it cannot be interpreted, since the career groups put this proposal on the government's table in 2014-15. So this is not a recent event; it is simply a matter of several elements that this proposal is made up of, and they are constantly coming before Parliament. Let me point out that in June we announced the programme that will provide the basis for a future training system. This is also an important element of the career, in order to ensure the free organisation of further training in the new training system for employees. This concept includes the new management training system replacing the exam, it is included in this programme, which we announced this summer, the 1 billion-dollar development that will provide the staff's supervision in the area. So you will be faced with a number of elements in your process that together ensure that respect does not only take place in principle or in oral forms. We also need to talk about material appreciation. When we say that there was no wage development or wage increase in the area, then on the one hand we have to say that there was and on the other hand we have to say that, of course, there is still a place. It should also be said that in 2014 12 billion, 8 billion in 2015, 8 billion in 2016, and there is already a decision that in 2017 another HUF 9 billion wage-mass financing and support will come into the system. Over these four years, in addition to the wage-weight guaranteed in the public employee pay table, 97 billion additional funding is coming into the system, regardless of the minimum wage impact. In addition, the maintainers receive this in a sector-neutral manner, and it should be used directly to pay the employees. A number of people have suggested that this is not a raise because it does not go under the lease. At the minimum wage increase, you'll see what would have happened if you'd been undercover. The fact that the extra wage and the additional wage will be put together is the only way to make it easier for our employees and maintainers to apply for it, to make it easier for workers to have this extra wage, this increase in wages, and the next 9 billion will basically be determined in this way, not to rent it, but to simply have an additional effect. On the one hand, the minimum wage increase announced today and the guaranteed minimum wage increase will mean a wage increase, and this will be the result of the 9 billion surplus already granted and decided. The distribution and differentiation of this depends essentially on how the effect of the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage increase affects each grade. If we see that it affects the vast majority of employees and affects those in categories A, B, C, D, E in a higher proportion than current wages, then next year, the increase in wages already decided by the government should be distributed to those with higher education and a longer career. At least that is what we think, but of course we would also like to discuss it with interest representatives. That there is no communication with interest representatives and that it is also important to correct the strike call in this regard: 25 meetings have been held in the last two years. Almost every month, there was consultation with trade unions and trade unions, and a sectoral stakeholder forum for the social sector was established, with employers and employees in addition to the government. There is a continuous and intensive dialogue and there are reconciliations of claims. We believe that the results so far have been achieved because we have been able to achieve them by the negotiating table. We continue to believe in negotiations and negotiations at the negotiating table, and this is how we have achieved the results so far. And I think that a very important point in this cooperation is the current bill, that the social work day can be a public holiday. I would like to ask honourable Members, the Honourable Parliament, to support the legislative amendment tabled by the representatives of the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-22-126	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Rig, Jobbik Group, has made a statement. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-22-127	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! Thinking about what has been said here, it is very simple to summarize: take nothing, take it well. When this bill came before the committee, I said that it was a good way, because we have to give respect, moral respect to those working in the social sector, because they have put something down on the national table for decades; they have done something, but they have not received anything for it. They asked for two claims, one of which is now trying to meet at some level with a negative impact on workers in another sector. Against civil servants. Let's not tease each other about these two sectors. That's one of them. The other: Mr Secretary of State and Member also spoke very nicely about the story of why this had to be done on 12 November. That's right. He explained the sacrifices that social workers are doing, explained the dangers they are facing, and also said that burnout syndrome in this sector is much greater than in the health sector. And why is that? That's because they're doing a job of sacrifice, and for a lot less wages than health workers. There are therapists who try to help them and advise them to do recreation and recreation activities. Yeah, but when? When they're done working and they go home to their families? If they have a family, if they're not divorced yet. Because it is also a fact and statistical fact that most of the people working in the health and social systems are divorced and separate, raising their children alone. So if you finish the job, which is not only eight hours a day, but maybe twelve hours if you do it conscientiously, and then you have the family. After that, he can no longer pursue recreational activities. What are your demands? Wage development, and I don't want to repeat that. If the Secretary of State closes his eyes, looks deep into himself and wants to answer honestly, then he says that yes, Congressman, he is right, we need this increase in wages, so we are fighting, and we will give it to them next year. November 12th will fall next Sunday. This may be demagogy, but after the next year, the 2018 election. It won't be enough for social workers. The first step for social workers is the wage increase, the career model, which has been waiting for you for a long time, and this is the rest day. With which they can be helped by the local government, the donation of recognition titles, which is the possibility for each local government, as it can determine by decree what local awards are bestowed on a citizen of honor, whether by a person working in the health or social sphere. [[16.20]] Many cities can only do that on 12 November they commemorate all of their employees, who care for the elderly, people with intellectual disabilities and those in need, people who we or people like us unfortunately cannot provide them with our work, so we need their help. We politicians have only one task to do in this, but we have to help them in gratitude. Jobbik can support efforts to make 12 November a public holiday day for those working in the social sector, but not to hit other workers to take it away from them. In my opinion, give the other person a chance. My fellow Member, Mr Sebestyén, said that it is indeed the social sphere, and I am going to speak again against myself, which has the greatest exhausting effect on health. After all, there is a common set of care between those working in the social sector and those working in the health sector. And about 40 percent of healthcare is based on a care mechanism. So it goes to health care without thinking in the social sphere, because there was a certain wage development, it has to do the same work as in the previous sector, but for a little more wages. And that might give you time to do recreational activities. After all, EU funds were available to those working in the health sector, so that they could go to a long weekend recreational course, where professional psychologists worked with it, recreational experts. This was part of EU funds. Unfortunately, this was not available in the social sector. I think, and I'm going to put it mildly, that this idea, if I look on the bright side, is feasible. But I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, if you think so, to withdraw the other part of what is about civil servants. I mean, it would put a very distinctive mark on them that they weren't so important. Everyone's part of the unity, the state, the state apparatus, they all put something on the nation's table, and I think we shouldn't take what he put down there. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-22-128	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I wonder if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[Sándor Kovács: For closing.]] I don't see any contact. Excuse me, Congressman. There's a time for everything. I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Sándor Kovács, as rapporteur, who wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-11-22-129	Thank you very much. My apologies, Mr President, but I think it is imperative that I reflect on some of the speeches. Let's go back. Péter Kónya is an independent representative: let us blame this day off on our hair. I think this is offensive to those who demand it, to those who work in the social sphere, even if you lack wage development. I think that the Secretary of State has given the answer that, on the one hand, we had to wait for the social partners to negotiate the minimum wage and the minimum wage today, because it will be built on the HUF 9 billion that the social sector plans to add as a wage supplement or as a wage supplement for 2017. I think this is an answer to all the speeches by Members where, in addition to the moral appreciation of the public holiday, it was also about wage development. But let's not go past István Ikotity, or the second part of the law that others think is cynical, which takes away the working day of civil servants. I think we need to stop and talk about the reorganisation of the state administration, since the 2016 LII. The Act on State Officials does not apply to civil servants in the public administration. Let us take due patience and consideration when the public sector, civil servants, public officials, state officials at the moment, once again, is undergoing a step-by-step reform, red tape is being reorganized, this system. So I think it's not cynical, and it's not about breaking up different spheres, it's just about following the laws. But as Lajos Rig said, how parallel health care and social care are, I think there is one more thing in common, because 1 July remains Semmelweis Day, a day of moral appreciation for health workers, which is also a paid holiday for health workers. I think that these comments are unworthy of the principle that the government would like to give a moral appreciation to the aforementioned wage development in a sector of social services, which, I think, is beyond debate in all our lives. So I would ask my fellow Members, if they have an amendment, to submit it, to debate it, but please support this kind of noble idea. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-11-22-130	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 1997 CXL on museum institutions, public library provision and public education. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Presentation by János Lázár and János Halász, representatives of Fidesz T/12922. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr János Halász, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Congressman, please.
u2016-11-22-131	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The amendment of the law on museum institutions, public library provision and public education, the amendment of the law called the cultural law in short, has already been made before the House several times in order to ensure that goods held in museums can be presented as flexible as possible. We have dealt with this a lot in recent years, and we have amended this law several times. In 2013, there was an amendment that gave the government the right to create a regulation, and we amended the regulation, and then we introduced new concepts in this law, such as lending, designation or asset management, which allowed museums that could not show their treasures, but they might be needed elsewhere, those treasures to get there and people to see it. During this process, we were able to organize many locations, the Esterházy Castle, for example, or the Festetics Castle in Keszthely, where the artifacts that used to be there could be returned, but otherwise they were already in the management of other museums. We were able to move the system. It also allowed the various confiscated art treasures to be returned to their rightful owners in a transparent, state-ordered procedure in the Second World War and in the subsequent dictatorship. On the one hand, our current amendment would like to introduce an opportunity for exploitation that, on a fair basis, could still expand this element. This is because there are cases where the state is the owner of a given artifact, but it is obvious and verifiable that this art ensemble belonged to someone, a family from whom it was confiscated. If they can prove that, they can get these treasures back in the process of fairness laid down here. That's all this is about this type of return part of the amendment. Moreover, this concerns a very narrow framework, because in most cases what happened was that the confiscated artifacts were somehow included in the public collections, and these moments are all justified, this part has been handled by the law, and in a return procedure several people have been able to recover these artifacts. [[16.30]] But there are special cases where the state has actually purchased art treasures, there are contracts about this, and unfortunately, everyone involved is no longer among us, so it cannot be solved, but it can be verified that the family owns the art. We talked about this at a cultural committee meeting, and there were indeed cases where objects were taken from castles, for example, they were somewhere in certain lofts for decades, and suddenly sold in a rural museum. We know such a specific case, but because there is a valid sales contract there, the State cannot return it under the current laws, no matter how much certification procedures the former owner can prove to have it. This equity opportunity, which is included in this law, in the current amendment, will be able to provide all this opportunity. That is what this amendment is about. By the way, the conditions for the application of the exploitation contract still need to be amended in the law, the order of the acquisition, the content of the exploitation contract, the liability and the liability obligations, even when it says that it gives the government the right to establish a regulation. In part, these details can all be seen. I would ask you to look at this law, discuss it, and then accept it, because this will enable us to complete the return procedure, to complete the legislative framework so that we can serve justice, and I very much hope that the elements not included in this debate will not be found here, because that would be foolish. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-22-132	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking you, on behalf of the government... [[Nándor Csepreghy rises to speak.]] Yes, on behalf of the Government, Mr Nándor Csepreghy wishes to speak. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-11-22-133	Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Thank you very much for the opportunity to speak. I would just like to add a few thoughts to what Mr Fisherman said, because there are many Members in Parliament who have part of their lives during the communist dictatorship period. These people, these Members, do not have to present the many or diverse repressions that all Hungarian citizens have had to live during this period, because the Hungarian state power of that time tried not only to make people's lives impossible through the means of law, but also tried to enforce it through countless unwritten rules. However, there were also laws in which the Hungarian State intervened in people's lives, such as XXV of 1948 on the takeover of individual industrial companies into state ownership. Act VII of 1949 on the abolition of religious beliefs Act No. 4, Decree-Law No. 4 of 1952 on the acquisition of certain immovable property by the State, or Decree-Law No. XIII of 1949 on museums and monuments. Decree-Law No 13 of the year 2004 supplementing and amending the Act. These government measures, these decisions at that time, were all about the taking of property from people working for our country, the confiscation of property or, let us say it, theft of property, and then there was an atmosphere in Hungary, in which wealthy people, who might have had such treasures, realized that the only real protection could be offered to different public collections in the course of forced gifts. What the Member said, I would certainly like to add to the fact that the circumstances of the gift at that time were clearly controversial in many cases, but the recovery of these privately owned artifacts is legally impossible after the change of regime. Therefore, it is important for the current government to take serious account of the fact that, where appropriate, at least it will partially restore to the original owners the possibility of enjoying these treasures or the possibility of using them; of course, if this has the legal guarantees that are available for the preservation, accessibility to the public and the preservation of public property of these state-owned artifacts. In the case of appropriate guarantees, in the case of proper control and in addition to the principles of full transparency, we believe that the government can support this amendment with a breast width, and also asks the Parliament to consider these aspects, which are also an open chapter of the 1989-90 regime change. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-22-134	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Robert Simon, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-22-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In order to repair the wounds caused by World War II and the unjust measures taken by subsequent socialism, it is important to create the possibility for former owners or their heirs to regain the treasures of the art which they were deprived of in the second half of the 1940s and the nationalisation measures in the 1950s. We should not forget that the pressure not declared in legislation, but in practice, also affected these mementos, because many families had no choice but to offer family heirlooms to the state by giving gifts so that they would not be harmed or at least harmed as little as possible. In my circle of acquaintance, there are families, or older people, who likewise, fleeing from various reprisals, volunteered to offer their own treasures to the state or local government. Thus, the public collections still have a large number of artifacts that are owned by the government or, as I mentioned, by the law of the communist regime. Many of the descendants of former owners have been struggling for many years or decades to regain these former family treasures. The amendment of the law that Parliament is discussing now creates a new legal institution for the removal of these works of art from public collections of state-owned cultural assets. A new paragraph would be added to the proposal: provisions on lending, assignment to asset management and the procedure for the designation of a place of custody and presentation. This is because we know that, under the current rules, these individual cases cannot be resolved, so this particular new paragraph, this new regulation, would specifically, specifically, apply to these cases. The new regulation creates joint responsibility for state-owned cultural goods for several ministers concerned, the Minister for National Development, the Minister for Human Resources and the Minister for Cultural Heritage. This is also the guarantee, the joint and several government responsibility, which ensures that this exceptional mandate is not abused. In conclusion, I consider the proposed bill to be eligible as the lead speaker of the Fidesz fraction, because I see that the ones in it are trying to find the best solution for a reasonable need. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-22-136	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Kiss, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. [[Sándor Szabó: He is not, I am instead!]] I'm sorry, I'm asking for your understanding, there's been a change, I just didn't look at the monitor. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Sándor Szabó. You have the floor.
u2016-11-22-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I try not to be silly. [[Defiance.]] Just to get the point out of the proposal. Indeed, there is a proposal before us that the Minister has tabled, although it is quite strange that he did not submit it as a minister, but as a Fidesz Member, and we cannot quite interpret it, but anyway, the Minister has tabled this proposal. There are a few questions that this proposal raises. The current proposal states that: the Minister will then decide on the transfer of assets belonging to the cultural heritage held in public collections of state or local government, without any competition from this point forward, in cases of circumstances which are of particular relevance to appreciation. [[16.40]] The first question is what is meant by the fact that, in circumstances that require special appreciation, because it is indeed a very short bill, neither the criteria nor the conditionality, there is nothing to determine when this case might, however, arise, that these assets may be transferred into possession in circumstances that are of particular appreciation. From now on, I think it could be a question of reference, we could also say that without further ado, it would be good to know exactly what this concept means. There are very strict rules for handling artifacts, and we know that only authorised persons are allowed to enter the warehouses, and security personnel record every movement 24 hours a day. Works of art can't even be viewed by the employees of the museum for pleasure, so it's a very well-written thing, and many times you have to move an object inside the museum or borrow something from each other for a temporary exhibition of institutions. At the moment, there are two cases of artifacts that can be removed from the museum, which is also very controlled. One way out of the museum is to borrow property, there are rules on it, this is the current rule that we are amending, as well as the EMMI Regulation on the lending of cultural goods held in museum institutions and the designation procedure. Another way is for the Minister to designate where else to present the subject, thereby giving him an opportunity to provide wide access. The current proposal aims to introduce a new concept when the Minister actually owns these assets. The Minister of Human Resources responsible for public collections, in this case Zoltán Balog, should ask for his opinion only from now on, but the bill does not state whether his opinion would otherwise bind Minister Lazarus as Minister for the Protection of Cultural Heritage, even as a practitioner of ownership rights. The Minister for Development decides on the matter, and the Minister for Construction is the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, János Lázár himself, who can make a decision on it. So there are still a number of questions, including why this proposal should be tabled now. If we could get some answers to that, that would be comforting. Why did John Lazarus present him as a fidesz representative? So I think that it would have been worthy of the profession, too, if the government had prepared a proposal for this and it would have come before this House. The reason why this issue is interesting is because the museum profession was not very happy with the amendment of the law in 2013 even in the course of the previous amendment. At the time, the amendment was made that, in the light of national cultural interests and with a view to the objectives of wide access, it could designate for a limited period the place for the preservation or presentation of state-owned cultural assets in the basic inventory of the museum institution. Even then, there was no complete agreement in the profession in this regard. I think that if there was a kind of negotiation in this, it would certainly be appreciated; and the Trade Union of Public Culture and Public Collection Workers has also previously protested against this plan. If we get reassuring answers to these questions, then I think that the proposal can be supported, but until we have the right answers to these questions, we cannot support it in this case. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-22-138	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-11-22-139	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The bill before us is a 38/D. Article 38/A, /B, /C. §s, which we have already criticized quite a bit. Let us admit that life has shown us in many respects, for anyone could have heard of rather scandalous circumstances when Árpád Habony's former mother - in - law was placed with about 300 million in XVII. 1 and XVIII It's a century-old painting borrowed from the Museum of Fine Arts. It is about the same procedure, the same kind of method of concluding a property management contract with certain persons or organisations under the law, or of lending cultural goods registered in such museum institutions to non-museal institutions. We have therefore already challenged this and had serious reservations about this whole possibility, the entire institutional system. Now comes the next point of this legislative passage, and unfortunately, there are more questions here, because they are all nice and good, what you have just told us is indeed, the II. The situation after World War II, the communist takeover, the vulnerable situation at that time could have caused and caused unfair and unfair circumstances, that is a fact and a fact, that is a pity to argue. At the same time, I would like to be allowed an interim thought. Not only has this type of property been transferred to the State, but now the Secretary of State has listed several laws for us on how the various assets have been nationalised, so not only such artifacts have become the property of the State from the former owners, but also buildings and real estate. Let me give you an example: Szemlőhegy utca, Budapest, II. Circumference, the Tiny Fork. I don't know if they know who lives in that building right now. How did the former Buda villa, which is already in beautiful condition, disappear? How did the owners of that time get out of possession? If the current descendants of the then-owned owners were to knock on your door once and say that we were in an extremely unworthy position after the communist takeover, and we would like this situation, the broken wheel of time, to be restored by you now, and ask for this property back - what would the Fidesz government's answer be? Obviously, this is an example taken. There are many such and similar properties, not only in the Buda Mountains, but throughout Hungary. So if historical justice ever really came to Hungary, we would have to stir up a lot of status quos, we would have to disturb the status quo that seems certain at the moment. However, returning to the bill before us, this bill is only about and specifically about certain artifacts, but the possibility that you provide is the justification that these artifacts can be borrowed from public institutions or public collections with state or local government reservations in the event of special conditions of appreciation, and this, in addition to the fact that we have heard oral explanations, I must say, is not a sufficient guarantee that this will never be abused once. What do I mean? I'll give you a specific example. Over the past few years, I've been talking about a year or two, with the help of the nation's son-in-law, Mr. Ghaith Pharaon has been shopping from very large former castles. These castles are in pretty bad shape. Now, in the current tax laws, you have also provided for the possibility of a significant tax relief of up to a billion-dollar magnitude, if any, if someone were to renovate such a castle. So Ghaith Pharaon will surely have money now, he will be able to renovate such castles. Yeah, but when the castle renovation is done, you have to move in, and obviously, like everyone else, she likes beautiful, well, you should sort out these castles. Then will he be able to apply to you that, given the existence of certain circumstances requiring special appreciation, the Museum of Fine Arts would select a few, say, pictures of Durer, and so on? [[16.50]] What are these circumstances that require special appreciation? Poor man, no prints. Let's give him some pictures, see if he can forget about this eclipse. I think it is possible that your intention was originally good and noble, but the wording of the law in this form is not sufficient, it gives us the opportunity to abuse which we cannot support in any way. I would very much like you to help me to clarify with further legislative proposals that there will be no possibility of abuse. The fact that you will want to lay down any further detailed rules in a government decree is not enough guarantee for us, forgive me. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-11-22-140	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. An independent Member may now speak for the first time. I give the floor to Congressman Szabó Szabolcs. Here you go.
u2016-11-22-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, we discussed this at the committee meeting. There, János Halász said that it is somehow appropriate to settle the fate of the artifacts which, in the Second World War and in the Communist dictatorship, were illegally or under unclear circumstances, then let us put it this way, by stealing in Hungarian, as Mr. State Secretary said, I think we can use that term for him. Indeed, there were lawsuits, if the owner could prove this properly, and otherwise took the long and not cheap lawsuit, then he could proceed. The Herczog case may be more well known, but we know that the Sigray family and many others have tried to do so. Who did it and who didn't. Indeed, I say that the justification for what Mr Fisher has done at the committee meeting on behalf of the authors can be appreciated. I think, of course, that it is appropriate to be generous in this case to the state, if not otherwise, by giving the family a permanent loan of these artifacts. So you can acknowledge that the state can be so generous that you can acknowledge the activities that these families have done for the construction of the country, not least for the Hungarian cultural life, since we should not forget that these collections also included support for contemporary Hungarian art in Hungary. At least for a significant part of the time. The problem begins there, which I also raised at the committee meeting, as to whether there is a guarantee that it applies only to this, and this is not a general rule. I read it several times before, but Mr Fisherman said that, of course, it is a guarantee. We have read it many more times, and I can tell you honestly that we do not see the guarantee in it, and Mr Szabó also asked, because in fact the legislative amendment text says that this procedure can be applied in a particularly acceptable case, the detailed rules of which will be laid down in a regulation. From now on, I don't consider it a guarantee. Make no mistake, I think that there must be a guarantee in this somehow, because if we do not put this into it, then there is a right to ask these questions, which the Congresswoman has said. [[János Halász: They are not! Mrs. Loránt Violin: Yes!]] Therefore, I have tabled an amendment that would add a very simple and two solutions to this amendment. It would be written in writing that this could be applied when the state did not obtain the artifact with quasi-theft. I think that would be a guarantee. Obviously, I am not saying that this is the most perfect codification masterpiece we have added, it can still be worked on, but I just wanted to draw the attention of the Members of the Member and of the Government to at least one of the semi-phrases that will clarify that. Because if this is not included, then I think we will have reason to fear that it will not only be used in such cases, since it will be established later in a regulation, and that will be decided by the Minister in his own power. This is important, I think, because then this matter will be resolved in a reassuring way, and it is not that the state will be generous with these families along a political wiener. Thank you for listening.
u2016-11-22-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-22-143	Mr President, Thank you very much. Allow me to apply for a speech because the closing point will be presented by the Member, and I would like to add a few points to all three speeches and to clarify some more vague questions. The question often arises when a representative with a government function, in this case a minister, submits a proposal, why he does not make it as a minister and why he does so as a representative. Here, it is not negligible that Minister also leads the Restoration Committee, and in this capacity he has also encountered this problem. That is why you are not taking this as a minister, but as the head of the Restoration Committee, you have tabled this proposal as a representative. However, I would like to thank you for the fact that, as I see it, there is a consensus that there is a question that must be resolved by the current Hungarian State. Members are basically looking for the guarantee elements that guarantee that today's state-owned artifacts will not be misplaced, but will indeed be in the families who previously owned this right, and it is questionable or unclear under which circumstances they have become State-owned, at least they will have the opportunity to use it, to watch that painting where appropriate. But there are indeed many questions to be settled in the next period. It does not relate specifically to this issue, but it is not possible to ignore the fact that a significant proportion of the artifacts owned by the Hungarian State are being dusted in warehouses today, rather than, where appropriate, being displayed at their original location of discovery or actually being made available to the public. So more than 50 percent of the Hungarian state's art stock is in warehouses today. The debate that Congressman Józsa also partly mentioned about museums, for example, was also a debate when it was decided this spring that, for example, Esterházy treasures should be issued in Eszterháza, rather than in a warehouse in Budapest, where appropriate. This possibility should be opened to all artifacts which, in terms of their capacity, can be found or found in the original artifacts and presented to the general public. In the context of this debate, I would also like to point out to Mrs and to Mr President that Minister Lazarus wishes to show absolute openness in accepting the amendments, and he specifically indicated this. All decisions relating to subsequent placements are indeed regulated in a government decree, which must appear at the same time as the publication of the law. I think it is very important to draw the Parliament's attention to the fact that all decisions must be made in a completely transparent manner, so that it should be available on a public platform on what grounds and how state-owned artifacts have been made available to private owners. I am talking about a private owner who used to own it, and now he can only be a quasi-reliant or caregiver of these images. I would also like to respond to one or two other thoughts raised by the Member woman, not least by the side. One is the renovation of the castle. In many cases, we are talking about castles in respect of which I think there is a consensus in the Hungarian Parliament today that they are one of the national architectural treasures and are in such a state that the local governments or private owners there cannot renovate them. I do not find it problematic that the government launches a programme to protect these artifacts in the domain of built heritage. Of course, there can be no legal basis for anyone wanting to organise any exhibition for their own private purposes, so that he can obtain the right to acquire any state-owned art. If he wishes to do so, he must pass the same rules, the same steps as anyone who would like to have access to such public collections at some level, but then there must be the guarantee rules under which the condition is given in order to do so in the public interest rather than for private reasons. This is where the two questions are mixed, because now the bill discussed by Parliament is about what happens to the treatment of these paintings and art treasures where the loss of the family's former property has not been clarified. The other question is how and in what form artifacts owned by the Hungarian State can be produced. These are two completely separate questions. The debate you have said about real estate, I also believe, is a debate that has not yet been held by the Hungarian Parliament, and this may be justified in the future. [[17.00]] And to Mr Szabolcs Szabó, I would just like to confirm once again that we are open to discussing and discussing the amendments in substance. The Members of the Council and the Government will report to you on this matter. Mr President, thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-22-144	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs, Jobbik Group.
u2016-11-22-145	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In terms of monuments, I think it is very important to clarify once and for all that the Hungarian State wants to keep these properties in national property. Unfortunately, that's not the case at the moment. It's not like that! There is a list of monuments at the end of the national property law, but a significant part of it and a significant part of the buildings previously classified as monuments - grouped according to separate monument categories - are no longer national property, so it is neither state nor municipal, nor even religious property. I think we can't just ignore the fact that these otherwise extraordinary and unique treasures - the Turai Castle - can be acquired by a foreign owner or, where appropriate, by a non-transparent offshore company, and then do whatever it wants with it, or arrange it as it pleases. There are obviously certain rules and regulations, but, for example, how he will use it, how he will open it to the general public or not, we will not be able to regulate it, we will not be able to influence it. That's one of the problems. The other is that it is good that if you really believe that this is the only thing that I would like to use - as was stated in the oral explanation - this legislative pass, it should be included, and if there is openness, then I will initiate that only and exclusively under Article XX. The victims of our centuries-old drafts and their descendants should be the conditions requiring appreciation in which we allow them to borrow or exploit cultural values. I do not know if this is acceptable to Mr Secretary of State, but we would be very happy to have this debate. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-22-146	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr János Halász as rapporteur who wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-22-147	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Thank you very much for your opinions, Mr Szabó's thought-provoking and moderate approach. He asked, Mr President, why John Lazarus submitted it as a representative and why now. The Secretary of State has already answered that. Anyway, let's be clear, obviously, if you're a Secretary of State, Minister, but also a Member, you have the same right to submit motions as you or me. In addition, the fact that we have all discovered that we have tabled this motion together with János Lazarus, since we have dealt with these matters together in previous years. So it's not a coincidence at all. In addition, there is a practical reason, because this is not a major amendment, but it is obviously professional, but so [[Gábor Bányai sneezes.]] I'm sure we're telling the truth right now. [[Defiance. Intercoms from Jobs, among them: Are you sure? Defiance.]] - in front of the House, it can go practically and quickly. Why now? That's because we have a current case that we'd like to solve, and I'd be happy to share it with the congressman here after the meeting. I don't have the authority to name the people involved here in Parliament, but I do know a concrete matter that has been going on for a long time, and we're finally trying to solve it. We will solve this case in general, but we will also deal with that individual case. But obviously the amendment will not be created in the individual case, but in this system, as I have said, it will complete and complete, as the Secretary of State has also referred to. I hope that we will be able to get your support after this. In hearing the right-wing opinions, the congresswoman has now used the opposition communication turns. I understand, it's obviously mandatory for you at a time like this, but they don't belong here. I understand the position of the Small Fork. It doesn't belong here. We're talking about the cultural law. We could agree on a lot of things there, but let's talk about what we have right now. In your second speech, which you said, Mrs President, thank you very much, I think it is an approach that can certainly be incorporated into this amendment. Thank you very much for Szabolcs Szabó's opinion. We in the Cultural Committee were able to exchange ideas on this matter. I have not yet seen your amendment, but obviously there will be time to look at it, and we will examine it in substance. If this is the direction of amendment that you have mentioned, which you have also mentioned, and if it is a guarantee for you, I believe that it can be a guarantee, then it may well be incorporated into our proposal. The reason I can't say yes to this right now is because I say I haven't seen it in a textual way, but we are completely open to it, because it serves exactly the same purpose that we had in mind when we presented the law, and that means exactly what you said. I hope we can keep going this way. Thank you very much for what has been said in this debate, and thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-22-148	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the bill on the protection of certain health and self-help services will follow until closure. Proposal submitted by representatives of Attila Gelencsér and Dénes Galambos, Fidesz T/12927. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Attila Gelencsér, the author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-22-149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The overall objective of the bill on the protection of certain health and self-help services is to strengthen public confidence in self-care solutions by means of regulation. Its direct purpose is to develop voluntary self-help fund services. As an introduction, I would like to say a few words about historical history. In Hungary, the creation of social security and the preservation of health are traditionally considered among the primary public functions. At the same time, one of the most important social goals in Hungary today is that a wider crowd of people understand that the individual's well-being, the individual's quality of life, is also the responsibility of the individual. It is brave to say that encouraging the willingness to self-care by government means is an objective that can be found among the objectives of all parliamentary parties regardless of ideological orientation. I am convinced that this is one of the regulatory areas where there can be broad consensus on the common interest. As is well known to my fellow Members, self-care, the first forms of self-help were created in parallel with industrialisation, workers' organisation, trade unions, and intertwined with them in various legal and organisational forms. So the institutions of self-care have historically preceded the provision of the state, but in the communist and socialist sphere, in addition to the predominance of state involvement, these organizations are more of a vegetable than a waste. Self-help organisations have typically remained in the interests of the industries and companies that employ workers in a mass, with only marginal functions. After the change of regime, the revival of self-help also began thanks to the great employers, but self-care as a personal responsibility, as they say, did not go to the public. In the absence of uniform rules, a number of smaller or larger organisations have set themselves the goal of supporting members or other defined categories of rights and helping them in critical situations. These organisations typically developed their operational models and service palettes in a closed circle along local or employer's interests, based on specific features. [[17.10]] However, in the area of self-care, these organisations do not offer or offer a general solution. Due to the obvious social pressure, in 1993, the law on voluntary mutual insurance funds, in short Öpt. a new form of operation to protect the interests of rightholders and those in need, the establishment of a voluntary mutual fund, was adopted. The Öpt. Introduction by the EESC on Social Security: strengthening social security is an urgent social interest. It is essential to build a social market economy on the basis of the principles of social security reconstruction, solidarity, systemicity, predictability and volunteering. The voluntary mutual insurance funds will provide a new institutional form of self-care, and will help the development of the Hungarian capital market by expanding the long-term investment resources. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The Öpt. However, its entry into force did not mean that associations or other self-help organisations that had been established to date were subject to uniform rules. The purpose of the law was specifically to open up new savings opportunities, which also meet strict financial market requirements, and to ensure that the current government can encourage employers and workers to take care of themselves with tax and contribution rules. Following the entry into force of the Act, the voluntary finance sector developed at a relatively rapid pace and has now become a material player in the financial services market. The health and voluntary pension fund allowance has become one of the basic elements of the cafeteria system generally used by employers. This has made the development of the voluntary finance sector a real success story. This is also confirmed by the latest disclosure by the Hungarian National Bank in 2016, according to which the number of members of the voluntary pension funds was 1 146 758 and the assets amounted to HUF 1190 billion, almost 60 percent of which are in Hungarian sovereign debt. The number of self-help and health institutions is also significant, 1 101 414 people, and the wealth is 59 billion. So this is also a significant asset. Health institutions have practically built the health card acceptance system on the entire pharmacy network of the country, which makes savings significantly more convenient, and cashier membership has accepted and learned to use the card. In addition, health institutions have an important role to play in organizing private medical services, but indirectly they also contribute significantly to the whitening of the service market, for example by improving online appointments or promoting cash settlement needs. We can safely say that it is because of the health institutions that it is now natural to ask the doctor for an invoice. I am convinced that, in the context of the development of health insurance services, we can hope for further indirect social benefits, such as the processing of anonymous health data for research purposes or the development of systems capable of evaluating private health service providers, such as online solutions, applications or the reduction of waiting lists that are suitable for patient satisfaction feedback. However, it makes me wonder that the Öpt. The self-help cashier's form did not have any breakthroughs among the types of cashier defined by him. It is a fact that voluntary self-help funds have not been able to recruit significant members despite the fact that the social need for services has clearly been present in recent decades. One explanation of this may be that these are social services, benefits, such as maternity, sickness and funeral benefits, which are provided to those in need as a crisis or as a donation through long-standing associations or charities. Another possible explanation is that some of the needs are covered by risk insurance, such as relatively low-cost, life and accident insurance, or funeral insurance, for example. It has made a spectacular change, so the Öpt shows the question from another aspect. The 2015 amendment, which allowed health institutions to continue to act as self-help and health institutions. In practice, this means that cashier members can use the services specified for both types of cashier at the expense of their individual accounts. It seems that with this technically simple modification, we have finally managed to remove the system from the deadlock. Because both large cash registers and most small cash registers made use of the legal opportunity almost immediately and broadened their scope of service. Let's see why a simple amendment could have been so effective. On the one hand, it is logical that self-help services should be directed towards a strictly regulated and controlled finance sector from a consumer point of view. On the other hand, it is obvious that self - care and willingness to be a member cannot be expected to bear double costs, i.e. to have a member in two cash registers. It is also important that it is more difficult to save in separate pockets for financial difficulties and crisis situations for various reasons. It is more manageable for the individual, it is easier to choose a uniform solution in case of unexpected problems or difficulties. The health fund, extended with self-help services, collects financial savings for its members, who can also cover a number of social family expenditures with this money. Membership payments are granted by the State in the form of tax incentives, while the rules of use are regulated in detail. The unused money produces interest-free returns, and the amount saved in the individual account can be inherited tax-free. As with other voluntary cash registers, self-help services are covered by the rules on employer's contribution to a reduced public space. The possibility of using the saved money has become truly diverse: delivery, adoption services, children's, children's supplement, school support, welfare support for large families, job search aid, fire and battery damage, impaired work, infant and baby care products, optical products, medicines, medical aids, sickness allowance, support for blind persons, life-saving tools, lifestyle improvement services or even home loan repayment. It is therefore clear that the self-help and health insurance scheme is a form of developing self-care, which is well-known to the general public, beneficial from the financial side and closely supervised by the National Bank. After a brief presentation of the history and the operational environment and the vision of the future, I am changing to the essence of this bill. We need to see that the forms of operation of self-help organisations are very diverse. In addition to successful and strictly controlled voluntary funds, numerous small associations and foundations and other civil society organisations provide social assistance in cash or in kind. They have survived and their own traditions include self-help associations linked to a large employer or industry or profession, where membership is linked to the organization personal, trusting, almost family-like. [[17.20]] Self-help businesses and self-help and insurance associations can also operate a profile. This is a specific institutional form that combines the financial institutions and the classic association operating model within its organisational framework. You might even say that the insurance company also maintains a quasi-insurance company, since self-help services that are not covered by insurance are provided on the basis of the classic insurance policy, on a solidarity basis. This model exists despite the fact that the services included in it can be matched to the self-help services listed and regulated in Öpt., as amended in 2015. When we look at the operational structure, we see that the structure and the basis for the decision-making mechanism are the same. There is registered individual membership, in the case of a large number of memberships there is member representation, there is an elected management body, there is a statute, which also settles services and entitlements, there is management. There is a significant difference between the two forms of operation that, in the form of an association, the worker is not entitled to a tax refund on his payments. The other difference is that there is no regulated form of employer support, cafeteria. But the substantial difference is in individual account management and operational control, and this is where the problem is and the risk is. The self-help associations register the paid membership fee, but the payments are not made to individual accounts, but they typically provide their services on the basis of common risk-taking principles, on a solidarity basis. Therefore, there is a significant difference that these organisations also offer financial services without the obligation to manage financial risk, to provide a reserve and without regulating the cost ratio that can be used for operation. Don't get me wrong, I'm not saying that the rights of membership in self-help associations are necessarily or generally violated, as there is no targeted survey or analysis of this, nor do we have any specific comparative data, at least none of which we have been able to find. I would just like to draw attention to the parallel existence of strictly regulated and less regulated forms of self-help organisations. I also agree that the existence of incentives for self-care, including self-organization, is useful and should be supported. I accept that, as long as we talk about a small organisation, a relatively closed community, membership itself can be sufficient guarantee of proper functioning. In fact, I am referring to the ability to enforce democratic operating rules and to the rights of membership enshrined in the Civil Code and the Associations Act. However, in the case of larger organisations, in particular in special cases where the authorisation for the activity of an insurance company providing self-help services is withdrawn by the supervisory authority of the MNB, we should already be at risk. The legislator therefore has a responsibility to protect the rights of membership. As long as the self-help association operates as an insurance undertaking, it is under continuous supervision and has a professional working organisation, it is subject to the strict conditions generally applicable to insurance undertakings. These include, for example, the so-called mandatory posts that may be filled with a separate authorisation from the National Bank, such as the leading actuary, senior legal counsel, senior risk manager and compliance manager, such as data protection and IT security conditions or customer service conditions, or complaint handling requirements, or regular reporting obligations. Such obligations shall be terminated upon withdrawal of the authorisation to act. With this, the risk exposure of membership is necessarily much higher than that of the organisation acting as a self-help cashier. In view of this, it can be seen that it is appropriate, and even justified, by legislative means, to settle the further fate of self-help and insurance associations in the event of the cessation of insurance activities. The draft law is 1. Article 4 of the Act provides for a reasonable solution and a maximum safeguard of the interests of members. The bill is the Öpt. complements its rules by making the self-help association's health and self-help staff transferable to the health and self-help voluntary fund under the secondment of the supervisory commissioner. This means that the usual services are available for membership with unchanged content, but can be used under the supervision of the MNB within the chosen voluntary fund. From a consumer point of view, it is also beneficial that the member's staff transferred to the voluntary cash register is, of course, entitled without limitation to use the other services provided by the receiving cashier, and to enjoy the rights guaranteed by the law, and to participate in shaping the organization and management of the cashier. The draft shall also settle the rules for the execution of the transfer of stocks, such as the range of eligible cashiers, the content of the invitation to tender and the procedural deadlines. In order to ensure the continuous and smooth delivery of the transfer of stocks to the Member States concerned, in view of consumer protection aspects, including the specific nature of the self-help service that it will not be delayed, the proposal sets a deadline of 30 plus 15 days. In addition to the consumer protection objective presented so far, the aim of this bill is also to create an additional opportunity and provide a perspective for the financial institutions to make progress. The draft law 3. However, it is of paramount importance that it is used to regulate the further expansion and fine-tuning of the service palette for the self-help services of voluntary cash registers. The aim is to allow voluntary fund instruments to be expanded with social institutions with their own reservations under the terms laid down in the Government Decree. Ladies and gentlemen, I recommend the adoption of the law. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-11-22-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Agnes Hornung, who wishes to speak on behalf of the government. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2016-11-22-151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I think Congressman told me everything about the proposal. I would just like to briefly state that we consider this proposal to be acceptable on the part of the government. This amendment ensures the long-term sustainability of the self-help activities of mixed-activity insurance companies by ensuring the transfer of the self-help staff to the appropriate feet of health and self-help funds. With this transfer, this activity will also be under the control of the National Bank, as Mr President has explained. Therefore, citizens who are concerned can continue to enjoy the services of the voluntary self-help insurance fund in their subsidiary activities even after any withdrawal of a supervisory authorisation. That is why we support the proposal. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Mónika Dunai applauds.]]
u2016-11-22-152	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Bányai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-22-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We all know that situations can arise regardless of age, which can result in significant costs that can undermine the existence of a family, family or family. In case of trouble, it doesn't matter what you have or who you touch, if you have a spare, if you have help, if you can expect it. Of course, to address the dangers and risks to individuals and families, market insurers have multiplied and developed a variety of products. But I think it is important to point out that insurance coverage in Hungary is still not close to the European level. In Hungary, too, it is obvious that, in addition to the public safety net, self-care is the solution to consciously shaping our future and reducing the financial vulnerability resulting from unexpected situations. Anyone who has savings, emergency reserves, insurance, voluntary cash account can easily bear unexpected or tragic events in his financial situation. On the basis of improved statistics, it seems clear that the need for pension savings in Hungary is being seen and recognised by more and more people. Experience at the health fund shows that public awareness is also increasing in preparing for health expenditure. In these two main areas, systemic organisation and institutional security are guaranteed under the authority of the Hungarian National Bank. [[17 .30]] On the other hand, in the field of self-help, service institutions and organisations are as diverse and diverse as the problems themselves that need to be addressed. However, differences are not problem-specific, as all forms of financial benefits or aid are provided for the financial crisis. It is well known that self-help services are cheap, modest forms of self-care, to which the widest range of society can access. There is no question that this should be promoted and supported. We see that the recently introduced voluntary cash register amendment has opened the door to development by allowing health institutions to provide self-help services. Success is clear. Thanks to the efforts, more and more people realize their own responsibilities, and at the same time their potential. Our responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, is to give self-care an effective and secure legal framework. I believe that we can only move forward on this very important social issue if efforts to encourage self-care, improve financial awareness, and improve financial culture are accompanied by a safer financial services sector. Think back to the period of Balliberal governance, when the worsening economic situation in the country and the booming rise in consumer perception have led to the massive indebtedness of the broad sections of society. Analyzing this period, we can already see clearly that irresponsibleness was the key issue in the process. Without dissecting the issue of government and individual responsibility in detail, we can conclude that the freedom of the market economy has been unprepared for the very broad sections of the population without financial knowledge, family and personal experience. For example, I refer to the latest Hungarian disaster, to the victims of foreign exchange loans, or to those who did not sign up for pension rights, who had black employees, and they could still list this line. Surely we all agree that any form of self-care should be supported. But we can't lose sight of the lesson of the Quaestor scandal, for example. It is not enough to encourage the public to have foresight, to save, to think about the future. All of this becomes discredited, it is useless if there are any abuses or errors that result in the mass loss of the hard-compressed money by the Hungarian people. Trust in institutions and the operational security of institutions are obviously interrelated factors, but they are also key issues individually. The aim of the bill is to ensure that the members of the associations providing health or self-help services, especially in relation to the official measure concerning the association's licence to carry out their activities, are subject to all the guarantee conditions which have been granted by the National Bank of Hungary under the supervisory authority of the National Bank of Hungary in respect of health and self-help funds. In my view, the bill should be supported from both a professional and a consumer point of view. I'm asking for your support. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-11-22-154	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Józsa, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2016-11-22-155	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The government representatives have read really nice papers, and I have really enjoyed listening to the professional context. That's right. It just occurred to me that a few years ago, when the three thousand billion of the private pension fund was canceled, where were these beautiful thoughts of solidarity, where they had disappeared and why significant funds could be used for self-care. [[Dr. Péter Hoppál: Zero percent interest in 20 years! Self-care in a socialist way!]] The purpose of this bill - if we understand the approach here well, because we mean the theoretical introduction, it is really eligible, it has a tradition of more than 100 years in Hungary as well. The purpose of the present proposal, as stated in the professional supplement, is that if, as the Secretary of State said, in the case of a mixed-activity association, the supervision of a mutual insurance and self-help association withdraws the authorisation for insurance activities under a supervision measure, the other part of the activity, the association, as a self-help association, may not function further under this regulation, but this new regulation will be necessary in order to transfer its activities to a health and self-help fund now subject to supervision. Professionally, this idea is probably flawless - just what is behind it? Here, on the basis of certain press reports, the proposal, although it does not clearly refer to it, would also like to settle the situation of members of the Dimension Mutual Insurance Association with this proposal. According to the known case, the association's insurance license was withdrawn by the Hungarian National Bank this spring - or could be said to be insurance supervision - on the grounds that their capital situation is not stable enough. This was protested by the association that the self-help part would be impossible in the event of such a withdrawal. Customers of the organization, rather than members of the association, are mainly telekomists or extelekom workers, who have received part of their wages as cafeteria into their account at the called Dimension Association, which many still believe is a voluntary pension fund product. Here I agree with Mr Bányai that financial awareness needs to be improved, because people do not feel these subtle differences in professionalism, which, in view of their legal possibilities, have significant differences. So many people thought it was a voluntary pension fund product, but the reality is much more complicated than that. In recent years, due to the deteriorating nature of the challenges related to its traction product and its relationship with Telekom, or simply due to the financial crisis, the fee income of the Dimension Association has been steadily reduced, but this trend has been seen throughout the sector. Overall, the fate of some HUF 53 billion is questionable, but according to the information, there is no threat of insolvency. The government announced in May that they would settle the situation of the Dimension Association and its members by amending the law. This may or may not have been possible until mid-November, but we may have a bill like this before us, and this is what they want to find a solution to. I would like you to confirm that, because we have a slightly different attitude, if you only think about a bill in general, or you have seen that the problem of the members of the Dimension Association in particular can be resolved with this amendment. In view of this fact, since the authors have not really explained what the exact reason for proposing such a proposal is, in addition to general security, whether it is the Dimension Association, and this is indeed a solution that coincides with or sooths them with the request of the members; in the case of a positive response which is already likely to be supported by certain developments, on a professional basis, especially after such nice theoretical, thesis level introductions. [[17.40]] However, it would be good to know whether this will meet with the ideas of those concerned, their reassuring opinions. However, in the end, after the positive sentences, I would return to the fact that it would be good for the majority of the government to exercise criticism of the disappearance of the HUF 3000 billion fortune and to compensate those involved in this matter. Because when they announced that they were going to save the private pension fund, they made a concrete promise that everyone would be given a name, how much money they had registered, and that it wouldn't be lost, but somehow it hasn't happened since. In the case of individual private pension payments in the legal state - even if this is the case in which the supervision of the Hungarian National Bank is strict in the case of such a self-help cashier, such an association - the state of law security requires the government to settle this subsequently. All of their statements are about the sound state of the budget, so please take this question and address the private pension fund problem in a fair and reassuring way. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-11-22-156	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-11-22-157	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear rapporteur, Mr Attila Gelencsér, I could join the previous solo in hearing a very serious historical overview from you in your expo, but from the 21-minute speech, only two or three minutes related to this specific law. Here, too, the concrete example of which this bill has been drafted would help a great deal in interpreting and judging their bill. In addition to the historical overview of what lies ahead, it is only because, if the insurance licence is suspended, the activity and the members' assets accumulated so far must be transferred to a health and self-help fund, but, as you have presented to us with this historical overview, in the absence of a specific example, we might think that this could be a rather serious questioning of the association law, where appropriate, a harsh limitation if we do not know what is behind this proposal or its background. 'Cause I'm sorry, but unfortunately, there are several examples, just in the case of the Fidesz administration, which may raise the question of arbitrary exercise of rights, and in this case there is a certain kind of vulnerability to the wealth accumulated by members and members. So it would be good for you to confirm that this has a specific problem, what it is, and how this law would solve it. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-22-158	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I ask whether one of my fellow Members wishes to speak within the framework of this agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed and I give the floor to Mr Attila Gelencsér as rapporteur, who wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-22-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for your speeches, in which I felt the responsibility. I could read from your words that they felt the problem. In this regard, of course, the specificity was rightly called upon by the author. Yes, Congressman Józsa, the Dimension is at least one of the associations in which there is a serious threat. And before the next Quaestor scandal came under the name of Dimension scandal, we wanted to settle this. As opponents, you obviously have every right to be accountable to the specifics, but if this law did not settle this situation now, you would have had every right to ask why we did nothing. Well, what we're doing now is to prevent trouble so that if it didn't work out in earlier times, we can do it now. There are billions of forints involved here, and if there is a problem, those billions of forints of wealth could become the assets of the management that bankrupted the association again. The point is obvious: just as we are interested in private pension funds, neither in management, ownership or banks, but in membership, the same is the case here. So here's the thing, Congressman Józsa, is that with a vigour I'm jumping to private pension funds, it was a very socialist way of taking care of myself. [[Dr. István Józsa: No, capitalist!]] No, it is a socialist way, given that most of the private pension funds that started in 1997 rewarded pension fund membership with a return of zero. Let's just say that I can only congratulate you on the crocodile tears of a socially sensitive party. You know it, I know it, everyone who sits here, and now the whole country knows what the pension funds were all about. The state pension fund, which establishes a pension, pays a pension, i.e. has done much more work, has worked at a fifth price. The fact is, therefore, that in private pension funds costs, including wages and other services, were five to six times higher than the state fund. Well, there's people's returns, by the way, that people didn't get. And you must remember that, at that time, several parties in this House were pushing hard to see if there was any connection between the five-fold cost and those of the first socialist government after the regime change, because the excessive cost was strange and that people had suffered ill. That is why I say that this is a typical socialist self-care, management, banks and ownership benefit, and the members get a zero-percent return. I mean, I'd like to say that this was a bad example. [[Dr. István Józsa: Where is the fortune?]] The essence of the matter - and I felt that Jobbik had moved in that direction, beyond asking for a specific example; yes, there is a specific example, by the way, on the previous agenda János Halász said that we know concrete examples, but this is also a general general solution to these kinds of matters - is that I can answer about the same thing that my fellow Member said earlier. I do not think that this would limit the right of association, because it is only about ensuring that everyone knows their money is safe. Within that, operating conditions and everything else remain with the association, I do not think that this is a problem. Security of the rule of law - my Socialist colleague asked me this - in this area too, we do not have to worry about payments for otherwise very broad membership or a large number of memberships. I would therefore like to thank Mr Bányai for his sentences on the need for a systemic solution. Moreover, this law can also provide a solution to the diverse potential problems - which we may not know today because they have not yet occurred. As he said, which was a bit hairy for my speech, the left was about to show itself, saying irresponsibleness as a key word. I would like to say that in our case, however, I would like to emphasise the opposite, and in this case also responsibility, responsibility for members, is the key word. We want awareness and credibility at the same time, while the Quaestor and the currency-loaning case and much more discourages people from taking care of themselves. We expect people to be able to take care of themselves, while all these bad stories make self-care untrue. The point is, therefore, it was because, Madam Congresswoman, my introduction is so long that it can be felt that self-care is not the problem. That's why there was a historical overview of it, we're happy about it, we're supporting it, and so on. Only by destroying the credibility of the institution of self-care; this is what the law wants to settle. I'm honored by your attention. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-11-22-160	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, It follows that the 2015 LXXV on the free municipal ownership of certain state-owned assets for the purpose of performing the tasks of county libraries and county-owned urban museums. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Presentation submitted by the representatives of Sándor Hadházy, László B. Nagy, János Bencsik, Csaba Hende, Sándor Fidesz and Szabó, MSZP T/12910. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. [[17.50]] First, I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Hadházy, the author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-22-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In 2015, the National Assembly adopted a law on the transfer of certain state-owned assets to free municipal property for the purpose of county libraries and county-wide urban museums. As a result, county museums and county libraries acquired property and their movable property without any special contract by the municipalities, thereby helping them to perform mandatory tasks more effectively and effectively. It follows from the above that the purpose of the Act on Ownership was to facilitate the more efficient performance of the compulsory task by transferring the property of the county-wide urban museums and the county libraries into the property of the maintenance municipalities. Ownership has facilitated the planning of renovation and expansion of buildings and the use of tendering resources. When preparing the Act on Ownership, the municipalities could send and send to the Ministry of Human Resources and the Ministry of National Development a list of the properties used by the institutions, which were also included in their articles of incorporation, which they wanted to take into municipal ownership. The list of properties annexed to the Act was drawn up on the basis of municipal requirements, with the agreement and cooperation of the Association of City Rights, the Ministry of National Development and the Ministry of Human Resources, and the bill was submitted to Parliament as an independent motion. Following the entry into force of the Act on Ownership, several municipalities indicated their intention to take ownership of the property intended to supplement the Act. The bill we have just discussed, presented with several fellow Members, aims at supplementing the list of properties in the Annex to the Act on Ownership, and proposes free ownership of property for the municipality of the town of Szeged, the municipality of Tata, the municipality of Szombathely County and the municipality of Szentendre City. Allow me to highlight the proposal for a transfer to Szentendre from these transfers, in view of my constituency. The municipality of Szentendre, which, following the entry into force of the Law on Local Government Ownership, initiated the acquisition of municipal property belonging to the Pest County Library and the Ferenczy Museum. The municipality of Szentendre did not consider it timely to change the state ownership of property used by the Ferenczy Museum and the Pest County Library at the time of the creation of the Act on Ownership. However, after the adoption and entry into force of the law, it indicated its intention to take the property into municipal ownership. The representative body of the municipality of Szentendre has initiated ownership in order to carry out the public task it provides more effectively, given that the listed properties serve directly to carry out the tasks of the county library and county-wide city museum, and that ownership would improve the efficiency of the provision of tasks and asset management. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the adoption of a proposal supported or requested by the municipality. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-11-22-162	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Peter Hoppál, Secretary of State, who wishes to speak on behalf of the government. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-11-22-163	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, The maintenance circle of rural public collections and their background in public and municipal funding over the past decades, but I can tell you that perhaps in the past half century there has been a very significant change. This sphere has been through a lot of changes. In fact, the representation of local cultural interests has increased over the past period and its responsibilities have increased in the previous maintenance environment. We are well aware that the law referred to by the Member has made it possible, as the last step in the transformation of public collections, from 2015 onwards, that former state-owned buildings, real estate and property belonging to them could now be owned by the municipalities. Overall, the thus created real estate register, the real estate property in the Annex to the Act, covers 152 real estate properties. It is quite an amazing weight and number to say; so the state has actually helped municipalities with this kind of wealth in the last year. We can say that the preparation of the Act on Ownership was exemplary, with the involvement of all professional organisations and civil society organisations with national scope, a list of properties that could only be included in the properties used by the institutions and which were also included in their statutes. Therefore, it was not possible to ask for the benefits and help of l. art pour l. art. Only strict conditions could prevent the transfer of property from taking place under the scope of the law. The municipal needs were compiled by the Ministry of Human Resources with the help of the County City Association and the Ministry of National Development. The county-wide urban museums, which are involved in this area, and by handing the property of the county libraries into the property of the maintenance municipalities, we have thus helped to carry out the mandatory task more effectively with this law. This made it easier to plan the renovation and expansion of buildings and to use the sources of tender. For this reason, the Secretary of State responsible for culture has largely supported the creation of this law last year. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Our experience has shown over the past year that there has been a facilitating circumstance for the settlement of ownership in this direction and, in fact, the creation of the last phase of the transformation of these public collections. The state has contributed a spectacular gesture to the wider dissemination of cultural values and the possibility of access. [[18.00]] However, we are well aware that the properties received can only be used by the municipalities for cultural purposes and cannot be alienated, this should be recorded in the appropriate places, this decision should be entered in the real estate register. It is clear that there are settlements that, after the law came into force, considered the positive effects of the law, rethought the restructuring of the regulation on the properties of the institutions operating in their own reservations, and in this sense it was in this sense that, as we have heard, the municipality of the town of Szeged, the municipality of Tata, the municipality of Szentendre, the municipality of the town of Szombathely county, would require new properties to be transferred from state ownership to municipal property. I have to mention that, in the case of a city with county rights in Szeged, five properties were taken over from state property earlier, so that at the time of the entry into force of the law, new buildings in the use of the Móra Ferenc Museum will be introduced into this circle. We have already heard the Szentendre aspects from the congressman. The municipality of Tata submitted this request in nature to a significant part of the castle moats surrounding the castle and will use it in the public service of the Kuny Domokos Museum. In fact, the municipality of Szombathely County wishes to add a garage in the use of the Berzsenyi Dániel Library to the property elements already transferred. This is the way in which the package of amendments complements the real estate assets in the Annex that has been set up so far. In addition to the amendment of the law, Magyar Nemzeti Vagyonkezelő Zrt. has examined the proposal in order to establish a uniform legal background, and has made a declaration that there is no other practical solution for the transfer of this property than the amendment of the law. Moreover, the transfer is carried out by virtue of the law, as was the case with the property that was transferred under the law in 2015, and the actual transfer-acceptance ceremony does not take place, so there is no formal procedure, since the properties concerned are already in the possession of the prospective owners, in Hungarian: it is a legal procedure. The bill therefore fully complies with our legal and museum and library policy ideas on the basis of our professional criteria and political aspects, and so the government supports the proposal. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-11-22-164	Good evening and welcome. We will continue to work with the keynote speeches. The first will be Mrs Mónika Dunai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2016-11-22-165	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The Fidesz Group supports the bill submitted. If we recall - but this was also described in detail by my fellow Member, Mr Sándor Hadházy, and also by my colleague Sándor Hadházy - at the time of the adoption of the 2015 Act, the property belonging to the county-wide urban museums and the county libraries and the movable property belonging to it became the property of the municipalities without any special contract. At the time - and this is the case today, we believe - the law on ownership was to facilitate the more efficient performance of the compulsory task of the county-wide urban museums and the county libraries by giving ownership to the maintenance authorities. Ownership has facilitated the planning of renovation and expansion of buildings and the use of tendering resources. Following the entry into force of the Act on Ownership, several municipalities indicated their intention to acquire real estate to supplement the Act. Indeed, four municipalities will acquire ownership of the amendment of this law for such purposes for fixed purposes. My fellow Member, Mr Sándor Hadházy, Member of Parliament of the region, has already explained the Szentendre aspects in detail in relation to his constituency, so I would just like to add a few points about the rest. In addition to Szentendre, Szeged, Tata and Szombathely, we supplement the law with the transfer of property to support cultural tasks. Prometheus Home is a state-owned property currently used by the Móra Ferenc Museum and managed by the municipality of Szeged county. By amending the Annex to the Act, this property is owned by the municipality of Szeged County. The municipality of Tata indicated in August 2016 the intention of the property number 1873 of Tata, which in nature is a significant part of the castle moat surrounding the castle, to become a municipal property, given that the castle is owned by a municipality from 1 July 2015 and that the castles form an integral part of the castle. We therefore consider the proposal submitted to be justified. The municipality of Szombathely, a town with county rights, intends to own 133 square meters of property with the localization number Szombathely 6107/2 and the name of the rented garage, which is used for library purposes. We use the Berzsenyi Dániel Library. Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz fraction therefore supports the proposal submitted and asks the Parliament, with its support, to contribute to the local government ownership of these properties. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-22-166	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Sándor Szabó, head speaker of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2016-11-22-167	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Indeed, much has been said. In 2012, according to the law on museums, libraries and public education, a strange situation arose: they were in asset management, trust rights were granted by the institutions, a significant part of the property was transferred to the municipalities, but the property itself remained with the State. It was clear that this three-party scheme could not work very well, so the law was quite rightly amended last year, according to which precisely what my fellow Members have said, because of the more efficient operation and the possibilities of applications, local authorities can also get real estate from the state, so that these institutions can operate. This was modified by last year's law, and in the Annex to the Act, we had to collect the properties that the municipalities obviously required for the performance of the task in relation to museums, libraries and public cultural institutions. It has already been said on the specific item on the agenda, but let me say that, as a representative of Szeged and as a member of the meeting, we are talking about the Museum of Ferenc Móra, Budapest, Munkás utca 3/A III. There is a property under the second floor, which is actually called Prometheus Home, and the museum uses it, has used it before, is in the management of the city's assets, there the employees carry out scientific research work, and, in this sense, according to the law on library and public education, it meets the condition that the municipality can obtain this property. So, in this sense, this proposal should be fully supported. However, let me also say a little bit that this bill was here before us two weeks ago, then in the Legislative Committee the Socialist Group made this amendment in the case of Szeged, and for some reason you were not able to support it, although it contains a word for word what is currently in this law, and even after that, I have lived with a motion from individual representatives in this regard, specifically regarding the case of Szeged. [[18.10]] But, you know, what I'm used to saying is, this case is important to me, and I'm not gonna make a prestige question about it if I have to join the amendment tabled by the Fidesz Members. If the city of Szeged and the Móra Ferenc Museum have benefited in this respect, I think as an individual representative I have done what the voters and our institutions expect of me. So I support the proposal. Thank you.
u2016-11-22-168	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs is the lead speaker of Jobbik.
u2016-11-22-169	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear tableds, We support this law, just like in 2015, as we did a month ago, and that if you bring it in again and expand the list, we will still support it. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-22-170	Thank you very much. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. As long as we live, we hope to ask, in the spirit of a well-known statement, that you are now two minutes or as a normal speech. [[Dunai Mónika: Normal.]] As a normal speech, hope lasts. Here you go.
u2016-11-22-171	Thank you very much. I would like to reassure Mr President that I do not want to be two minutes old and even normal, so I would just like to say this once. My fellow Member, Sándor Szabó, mentioned the amendment to the same law on a similar subject a few weeks ago. In the Legislative Committee, he suggested that Socialist Members also proposed amendments to the same Szeged-related property. I would like to tell this House, for information, that I was present and spoke to him at the legislative committee meeting. The fact then was that on the day before the Legislative Committee meeting, it was only relatively late that this amendment came to the table of the committee and Parliament, so that no documents were available to us, the members of the committee at that time. It's just, although politicians usually question credibility about each other, I have to say that in this case, you obviously wouldn't have accepted government representatives simply asking for state property to be declared municipal property. I asked, and Mr Palkovics, State Secretary, confirmed at the committee meeting that we did not have any objections to the amendment raised at the time, and asked that the Secretary of State or Members should collect these needs and, as soon as possible, be placed on our table as an independent motion, not as a relatively late amendment of the then. I raised this at the time, and I was pleased to see that this package of proposals was collected shortly, perhaps a week, and was also tabled by my fellow Members, and the matter that my fellow Member, Sándor Szabó, said, could now be implemented. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-11-22-172	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone wants to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I am asking Congressman Hadházy as rapporteur. Here, you have the floor, respond.
u2016-11-22-173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would also like to thank and confirm the supporting contributions that my colleague Mónika Dunai has just said. When that amendment was before the National Assembly and was discussed by the Legislative Committee, then the proposal that I had tabled had already been run and a number of discussions had to be held in order to make this proposal sufficiently prepared, including the EMMI and the National Trust Office, because it was a transfer of assets. This had a run-through, and it was done in about a month and a half, and when they were finished, there was an opportunity to make a bill out of it. I am glad that this was open and that others could join him, and I trust that this circle may be finally concluded. Although I also share the words or opinions of my fellow Member, it is possible that further proposals may be made here, since local authorities may be able to present additional needs by gathering experience. I believe that both the government and Parliament will be open to receiving these proposals. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-22-174	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, MEP István Szávay, representative of Jobbik, notary of the National Assembly, asked for a speech: you were Hungarian, so! Remember the victims of the Transcarpathians of Stalin terror. It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-11-22-175	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Guests! 72 years ago, on November 18, 1944, the first columns of marched through Munkács to the collection camp in Solyva. In the next few days, the population of almost all Hungarian and German men occupied by the Red hordes moved along in the next few days towards the collection camp called Auschwitz, the Golgota of the Hungarians, by the locals. Today we remember them, our tens of thousands of Hungarian brothers and fellow Germans, who were brutally separated from their loved ones and far from their homes by the inhuman Stalinist dictatorship to humiliate, break and eventually destroy most of them. Article 4 Ukrainian Front occupied Transcarpathia in October 1944, and gave the order to gather the male population of the age of war among his first actions. Among them, Slovak and Ruthenian citizens were released after registration, but there was no escape for native Hungarians and Germans. Although the measure originally concerned only the male population between 18 and 50 years of age, the Soviet NKVDs interpreted the order widely and also carried away 13-year-old children and men of well over 60 years of age to meet the quota from above as soon as possible. During registration, all their personal documents were taken away, and in the cold of minus 20 degrees they were launched on foot to Solyva, the central assembly camp. They thought they were going for a three-day job, a Malenki robot. This fate was shared, by the way, by the way, by several male members of my wife's family. Ladies and gentlemen, The vast majority of those who were taken were completely innocent civilians; peaceful peasants, teachers who taught and taught future generations, or workers who experienced all the deprivation of the world war. Their sin was merely that the Lord God created them to be what they were. It was revenge, bloody revenge against all Hungarian and Germans, who were called collective sinners by Soviet communism allied with the United States of America, ignoring all human and civil rights proclaimed by him and his allies. There was vengeance on those Hungarian soldiers who bravely and unbreakablely held the lines of the Eastern Carpathians, and revenge on those who had never held a weapon in their lives. Revenge on women and men, revenge on children and the elderly. In the words of Márai: You were Hungarian, that's why, until the camp existed, until April 1945, the Soviet authorities crowded 35-40,000 people in Solyván, who were consciously malnourished because they were so afraid of their escape. Their ranks were thus decimated by long-forgotten diseases in the bitter cold winter of 1944-45, so it is no wonder that one third of them, some 12,000 people, were not worth the spring of the following year. The survivors were launched by the Soviet authorities in February 1945, without proper equipment, in the snow and freezing of the Siberian mines, factories and construction sites. More than half of these 23-25 thousand people have disappeared in the Soviet army. [[18.20]] In 1994 the Solyva Memorial Park, which included the First World War Cemetery, opened its doors to cherish the memory of those who died in a hell of medieval circumstances; and in 2004 marble columns containing the names of the 12 thousand victims were also replaced. Thank you, therefore, to the Solyva Memorial Park Committee, which continues to care for the memorial park. The names of all the male members of a whole family, from grandfather to grandson, can often be read on the names drawn up per settlement. That is why it is important for the Ukrainian Parliament to put on its agenda and adopt a resolution that captures the memory of the innocent victims of Solyva. I hope that this will also be discussed at the meeting of the two prime ministers on 26 November. Ladies and gentlemen, In recent years Jobbik has attended the memorial service at the memorial park on every occasion, but this year we could not be there, so here in the church of the nation we remember the victims of that time. The purpose of the Communists was the same everywhere: to break the national power of Hungarians and thus to promote our membership into the great Soviet Empire. But let us say it proudly: this failed. It didn't work, because it didn't work, because we Hungarians stood up to the times of distress, as we did so many times in our history. It did not succeed, because there is still a Hungarian word and a Hungarian prayer in Transcarpathia. The blood of the martyrs has become a seed, although it has run out, but it has not broken, but this community has been strengthened in its faith and Hungarianism. Jobbik struggles to keep it that way in the future, so that in a hundred and a thousand years there will still be a Hungarian word in Munkács and Beregszász, Nagydobrony and Barkaszón, but also in Rahon and Kőrösmező. We work to prevent Transcarpathian Hungarians from being taken to distant and bloody wars. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] which have nothing to do with them, and so that the community, which has been remembered in the past few days, must never voluntarily or under duress migrate from the land of its ancestors, but there, as Hungarians, can build a better future for its children and grandchildren. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-11-22-176	Thank you very much. I would also like everyone to respect the time frame part of the house rules. Mr.Péter Hoppál, representative of Fidesz, now wishes to speak after the agenda: "The heroic stand of the Invisibles of Mecsek" in November 1956. Here you go.
u2016-11-22-177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, There are commemorations all over the country on the 60th anniversary of the 1956 Revolution and War of Independence on the glorious moments and tragic turns of the historic era, and on the bloody reprisals, martyrs and heroes that followed. Allow me to thank all the local governments, institutions and civil society organisations that joined the government's grand vision and contributed with their own events to what the then power did not do on the 50th anniversary, so that local communities could now discover their own stories of '56. They did so in order to ensure that the tragic events of the time that have been taking effect until now should not remain unspoken, although, unfortunately, the sinners of the time have in most cases remained unpunished; and that the heroes of the Hungarian War of Independence, who for the first time broke the gap in the Iron Curtain holding the entire Eastern Europe, should not remain anonymous, without expressing thanks and driving. Today, in this series of commemorations, we arrived at a day long after the takeover of the communist politicians who betrayed the country and the invasion of Soviet tanks. And although we remember it every year at the local level in Baranya, it is also worth mentioning here in the house of the country, because the last day of the freedom fight, the end of the organized armed resistance, is actually today, November 22, just 60 years ago, so that this heroic day has its own victims and heroes. They're nothing but the Mecsek invisible. One day before the siege of the capital city, on November 3, 1956, because of the outnumber, the Soviet army could enter Pécs almost without fighting. But some of the troops that were organized to protect the city fled to the Mecsek so that they could reorganize there together with hops and several other groupings. Soldiers, policemen, miners, students and young workers, all determined, ordinary people, in incomplete clothing, often fought against total overpowers with food and thirst for days, untimely handguns. Although the arrival of Soviet tanks in Budapest, after November 4, communist propaganda talked about the restoration of order, these young men, first 700-800, and finally 22 November, only 58 of them, organized in a group, continued their resistance and repeatedly disabled the incoming tanks, the Soviet forces. Their leader was Dr. Géza Horváth and the leader of the group Ottó Málics, who later died a martyr's death, Ottó Málics, János Kubicza, László Sima and Antal Lux. Many others have joined the resistance. On 22 November, the authorities captured the last of the resistance fighters hiding in Mecs. Sadly, the bloody, spectacularly horrifying tragic retribution could not have avoided them. Serial fires, mine fires, cannons, and then death sentences and prison years were waiting for the prisoners, and emigration to the remaining 58. We thank you for paying more attention to them in the 1956 commemoration series than we can mention many other heroes in the countryside for their courage and patriotism at the 60th anniversary. I want to thank them for their memory. In addition to the Mecsek invisibles, we know well that without the need for completeness, the historians have revealed the series fires that represent Hungary as a whole: Salgótarján, Mosonmagyaróvár, Debrecen, Berzence, Mórahalom, Győr, Budaörs, Nagykanizsa, Miskolc, Eger, Gyoma, Kevermes, Gyula, Tinnye, Zalaegerszeg, Hódmezővásárhely, Gyűletz, Csepel, Tatabánya, Esztergom, Sátoraljaújhely, Nyíregyháza, Kecskemét are all settlements where in the days before and after 4 November unarmed protestors and resistors have been killed. The memory of the Mecsek invisibles is also preserved today by a new monument set up in Pécs. We all want to contribute to ensuring that events and persons belonging to local identity, local history, do not become oblivious. May the memory of the heroes be blessed.
u2016-11-22-178	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Representative Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, applied for a speech after the agenda:. The untenable situation of the Hungarian vineyard families. It's an address. Here.
u2016-11-22-179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, I have been calling attention to the untenable situation of the domestic vineyard and partly winery families in many ways and times in the past period, but I have now asked for a word after the agenda, and I am speaking again in their interest because the other day I have received a call from the apraja-grand of the winery society, and it has brought me to the profession, to my fellow Members, but also to the members of the Committee on Agriculture, and, of course, to the professional wallet. [[18.30]] I took that vow, because nothing could sum up their problems more than the fact that they themselves would discuss it together and send it to all the people I had just listed, and I thought it would be fair and fair for a representative who had already represented their interests here in Parliament, if I read their letters word for word. Our Dear Fellows of Szőles-Borász! Citizen sympathizing with our kind cause! The situation of domestic vineyards deteriorates year after year. While the problems and proposals for solutions are well known, substantial government action has not yet been taken. We can't wait for a crowd of families to go down, we have to move. We ask the winemakers and winemakers of the country to join us, sign the attached petition and return it to us. In 2016, we Hungarian vine producers summarize the problems that affect us. The cultivation of a hectare of grapes involves such a financial expense that the price of the grapes often does not cover the cost of the work carried out. In August, which has been repeated for years, events in September raise the suspicion that a number of wine grape buyers have agreed buying-in prices and are therefore concentrated in price cartels. It is known that about five or six larger wineries in the country are involved in the large volume of Italian wine imports, they are also linked to the pressing of the grape purchase price, they are the unfair operators of the domestic market, but the Hungarian authorities are not taking action against them. Contract options and legislation are available which are not sufficiently capable of representing the interests of the workers in the sector. After all, we believe that all legislation which is beneficial to the sector and which protects the wine-growing sector is much more important than it is now, must be used by the legislator to create such contract opportunities. The conditions for EU and domestic applications in this sector should be designed in such a way that it is also useful and accessible to small producers. If the above problems are not resolved, it is forecast that the future of the sector that has traditionally provided many families in Hungary will become uncertain. This will already result in a concentration of production in the medium term and a drastic reduction in the production volume of the sector. And here the contact details were sent, for which they were waiting for the petition to be filled in. I must say on behalf of the Jobbik Hungary Movement that the problems that I have read here are real, and I, as Vice-President of the Committee on Agriculture, can confirm that these are indeed problems that have returned year after year, and we are saddened to see that government action is very thin in this regard. If I say that it is true that the five-six wineries that are responsible for the most serious imports of Italian wine are, it is due to the fact that they accept this suspicion from government-wide businesses, and not from a better politician, but from the vineyard society itself, and to say so in each forum. This would have the greatest impact, beyond the steps that I have listed here, and the profession expects, most of all, of Fidesz-KDNP, to curb and influence the activities of this business community. It cannot be true that the interests of some people must override the livelihood and interests of a whole vineyard society and many families. That is what I urge you to do, and here is also the petition that has been sent to all my fellow Members. I trust that as many of us here in Parliament will sign, pass it on, because maybe pressure can be the instrument that can then make the future of these families more meaningful. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President.
u2016-11-22-180	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its session at 8:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed. Good evening, everyone. [[Meeting ended at 6:32 p.m.]]
