u2016-06-08-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 35th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and István Ikotity will be taking part in this meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the report submitted by the State Court of Auditors on the professional activities of the State Audit Office in 2015 and the report on the operation of the institution for Parliament, together with the proposal for a decision on its adoption submitted by the Economic Committee, will follow. The proposals were submitted in B/10303. and H/10915. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, Allow me to welcome Mr László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office and Mr Tihamér Warvasovszky, Vice-President of the State Audit Office, Secretary General János Elek, and the officials of the Office who are monitoring our work. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, to present the report. Mr. President, you have the floor.
u2016-06-08-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Vice President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Ladies and Gentlemen, The Act on the State Audit Office states that the President of the State Audit Office shall give the National Assembly every year information on the activities of the organisation in the previous year and on the measures taken on the basis of the audit findings, and shall present the institution's operation and management in an annual report audited by an independent auditor. With the information submitted to Parliament, I shall comply with this legal obligation. Public sector control, in particular with regard to the Court of Auditors' audit, is capable of launching and encouraging changes that make citizens' daily lives better. The final objective of the State Audit Office as a public institution is to make the Court's work accessible to society and to create added value at social level. In this spirit, 2015 was a year of expansion in the life of the State Audit Office. We actively supported the legislative activities of the Parliament and the well-managed state operation. We have made greater use of our legal remedies. We have kept you and the public informed of our audit findings and our analytical conclusions. We expanded our advisory and scientific activities, shared the good practices we learned, and were active players in the international community of SAIs last year. In Expozem, I summarize the output results and the utilisation of the Court of Auditors' activities in 2015 through the Court's audits, analyses and advisory activities. I will specifically mention the progress of the tasks entrusted to the State Audit Office by Parliament in recent years. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The State Audit Office carried out its audit activities in 2015 on the basis of renewed audit methodologies, in line with international standards considered to be relevant. The principles of the Court's audit are public, accessible and accessible to all stakeholders and interested parties, thus ensuring the transparency of our institution's activities. It is also the result of last year's rethinking of our quality assurance processes that the format of the Court's reports has been renewed, which we presented to you at the President's meeting and asked for their opinion. Our main aim was to increase clarity and clarity for users, above all for you, Members of Parliament. In the process of renewal, we also requested the opinions of the parliamentary committees, and we were pleased to note that we had received supportive feedback. The Court of Auditors shall use complex risk analysis procedures when defining control topics or identifying organisations subject to control. This aims at broadening the control coverage, increasing the number of control sites, making optimal use of our resources, and identifying risky areas or organisations, in order to detect possible public financial irregularities. As a result of its risk analysis activities, in 2015, the State Audit Office carried out audits in areas where the highest added value could be achieved at national level and further reduced previously uncontrolled areas, so-called white spots. For example, such was the inspection of the Medical Chamber. Dear House, In 2015, the State Audit Office published 221 reports and 26 analyses, i.e. at least one report or analysis per working day. In order to make the checks possible, 350 of the 750 audited organisations were proposed to take nearly 2 thousand measures to correct the irregularities and deficiencies identified and to reduce the identified risks. With our inspections carried out in 2015, we have contributed to the sustainability of macroeconomic processes. We have focused particularly on areas affecting economic growth, competitiveness, public debt and fiscal balance, as well as on the monitoring of public service organisations. With our controls on the National Tax and Customs Office, we have contributed to the operational and organisational renewal of the state tax authority, to increase the efficiency of tax collection and debt management. The state tax authority is constantly focused on our controls, we carry out two or three inspections at the tax office every year. Our experience of monitoring tax collection and budgetary revenue and analysis has shown that changes in the tax system in recent years have contributed to the consolidation and stabilisation of the budget through several elements. At the same time, there are additional options for whitening the economy and increasing the efficiency of tax collection, and I think it would be appropriate to introduce and apply the concept of sustainable whitening. The essence of this is that the surplus resulting from the whitening of the economy is left by the State in the form of lower tax rates or targeted discounts for taxpayers; the lower tax rates may lead to further whitening of the economy. Returning to last year, with the control of the operation of the former Financial Supervisory Authority of the Hungarian National Bank between 2009 and 2013 we focused attention on the previous shortcomings in the supervisory activities of PSZTF. We have supported the justification for the transformation of financial supervision, thus supporting the strengthening of public control mechanisms in the financial sector as well. [[9.10]] I would like to stress here that every year we check the National Bank of Hungary under the relevant legal regulations. Our 2014 evaluation report will be published soon, and at the same time, under the April 2016 amendment, we have started preparing the conformity checks of the foundations set up by the National Bank. With regard to the control of the tax authority and financial supervision, I draw attention to the fact that the audits carried out in the organisations carrying out audits and supervision activities in recent years have shown that a comprehensive review and analytical evaluation of state control methods may be warranted. We will also do this work, and we will inform Parliament about our experiences. Last year, we also carried out a system audit of the National Development Agency for the period 2007-2013. A summary of recent years' experience in monitoring and analysis confirmed the justification for the restructuring of the domestic EU support institution and confirmed the need to prioritise economic development in support of sustainable growth through the use of resources available between 2014 and 2020. In accordance with the legal requirements, we also guarded the bodies involved in the management of state assets in 2015. The availability of reliable balance sheets and asset holdings at the organizational level is essential for the preparation of a reliable, fair picture national statement of assets, and this has therefore been the focus of our controls. We have carried out a control over the exercise of ownership rights over state assets for 2014. It has been concluded that the establishment of a control environment and control system for entities carrying out tasks relating to the exercise of ownership rights over public property has become more regulated than in previous years. This also means that we benefit from our annual inspections. At the same time, we have identified a number of shortcomings in several areas, and we made a number of proposals last year to correct them. Here I would like to point out that the annual reports of state wealth management are currently being followed up, and we will soon give feedback on the implementation of the tasks that have been due in recent years. We have focused attention on systemic irregularities and on the problems of public wealth management that have existed for nearly two decades. In this respect, it is important to note that, according to the relevant portfolio and forest information, the eradication of irregularities found has already begun. The implementation of the relevant tasks will also be assessed through follow-up audits. Last year, we closed the system-wide control of all state higher education institutions, as well as the control of the two church higher education institutions. In total, we published a report on financial and wealth management of 21 universities and colleges in terms of state institutions. With our experience of monitoring and analysis, we have contributed to the renewal of the laws governing the functioning of higher education institutions, the strengthening of the rules on financial and asset management of institutions and the exercise of ownership rights, and the transformation of management powers. As last year, the audit of additional public hospitals and health institutions is being carried out, its experience has led the Court to draw similar conclusions that significant changes are justified in terms of health institutions, which we know is being examined by the government. Last year, we kept an eye on party and campaign money. We checked the use of campaign funds for the 2014 parliamentary elections and the settlement of public funds for the three elections. We also carried out legal checks on the management of six parties and their foundations. The experience of monitoring campaign funds has increased transparency in the use of campaign funds due to legislative changes, and the possibilities for monitoring have improved, but our audits have revealed a number of irregularities, especially in the case of nominating organisations that did not obtain a mandate in the parliamentary elections. Therefore, we have also made a number of signals to the authorities with procedural powers in the case in question and to the legislators. In 2015, we also paid attention to municipalities. On the basis of the assessment of the risks identified in previous years, in 2015 a particular focus was placed on the control of majority-owned companies. Last year we carried out inspections of 35 district heating companies and 9 waste management companies. This audit will continue today, with a report on the control of dozens of other companies coming out this year. We have drawn attention to the company's accounting and management weaknesses, which could jeopardise the financial balance of the owner's municipalities as well as the long-term sustainability of the reduction of costs. In addition, our audit findings will be useful in the process of increasing public ownership of public utility services. In 2015, we carried out checks on all 13 national minority self-governments and produced more than two dozen reports on the management of local municipal self-governments. We have contributed to ensuring the transparency and accountability of the national representative system that is unique in the world, to creating a regular operating framework, thereby strengthening social confidence. This area is also one that has received less attention in the last 20 years, so last year it concentrated on a larger number of checks.2011. The new Court of Auditors Act, in force from 1 July 2004, finally closed the era of checks without consequences. The audited organisations are obliged to draw up a plan of action in accordance with your decision in order to make use of our proposals. The legislation also stated that the implementation of action plans could be verified through post-control. In 2015, we carried out 25 independent follow-up checks, typically in municipalities. A major part of the municipalities involved in the follow-up controls has taken steps to achieve sustainable financial stability, which is an important milestone in preventing the re-production of municipal debt. However, some of the controlled municipalities did not carry out their tasks on time or at all. It has been pointed out that this poses a high risk to ensure the financial balance, regulated organisation and management of the municipality concerned. I would also like to emphasise that in 2016 and in the coming years we will continue to increase the number of follow-up checks, so that a system of checks with consequences can indeed be established in Hungary. All audited can expect the auditors to return and assess the implementation of the tasks undertaken in the action plans. If we find that the management and management of an organization has not done so, we will signal it to the Parliament and the maintainer. We will also consider the possibility provided by law to enable the President of the State Court of Auditors to take asset protection measures. Dear Parliament, The State Audit Office of Hungary prioritises the support of Parliament's work and participates in legislation and opinion on the legislation. In 2015, you referred to our reports and findings on 31 sitting days, and three parliamentary documents were discussed at plenary sessions. [[9.20]] In 2015, the work of the parliamentary committees and the legislative process continued to regularly rely on the findings, proposals contained in the Court's reports, and to make use of them. A total of 49 Court reports or other documents were discussed before the parliamentary committees in 2015. I would also like to draw the honourable Members' attention to our regularly prepared briefings for Parliament, in which we always provide you with concise information on our monitoring and analysis experience in connection with a current topic on the agenda. On the basis of the statutory mandate, in 2015, the State Audit Office notified an authority or competent body, in total, 194 times, of suspicion of a criminal offence or serious irregularity detected during its verification. In 2015, the Court of Auditors initiated 36 public procurement redress procedures. In these proceedings, the infringement was found almost without exception and in many cases a fine was imposed. A high level of social utilisation is a fundamental requirement for the State Audit Office. To this end, it is essential that our communication is proactive, world-wide and comprehensible. I would like to draw the honourable Members' attention to the fact that on our watch-to-hour news portal, we are constantly providing information on the results of our inspections. We inform visitors about our professional work and our internal operation, thus ensuring the transparency of our activities and the publicity of our work. We are also trying to set an example for public organisations and public spending organisations. On our news portal in 2015, we published nearly 1300 articles of our own. In addition, last year there were around 6,000 reports in the Hungarian media, a reference to the audits and activities of the State Audit Office. Dear House, As the main audit institution of Parliament, the State Audit Office pays particular attention to compliance with parliamentary decisions concerning the Court of Auditors. The implementation of these tasks is linked to our legislative advisory activity, which has been gradually extended over the past years. In the Parliament's decision, he entrusted the State Audit Office with the care of the Public Financial Science Journal, founded in 1954. The Hungarian and English language paper, which is now an impact factor, has been published in 2015 with four numbers, and is now known and recognised at international level as a journal and a scientific artifact. In recent years, in 2008-2009, Parliament has entrusted the State Audit Office with a number of decisions to strengthen the fight against corruption. In doing so, we also moved forward in 15 in the field of prevention-based anti-corruption and the dissemination of integrity-based organisational culture. Last year, for the fifth time, we carried out an annual assessment of the integrity of the corruption risks of the Hungarian public sector, to which about a thousand more 2557 organisations joined in 15 of the 2014 participation record. The participating organisations accounted for more than half of the total number of employees in the Hungarian public sector. This also means that in recent years we have managed to spread integrity-oriented thinking in the Hungarian administration. The survey will be carried out for the sixth time this year, but from now on we will focus on deepening and inspections. To this end, as part of the fight against corruption, the assessment of the validation of integrity-based operation will be published in all our audits, where this will be made possible by law. In the spirit of the relevant parliamentary and government decision, in December 2015, we extended our integrity survey to the majority state-owned companies, in the first weeks of 2016, more than 250 state-owned companies completed and returned the integrity questionnaire developed by the State Audit Office. Based on a summary of our analysis, some of the majority state-owned companies still have significant potential to develop integrity control. At the same time, a large part of the companies have statutory regulations. However, this is only a necessary but not sufficient condition for the establishment of organisational integrity. Voluntary integrity-enhancing regulation, the application of special integrity controls, is only characteristic of a narrow circle of participating companies. From autumn onwards, we plan to involve local government-owned companies in our survey. In the context of integrity, the Parliament asked the State Audit Office of Hungary in its 2015 decision on the organisation of the Olympic Games in Budapest in 2024 to provide professional support to the preparatory staff for the legitimate, professional, economical and efficient use of public funds. The related Court of Auditors study was published a few weeks ago, and I recommend it to your attention, because this is good support not only for the Olympics, but also for other large investments, I think. Our study has revealed and organised the typical corruption risks of large investments and integrity controls that reduce corruption risk, which are mandatory and applicable to large investments. We have pointed out that the Hungarian legislative environment generally provides the right conditions for the establishment of such a system, but it may also be necessary to establish additional legislation taking into account the specific features of the Olympics. The Parliament supported the participation of the State Audit Office in the activities of the international professional organisation of the main control institutions, the development initiative of INTOSAI, and provides professional support as a donor, with particular attention to the Hungarian foreign economic strategy. In order to carry out this task, last year we provided a logistical background for the IT audit training of the developing country capacity development organisation operating within INTOSAI. In addition, we have organised a one-week international integrity seminar for SAIs in developing countries on three occasions, with around 90 experts from 40 countries participating in our programme to support corruption prevention. This topic is linked to the fact that Hungary became one of the main donors of the international organization of SAIs' development initiative in the global fight against corruption, on the basis of the professional initiative of the State Audit Office. The financial support of some HUF 129 million was made possible by the 2014 operating savings of the State Audit Office. In 2015, the Parliament also asked the Court of Auditors in a decision to broaden its advisory activities on management systems and to support ethical public financial management. Last year, we drew the government's attention to the dangers and risks. The government confirmed in a decision that it considered it necessary to adapt the management system of state-owned public companies, based on our audit experience. In order to renew the management of the State, the State Audit Office has drawn up a four-point package of proposals, which included the need to continuously assess the work of the managers of public companies in terms of regularity, effectiveness, efficiency and economy. The ability and activity of the owner's right holder to assess effectiveness should be strengthened. Managers of public companies must comply with strict ethical and integrity principles and the remuneration system of company managers needs to be adapted. After drafting our proposals, we also started to develop control methods to assess the performance of state-owned companies and the activities of company management. In recent years, the State Audit Office has made the development of the financial culture of the Hungarian population a priority area for its social responsibility. This was confirmed by the Parliament's recognition and support of the institution's social involvement in the development of financial culture in its decision. In order to fulfil this function, our study on organisations and programmes related to the development of financial culture, presented on 15 April, is linked. [[He's showing it to me.]] Our research has been looking for an answer as to what might be the reason for the low effectiveness of financial culture development programmes and training courses. We have come to the conclusion that although a significant amount of public money is used for training, thematics and teaching materials are often not available, most of the trainings for just a few hours are exclusively for high school students and are not measured. [[9.30]] The State Audit Office continues to consider the development of the financial awareness of the Hungarian population in the context of high social responsibility. In my opinion, the development of the financial awareness of Hungarian families is a public issue. In view of this, I would like to add that the need for a national strategy is justified. It is in our common interest to reduce the risks to the national economy and to the macro-economic economy arising from inadequately substantiated financial decisions of individuals. I therefore particularly welcome the Parliament's proposal for a resolution on the agenda, and I can safely say that the State Audit Office is taking its part in the drafting of the strategy. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, In 2011, the Parliament confirmed the independence guarantees of the State Audit Office, in line with the constitutionalisation of the protection of public funds. At the same time, the Court's organisational renewal was strengthened, bearing in mind quality management, resource optimisation, transparency and the Court's usefulness. The core values of the State Audit Office's strategy are independence, credibility, impartiality, commitment to quality, and economy, efficiency, effectiveness and sustainability of our own operation. In view of the management of the year 2015, the State Audit Office carried out a rational, cost-effective management of the basic activity, while complying with the legislation and the external codes. On the basis of the audit opinion, the annual budget report shall give a reliable and fair view of the implementation of the budget of the State Audit Office for 2015, its financial position on 31 December 2015 and the results of the management of the year ending on that date. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and Gentlemen, Our aim remains to make the use of public funds, the management of public wealth more transparent and effective with our controls, analyses, continuous knowledge-sharing and advisory activities, and to contribute to the more efficient functioning of public services institutions, companies and systems. Our mission is to launch and support positive changes that affect the everyday life of Hungarian citizens and serve the development of the Hungarian economy by utilizing our controls and analyses. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-08-2	I thank the President for his report. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Roland of Mengyi, Vice-President of the Economic Commission, the author of the motion for a decision. Mr. Vice President, please.
u2016-06-08-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, It has now been five years since the renewal of the democratic state settlement, following the adoption of our 2011 Fundamental Law, we did not delay to confirm the audit possibilities and independence of the State Audit Office. Among the first fundamental laws, we have created and adopted the new SAO law, which can support the institution's operation more effectively than before. With the creation of a new regulatory environment, the era of forward-looking controls has been completed in Hungary. The positive signs of this are clear already in the last year, and the 2015 State Audit Office report shows that Parliament made a good decision five years ago, and the main audit body of the Parliament understood and put into practice the main message of the new Court of Auditors Act, the intention of the legislators, which entered into force in 2011, and accordingly, the State Audit Office, with its sound professional and value-creating audits, as defined in its mission, promoted transparency in public finances in 2015 and contributed to good governance. Ladies and gentlemen, Last year, with the proposals of the State Audit Office, it promoted the regular, economical, efficient and effective use of public funds, increased support for Parliament's work, as well as recommendations and briefings for Parliament. The recommendations of the State Audit Office concerned areas and current issues where the State Court of Auditors has unique audit experience. All these recommendations are forward-looking and highlight development directions. The recommendations on performance requirements, or even on the municipal sub-scheme, serve to ensure effective and efficient public spending, to strengthen responsibility, to prevent a series of economic policy and budgetary errors that are typical of socialist economic policy before 2010, and not least to mitigate existing risks. Accountability and accountability are closely linked to the concept of responsibility, i.e. it cannot remain without consequences if someone does not manage public funds properly and in accordance with the laws. For the sake of accountable public money use, as the President said, the SAO has notified an authority, a competent supervisory body, on a total of 194 occasions in the last year, of suspicion of offences or serious irregularities detected during its audits; 36 cases of appeal have been initiated. These figures also show that the SAO works closely with the authorities and makes use of the opportunities provided by the law. Dear House, Allow me to go further with my reflection on the consequences, including its initiatives linked to the consolidation of an integrity-based administrative culture. In 2007 the Hungarian Parliament called on the State Audit Office to pay more attention to the reduction of corruption risks and the transparency of public finances, and in 2009 the parliamentary resolution confirmed these efforts. Today, in 2016, we can say that there has also been a unique cooperation in the fight against corruption in Hungary at international level. From 2015 onwards, as part of the fight against corruption, the SAO has incorporated into its controls the validation and assessment of the integrity approach, as well as for the fifth time in 2015 the annual integrity survey of the Hungarian public sector on corruption risk mapping, which was extended to the majority of state-owned companies in December 2015. I have already mentioned that the SAO has unique audit experience and, on the basis of the shortcomings identified, it has an insight into the critical areas where the development of management systems is also necessary. Accordingly, it was not only justified, but it was also necessary for the Court of Auditors' functions laid down in the Fundamental Law and the SAO Act to broaden its advisory activities on management systems and to support ethical public financial management training. This was also the aim of our parliamentary decision in 2015. Dear House, On the basis of the report presented to us, the SAO has fully complied with its legal obligations: it has taken risky areas of control, analyses and studies to support the work of the Board of Budgets and the parliamentary committees. However, as we have heard, the SAO is extremely serious about compliance with our parliamentary decisions in recent years. Not least, it supports initiatives such as the fight against corruption, the creation of an integrity-based public administration, the transformation of state management and the development of the financial culture of the Hungarian population, which is extremely important. As a confirmation, I'd like to list some numbers. Last year, the SAO published 221 reports and 26 analyses. Its activity was characterised by widespread use. Last year, the SAO was present at some 750 locations, and it made nearly 2 thousand proposals to 350 recipients. At 31 meetings, our parliamentary committees discussed 49 Court documents. However, in my opinion, these are not the only figures that really describe the performance of the Court of Auditors. It is much more important that through its controls it has exposed the problems and areas to be developed in which we need progress. In addition, it continuously identifies instruments that can promote the orderly functioning and responsible use of public funds by public entities regardless of controls. A typical example of this is the voluntary self-test system, which was first developed by the State Audit Office for municipal and ethnic authorities and ecclesiastical institutions, and then made available to central institutions from spring this year in terms of EU funds. This tool also illustrates the innovative and supportive operation of the SAO, as it can also promote the functioning of municipalities, national authorities and institutions that have not yet been directly covered by the Court of Auditors' audit or vision. I think this is also a good example of the SAO's support function, not ignoring the fact that there is no more cost-effective control than the preventive self-test system. [[9.40]] Ladies and gentlemen, Speaking of the proposal for a decision tabled by the Economic Committee without voting against, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the State Audit Office, as part of its role in the development of financial culture, considered it its task to map initiatives for the development of domestic financial culture, to measure its effectiveness and effectiveness, which it has made public. The SAO has carried out an assessment of the organisations involved in the development of financial culture and the programmes they run. The results of the research have shown that the development of financial awareness for the whole Hungarian society is justified for balanced economic development and for reducing the risks of the financial system. In the process of developing financial awareness, the State Court of Auditors should continue to act as an active initiator, using its audit experience, with its strong professional-scientific background as a catalyst and a supportive function. This can be achieved primarily by participating in the preparation of the national strategy, by cooperating with the relevant actors of the State, and by performing the tasks arising from existing cooperations, which I would like to ask you to implement and support, I suggest that the National Assembly also authorise and encourage the SAO. Ladies and gentlemen, Reading this year's report and last year's report, and listening to the additional data at the committee's meeting, I was also strengthened by the fact that in 2015 the State Audit Office of Hungary was really active. This is also particularly important because, here, not only in relation to public and municipal investment, but also in its operation, the way in which public funds are used must be monitored. It is of particular joy that the SAO's professional opinion is reflected not only in the audits, but also in the proposals for action in the course of the audits, but also in a preventive way in order to prevent these problems, even if it is a problem of negligence and exerts a specific activity in order to involve both public organisations and local governments in such an information and activity circle. The justification for this cannot be questioned. As Mr President said, 2557 organisations have joined the local government and the state sector, covering virtually all areas. We hope that this will have a tangible impact in the years to come. The seriousness of the Court's work is indicated by the fact that 190 cases have been reported or reported, where further investigations will determine the seriousness of the infringements or irregularities that have been considered. I would like to pay tribute to the work carried out by the SAO, as it is a great help to the municipalities and to the state institutions the professional support of the SAO. In the course of the audits, the SAO informs the stakeholders and municipalities in writing about the experience of the audit, in many cases drawing up an action plan to assist. In conclusion, the SAO continues to keep an eye on public funds, on the Hungarian people's tax forints, increasingly supporting the operation of a well-managed state. Just to highlight a few things, he intervened in areas of major social importance, carried out surveys and audits: he carries out his checks on the National Tax and Customs Office, the National Bank of Hungary, forestry farms, public waterworks, public utility companies. It can also be stressed that it pays great attention to the monitoring of the higher education institution system that determines the growing generations. As I said, an extremely important preventive and supportive, educational role is also played by the voluntary self-test system, which is worth highlighting. It paid particular attention to the monitoring of areas affecting the country's economic competitiveness, in terms of the long-term positive outcome of GDP development, also considering them. From the point of view of the Parliament, it is reassuring that the SAO supports our work in substance by giving an opinion on the draft legislation. By continuing to monitor local and national authorities, the SAO has facilitated transparency in these areas. In the area of the development of the financial culture, which has already been mentioned, the SAO has contributed to the expansion of the public's knowledge of financial, public and public burdens. What is very important for the SAO's activities is that it has developed the so-called Hungarian model, which facilitates the introduction of the anti-corruption tool system, in which the authority is not opposed to the already deluded citizen, but, in order to prevent this, the leaders of public institutions are obliged to do so and to create an internal operating environment to protect their organisation and its employees against the dangers of corruption. Of course, the many important and useful, effective activities carried out by the SAO in 2015 could still be classified for a long time. In conclusion, on the basis of the report before us and in the light of the arguments set out above, I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the proposal for a decision, thereby strengthening the parliamentary confidence in the State Audit Office. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-08-4	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Péter Cseresnyés, Secretary of State, who wishes to speak on behalf of the government. Mr. Secretary.
u2016-06-08-5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and Gentlemen, I asked for the floor because I would like to inform the Parliament that the Government has reviewed the accounts of the State Audit Office and does not wish to comment on it. I would also like to thank the employees of the State Audit Office for what they have done during the last year's work and have done. I would also like to thank Mr President for the report and the State Audit Office, all of his staff, for their very good work next year, and I wish you a great deal of results. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-08-6	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We now have speeches from Members. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr Mengyi Roland, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, if you wish to take this opportunity as a lead speaker, Member, or consider the previous speech by the Commission to be a keynote speaker. Here you go.
u2016-06-08-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. If this is possible, both the Commission and the keynote speaker will be in line with the content of the two, but I would obviously still like to participate in the debate as a Member.
u2016-06-08-8	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, my fellow Member. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Szakács, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2016-06-08-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, There has been a lot of appreciation for the organisation, work and work of the State Audit Office. I don't want these things to be taken away in the first place. I think that the State Audit Office in Hungary is an important institution in the system of brakes and balances, which must indeed carry out the tasks which Mr President has reported. [[9.50]] We may have to say that, of course, the Parliament expects, and every member of Parliament expects, to do so at a high professional level. I myself, as a former municipal person, as a person who often comes into contact with the State Audit Office, I have to say that the work they do really helps those who have to farm with public funds, and those guidelines, and not least that kind of attitude, are very commendable, I have to say, what can be experienced there. And that really helps everyone in their work. However, as an opposition representative, I must draw attention to the fact that I believe that there are some that are very pronounced, let us say, in the report; they are much less pronounced in the actions. And there are things that, of course, are left out of the account, or there are things - and this is the third group - that we judge differently in this regard. Mr President started by giving information to Parliament every year at the request of the Speaker of Parliament by the State Audit Office. It's very commendable, and it's not like the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, who always sends someone to replace you. You really will come and tell me in person. There are two of them, by the way: you and the Attorney General, others are not. Others send someone to replace themselves, who, by the way, sits through the debate from the box, cannot speak to him, cannot answer the questions asked to him, sometimes they promise to answer in writing, but they do not do so either. I think that what should be general, as you do, is exceptional in Hungary today. I would like to underline this by pointing out that, as in the case of other organisations with a reporting obligation to Parliament, in the system of brakes and balances in the rule of law, in democracy, they play a role that would certainly require what you are doing to come, to report in person, to listen to the debate and to react to it. What we called for last year, I will also take account of this year, because one more line, who did not come and report in time, needs to be supplemented - we asked the State Audit Office to take this into account - was the Centre for Pension Recovery and Debt Management. That should have been reported every year, too. During his standing, he did not report once, and reported on each year in the framework of five agenda items discussed in a row in the framework of five agenda points last year. Consequently, it can be logically concluded that the fund worked for five years. In one day, this was quickly shredded in Parliament, so to speak, in a common language, and then in the sixth item on the agenda. The fund that should have been accounted for by HUF 3 billion per year for Hungarian pensioners and pre-savers, was abolished, not presented to us at the end of the fifth year. We asked the SAO to help us with that. Be helpful in this, review it, bring it to us, as this has been left out of previous SAO reports. What we always ask the SAO to do in these studies and reports is to see a reasonable, effective and effective study and findings, and appropriate guidelines for them. We believe that these may be the most important. We are sure that those who manage public funds with very, very small percentages will try to spend them legally. How the legal, moral and morals of today's Hungary are divorcing each other, not responding to the past eight years of my fellow Member, Mengyi, I think very much. Public confidence in public institutions is therefore exactly what it is today in Hungary. But in the event that the State Audit Office carries out such an analysis of effectiveness and efficiency, especially in sensitive areas that cause widespread scandal, it raises the public's attention, and, in particular, shapes the public's attention, it would do the very best if the State Audit Office, as an independent body, went away, examined, made a statement, and thus clarified the issue. By the way, Hungarian citizens, taxpayers, would see that it is not possible to do everything they want to do, because the State Audit Office is coming, and it will determine what should have been done. That's where we see the hiatus in certain cases. Mr President has mentioned that the use of campaign funds has also been investigated. Obviously, I think that, as for us, as for others, in terms of the accounting of the business parties established for 2014, which may be said as a summary, I think that it has not been completed in the thinking of the people or the Parliament, the Members of Parliament, nor what has happened, that it is possible to run for elections, to obtain 106 people, to set up a parliamentary list, to post some posters, and then, if it does not succeed in accounting, then the hell is there. We do not see that the leaders of so many business parties, the leading bodies of so many business parties, have been caught up with either the State Audit Office or any other organization monitoring public finance supervision, the use of public funds, or even the use of the campaign. I think that, by the way, if we see in the emphasis that anti-corruption is one of the most important issues of the State Court of Auditors, then this, where there are parties in politics, can spend hundreds of millions of forints, and then we can stick their trail, causing any harm in public life, politics, campaigns, not least in public confidence, I think we still have something to do with this, if we seriously underline anti-corruption as we have heard in the Commission report, and as we have heard from Mr President. I'd say the same in the Quaestor case. I'm not gonna rip off the whole case right now, there's gonna be a chance for that today. But we barely remember that there's a sub-committee in the walls of this House that explores broker scandals. My fellow Member, Mr Lajos Szűcs, Vice-President of the Committee on Budgets, is chairman of this. I don't think they've called this committee in a year, I think it's been two meetings, one of which was the inaugural meeting. That's where we invited the State Audit Office because we think there might have been public money at Quaestor. We would not have asked whether there was a legal possibility that either the Ministry or the Ministry could hold money there, whether it was a background institution or a local government; whether there was any legal basis for this, and I still didn't ask who made the mistake. Because it can only be put on if the SAO finds out they couldn't have kept money there. We also asked you last year, we ask you again this year, but I have to start with a thought from the back. There have been a lot of debates this year since the last report was heard about what is public money and what is not. I think that the wording of what is public money is quite intimidating, and then we learned a new figure of speech: it loses the character of public money. [[10.00]] Then it turned out that the MNB's assets couldn't lose their public finances, even if they put them in foundations or in companies founded by foundations. I would like to draw your attention here to one thing before I ask the questions: in the debate of the SAO's report last year, in the same way, we asked him to pay close attention to the fact that, in terms of effectiveness, rationality and legality, the Hungarian National Bank can do to place Magyar Nemzeti Bank's assets in foundations, and these foundations carry out activities, namely property, art purchase, educational activities, and the rest, which do not belong to the functions of the Hungarian National Bank in both close and broad terms. Then the majority of the governor of this House voted against this parliamentary resolution, obviously by force, and they felt that it was not right, but then there should not be such a parliamentary decision. If they didn't feel it was wrong, it was even worse. But things have happened since then, it has turned out that public money is public money, and it will remain so even if Matolcsy says that it is not, and I believe that there is another aspect of the use of these, in relation to the State Audit Office, which means that not only compliance with the letter of the law, but also reasonableness, effectiveness, logic and efficiency, and I would like to ask Mr President, if not so far, to pay greater attention to this in the future. It is also possible to mention Posta's contracts, which were almost encrypted; it is also possible to mention the combination of public companies with private companies, where they want us to avoid Parliamentary representatives from any contractual, financial or whatever obligations arising from the market activity of public companies. We think they're wrong, not if it's about the Post Office, not if it's about MET, not if it's about the MNB. These cases, I think, all of them cast a shadow over the very, very underlined and infinitely highlighted two goals I have heard here: one is anti-corruption and the other is the question of financial culture. I believe that, on the issue of financial culture, the State Audit Office cannot afford to tolerate and listen to the fact that private brokerage companies could or could not have made public money that they would not come to the Commission's hearing. I think that it is difficult for the State Audit Office to afford, or perhaps not to afford, an inexorable amount of HUF 266 billion of funds transferred to the Foundations of the Hungarian National Bank not to be rational, productive, and legitimate, to be able to base the public trust that we intend to build and destroy, not to let people see that if Matolcsy is free, then everyone is free to see that public funds are clearly managed along red threads, that people who manage public funds are controlled by people who notice these things, not by people who do not come to the committee hearing who go over these things. I believe that this cannot be a goal, nor can it be a goal, that these procedures should be drawn away, nor can it be a goal, that they may be left without any conclusions, as in the case of business parties. I will not go past six years, my honourable fellow Member, that is obviously a completely different line that you are following right now. [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks.]] My position is that it's not more effective. Thank you very much.
u2016-06-08-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Hollik, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2016-06-08-11	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, President László Domokos and my fellow Member Roland Mengyi, on behalf of the Economic Committee, presented in detail the SAO's report on its professional activities and the operation of the institution in 2015, so allow me to draw attention to some important but complementary points in my speech. In recent years, the SAO has also continuously developed its methodology in parallel with the organizational renewal, to which the rethinking of quality management processes has also been integrally linked. In fact, at the Commission's hearing, the President gave us a very detailed account of this. According to the SAO, we do not need quality-controlled products, as said there, but quality-oriented processes, which carry the quality of the outputs themselves. I believe that the SAO has become one of the main control agencies by developing quality management and methodological renewal, which is able to support the functioning of a well-managed state as a constitutional organisation with the confidence of citizens and which is essential professionally. In short, it could therefore be said that the SAO did its job last year, and the report shows that it did so well and at a high level. In 2015 the SAO published 221 reports, 26 studies and analyses in the framework of its professional work and sent 12 briefings to Members of Parliament with a view to good quality legislation. He organized four self-organized seminars with good practice and shared his extensive experience at dozens of external conferences and other events. I believe that this too - although not organically - fits into such a social responsibility task. In 2015, several municipal and state-owned companies were controlled by the SAO. As stated at the Commission's hearing, the methodology of controls has also been developed, and instead of general controls, the SAO has shifted to the control of targeted areas most at risk of corruption, hoping that these targeted controls will be even more effective. In the framework of these audits, the audit of district heating and waste management companies and public forestry farms was carried out, and the SAO also completed the system-wide audit of state higher education institutions. The SAO's audits contribute to the operational and organisational renewal of the NAV, to the efficiency of tax collection and backup management. With the control of the National Bank of Hungary and the State Supervisory Authority of the former Financial Institutions, the SAO pointed the attention to previous operational deficiencies in financial supervision, thus supporting the strengthening of the MNB's control mechanism. The system audit of the National Development Agency, a summary of the audit experience, also confirmed the justification for the transformation of the domestic EU support institution system. That's what Mr. President was referring to in his exposé. These results were recognised by the Parliament in a decision in July 2015, while the Parliament also commissioned the State Audit Office to broaden its advisory activities on management systems and to support ethical public financial management training. I think we've seen in recent times that the SAO has been able to comply with this parliamentary request. It has contributed to the implementation of the conditions for dual training and further training, and a university training system has been established, which will explore and educate the measurement of public performance in the coming years. In the spirit of social responsibility, in line with the parliamentary decision adopted in 2014, they have also been the initiators of the national cooperation developing the financial culture of the Hungarian population, which is highlighted in the Commission's report. [[10.10]] In this connection, I would like to tell you that the State Audit Office has recently examined the issue of the financial culture and financial awareness of the population, and in its research completed in 2016, it has been looking for an answer as to what might be the reason for the low effectiveness and inefficiency of programmes and training aimed at developing financial culture. Research based on a questionnaire survey provides a comprehensive picture of national financial culture development programmes and reveals shortcomings in existing training systems and programmes. On this basis, the State Audit Office considers it appropriate to strengthen quality and effectiveness factors and to enforce them in training and vocational training programmes in order to facilitate responsible and sound public spending. Speaking of the SAO's proposal, we have recently turned to the Minister of the National Economy on an immediate question:. What does the government do to develop financial awareness and to develop financial culture? The title, which was about what basic economic knowledge and skills can help schoolchildren and young people leaving the school bench to develop financial awareness by the state and other institutional systems. On behalf of the NGM, Mr András Tállai pointed out in his reply that not only young people should be prepared for information between financial products in their lives, but also older people. The government is currently helping the population with various programmes, and we have already included financial education in the National Basic Training Plan, to this end. I trust that, as the Committee has formulated its proposal to the State Court of Auditors, it will continue to be an active initiator in the process of developing financial awareness and will use its audit experience and, with its strong scientific and professional background, play a catalyst role and a supportive role. That is why I was very pleased to hear that Mr President specifically pointed out that, as has been the case so far, the SAO's social responsibility programme will continue to focus on strengthening financial awareness, the financial awareness of the population and the Hungarian people. On this basis, it can be said that this report shows that last year the SAO did its job in high quality and good quality, so we support the adoption of this report on behalf of the KDNP faction, and we ask our pro-government and opposition colleagues to do the same. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-06-08-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2016-06-08-13	Mr President, Dear House, We have to say that every year we come to a similar stage of debate when we are actually talking about two proposals, right, there is a report submitted by the SAO, and a proposal for a decision to adopt this, which will be technically acceptable in the House if the majority of the government decides to do so. Obviously, on the opposition side, we can speak best of the protocol, as television and other mediation are no longer typical, the television channel from Parliament has failed, so there is a very limited impact that we can exercise in order to make progress at least with regard to our substantive comments. In the beginning, we need to address certain points of the President's greeting, because the aim of creating transparency in public money matters is a very general thing, but, of course, to be supported, undisputed, the reduction of corruption is a similar moment, which I think all sane people should support, but we see that the international principles, understanding and, in particular, the reduction of public debt, as the goal that appears, are indeed nice, but in terms of the war in this regard, it is very Czech, both the government and the apparatus that gives good advice on this matter. After all, the aim of the various findings and plans of the Széll Kálmán plan for this year was a approximately 65-70% proportional debt ratio, compared with a good 10 percentage points or more. We always say that we are not against it, but the fact is that we have failed to make substantial progress in this area. In such cases, the government is always looking for a new indicator, where appropriate, if it failed at nominal, a GDP ratio, if even the government debt-to-GDP ratio increases, then it will create another indicator. The fact is, therefore, that the management of debt, the system and the asset system of this debt have not substantially changed since the social liberal governments. So the quote-marked debt management practice of the past eight years and the amazing similarities that have occurred since then have unfortunately failed, and we also see that, at systemic level, the mere interest repayment burden imposed on the country as a kind of protection money, as a penalty tax, is still over a thousand billion in reappearing budget plans. The fact is, this has not been changed by magnitude. We see that the creation and expansion of internal resources could help to alleviate the situation. Some of the investigations and findings of the State Court of Auditors are aimed precisely at the fact that there is something going on here, for example, the integrity assessment of the public sector asks 7200 budgetary bodies by e-mail to complete the questionnaire for the assessment of corruption risks. So, unfortunately, we are looking to a questionnaire for meaningful progress. Otherwise, it could be, because if we could only determine what happens to local authorities who remain out of control of public funds to this day - so we can see that there are hundreds of local authorities and municipalities operating in Hungary, who are essentially not controlled by anyone - we could make substantial progress. I ask this question every year, and every year I get an answer to it that we will slowly control everyone next year or the following years, but in terms of public finances, the goal that can only be achieved is that all of these poets, all of these poetic bodies and organization in Hungary should be examined by the body responsible for this. Unfortunately, we see that this has not yet happened. The most interesting part for me, however, is clearly when the State Audit Office has come to the point where it has already begun preparations for the control of the Pallas Foundations, so it is precisely that the Hungarian National Bank will verify at least its dubious, controversial management bodies. Obviously, the news before us on 31 May 2016 was dated at 17:19 p.m., so it would be very difficult to report results here, but we can see that besides the SAO's basic audit activity, the role of the statutory consultant should indeed be enforced, as in addition to the fact that it is developing an integrity culture and similar, I'm sorry, but it is a bit of a bullshit, too general, too general, that the SAO would be able to make an amazing progress here, if necessary, by honestly exposing to the maladministrations in the spending of the foundations of the MNB, which I do not think can occur in a normal national economy. I am not thinking primarily about buying art and paintings, I am not just thinking about this incredibly narrow-minded portfolio expansion of real estate, which will come back in a period of crisis. After all, in a time of crisis, what is going through the fastest impairment, and what is the most difficult thing to mobilize? It's exactly the property portfolio these guys gave themselves to and gave their heads to expand. We have to say that these are very disturbing, extremely disturbing items, and very far from the core activity of the MNB. So here, too, there is a distortion of proportion between the MNB's laid-down core activity and its incredibly swollen complementary activities, but what is most damaging - and I am very confident that the SAO will be able to produce substantial results here - are the suspected and already admitted purchases of sovereign debt which otherwise took place in a distorting manner of the market in the order of 100 billion. Of course, we are also disturbed by the fact that these are prohibited by various international financial rules, although I would add that they are in third place with me, at best, what different international rules are trying to impose on the country and what they are not, in addition to, of course, complying with certain rules of the game. [[10.20]] But what is amazing is how much it is able to distort both statistics and market indicators by the mass of unregulated sovereign debt purchases, which is assumed to have taken place by the various sub-organisations or foundations of the MNB. Let's just think about the statistics on sovereign debt. An intervention of the magnitude of 100 billion, essentially public money - it can be argued that it has lost its public money character or not, but essentially from public money - is demonstrably distorting the statistics on this issue, the extent of Hungary's indebtedness, and, where appropriate, it can influence the facts on which we say and then a budget will be based later on the government. So this is a clear market intervention, which goes against certain rules in the wrong direction, but otherwise it is pointless, because real market processes are not behind it, and once again we can only observe distortion and distortion without real market developments. So when the activities of the foundations of the MNB, I hope, will be thoroughly examined by the SAO, then I very much hope that you will also have a condition as to whether these sovereign debt purchases could be made in a normal way, whether these methods are acceptable to a national economy, so the intervention methods without the underlying economic and other processes, and to what extent these available statistics will be distorted. And since, in the SAO Presidential Introduction itself, in the Presidential toast, we have discussed the reduction of public debt as a concrete objective, I would be very interested to know how personally the head of the SAO and its leaders are affected by this, how acceptable it is to change, let us say, the rates and indicators showing indebtedness, and how interested they are in moving in a positive direction with real market processes, as it is difficult to assess a positive move that the MNB Foundations purchase sovereign debt from amounts that have not lost their public money, which are channeled, and this is already capable of distorting substantially the statistics on indebtedness. With this, Hungary will not get out of any trap, will not win the fight against sovereign debt. As I mentioned, the debt management methodology is the same as in the time of the Balliberal Governments, so this government could not show any meaningful movement, it did not sit at a negotiating table, it did not negotiate successfully with anyone in essence. He's trying, quote, to outgrow this debt, so to show an economic performance that would mean that the interest repayment burden of over a thousand billion would first be a little lower and then substantially reduced. This could otherwise have been a realistic scenario, just not in this region, not in this EU yoke we are standing under, not in the midst of a cash pump where multinational interests pump more than HUF 4000 billion annually without tax on profits and other payments, with different reasons, such as renting manufacturing technology, renting know-how, renting an IT system and more. So, unfortunately, it has not been possible to impose any restrictions on this process. What we see is that in this bled-out situation, in the middle of such a reverse money pump, you simply cannot outgrow this debt. So what we see is that in six years, you have not been able to make any substantial progress in this area, the management tools are the same, the repayment burden remains over a thousand billion each year. That this is now 1325 or 1,150, this is an important difference, so I appreciate the fact that there is a hundred or a few billion forints freed up there, and this can be channeled elsewhere, but they could not change the basic lines of the dried-up economy, that there will be a thousand billion differences here due to the fact that the debt management system is completely the same, that it has not been possible to set certain economic units on their own with the use of EU funds. So Hungary is actually operating at the level of a German colony with half status, and its economic performance depends on how different German car companies are doing their portfolio distribution or what investments they make in the region, and the current Hungarian growth figure depends on how cheap the Hungarian labour force is. It's a vulnerable colonial status. This does not mean that debt cannot be outgrown, but the sustainability of the country's current social security and pension system will be questioned in 20-30 years. So it can be seen that Hungary has not been able to set off on its way out in the last six years with regard to a completely wronged economic policy, where the accounting profession knows about 60 types of taxes or types of tax increases from the last six years. In an incredibly overtaxed economy, where, according to OECD statements, the fourth largest tax on two-seek families with two children are taxed here among the countries under investigation, unfortunately, there has also been a lack of progress towards recovery. This is why we also expect the SAO's investigations and future investigations to help uncover these maladministrations, to help Hungary's current leadership to take meaningful steps; otherwise, not only in terms of reducing public debt and getting out of the trap, but also in order to prevent Hungary from experiencing the scandal caused by the foundations of the MNB, it is not possible that the MNB's fund of foreign exchange creditors should be spent for purposes that were not laid down by law and which, in my view, would not have been permissible. So these spendings weren't regular. We would also like to encourage the SAO to contribute to the work of redirecting the Hungarian National Bank back to its core activity, and to rescind it from its complementary activities of 70-80 percent, if it is possible to influence such processes. But we urge him to help the development of real Hungarian financial sovereignty by focusing on his core activity, because we cannot talk about this at the moment. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-08-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The group of the LMP did not give a keynote speaker. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Independent Members also do not participate in the debate. Dear Parliament, The opinion of the committee representing nationalities is presented by two speakers. First, I give the floor to Serbian speaker Alexov Lyubomir, who will present the first sentences of his speech in his mother tongue and then translate it into Hungarian. Here you go, Mr. Speaker.
u2016-06-08-15	Thank you for the floor. Poštovani Predsednice! Poštovana Skupštino! U ime Narodnosnog odbora Parlamenta iznosimo usaglašen stav o izveštalju Državne kontrolne komisije. Mr President, Dear Parliament, B/10303 on the professional activities of the State Court of Auditors in 2015 and on institutional functioning I would like to address the following from a national minority point of view, as the voice requested by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. In addition to a number of areas, the State Audit Office carried out an extended investigation in 2015 to verify the management of local national authorities and national minority self-governments. As part of the medium-term audit concept of the State Court of Auditors, it assessed, in line with the strategy, whether the regularity of the financial management of municipalities, the regulated management of asset management activities and the establishment and regularity of the internal control system of municipalities and nationalities were ensured. Between January 2015 and 31 December 2015, the State Audit Office published 26 Court reports on the control of the management of local minority self-governments. The shortcomings identified in the reports and the raising of awareness about them are of great importance for future operations, but it is also apparent that about 80 percent of the errors found were not related to the work of the national authorities, which were comments on the work of the local government offices and notaries that performed the task under the cooperation agreement. The audit experience has shown that CLXXIX 2011 on the rights of nationalities. law sets out a framework, in the field of national law, local government autonomy, the existing and relevant legislative frameworks in practice are less conducive to national self-government. I will explain in detail below that the current framework of standards puts national governments in a vulnerable position for local authorities. [[10.30]] The law on the rights of nationalities is 80. Paragraph 2 requires the local government and the local government to conclude a cooperation agreement or to review it annually. The law states that it is the obligation of the local government to ensure the proper conditions for the management and operation of the local minority self-government. The experience of the audit of the State Audit Office has also shown that the regularity of the management of local self-governments was largely dependent on the task of the municipal mayor's office performing economic activities. The local government shall ensure the use of the premises and the availability of the assets of the local government through the mayor. Just as it provides professional work through the staff of the Office, the current invitations and the uploading of the minutes to the national register are also carried out by mayor's staff. The notary of the municipality must be present at the meetings of the local government and indicate if there is an infringement. I would note only in parentheses that this requirement in practice also means that the language of the meetings will automatically not be the language of nationality, since the notaries, with the exception of a few cases, do not speak the language of nationality, so the use of nationality language even in the meetings of the national governments will not be used. In addition, the mayor's office makes financial documents, budgets, accounts and the rest through the staff of the financial office. It is important to note that for this purpose the local government will not receive any additional resources, and I would also stress with particular emphasis that, in the event of non-compliance, the local government will not be subject to sanctions. It is not in the interest of the local government to support the proper provision of tasks to local ethnic authorities. This vulnerable situation does not in any way help to emphasise the co-ordinated status of local minority self-governments. In many cases, we see that the good or bad functioning of the local minority self-government depends on the attitude and expertise of the notary leading the mayor's office. Even so, the current legislation is not ideal for the municipal or local minority self-government, and our committee must work to change it in the future. We've been waiting for the SAO's investigations and findings. Despite the fact that the State Audit Office considered these legislative frameworks to be appropriate, we know that it did not propose to amend it in the future. In our view, the legal standards governing this legal relationship are inadequate and we consider it necessary to amend the legislation. Overall, our committee has been informed of the findings of the SAO's audits on local minority self-governments, and continues to require statutory controls. We continue to seek maximum cooperation and to ensure the conditions of legal operation at all levels of the national authorities. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-08-16	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Ritter, a German ethnic advocate, who will present the first sentences of his speech in his mother tongue and then translate it into Hungarian. Here you go.
u2016-06-08-17	Sehr geehrter Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Mr President, Dear House, Dear Mr László Domokos, Allow me, in relation to my Serbian colleague, to express the opinion of our committee, in particular, on the comprehensive inspections carried out by national minority authorities. Before I do this, allow me to refer back to the fact that, following the parliamentary debate on the professional activities of the State Audit Office in 2014, I received a special letter from President László Domokos in which he wrote: "Please allow me to thank you for monitoring and recognising and supporting the efficiency and effectiveness of our institution. In addition, he quoted my sentence that we welcome the SAO audits on the part of the nationalities, because we are convinced that the investigations carried out by an independent, professionally prepared apparatus give an objective and undisputable picture of the operation of the national authorities. Moreover, in addition to the identification of occasional errors, recommendations are made to eliminate them, and they are attached to the action plans, which will provide us with significant professional assistance and support to ensure legal operation. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Thank you, Mr President, for your feedback, and I would like to confirm that we consider the audits of the State Audit Office to be extremely important, with all of this said. We consider it so important that we have postponed several of our major legislative proposals in the last year, such as the law on the rights of nationalities, only to wait for the SAO reports on national minority self-governments. Or, for example, in last year's budget, we did not ask for a single HUF increase in funding to the national minority authorities, since the 16th budget was adopted in spring and the investigations were completed in the autumn, specifically so that the results of the SAO studies could be taken into account. So we looked forward to the SAO tests with great anticipation. However, in the last year, following the conclusion of the SAO studies, and in the light of the summaries prepared for the press, I have to add that there has been some disappointment in us and in the national minority authorities, and some, perhaps not so little, sense of absence. Before I go to that point, I would like to confirm and point out that we agree with the vast majority and 97-98 percent of the state's findings in the detailed reports of the 13 national minority self-governments, and we do not dispute it. What we may or may not fully disagree with or disagree with the national minority authorities is not part of the serious findings of the report. However, we believe that the findings made in the detailed reports are not fully reflected in the summary material for the press. In our view, this is negative for national minority authorities. Let me give you a few examples of what this is all about. Take the press release of the National Government of Germans in Hungary, for which Mr President also said yesterday at the committee meeting that one of the most positive detailed SAO reports on the examination of the German national government was prepared. At the same time, the report for the press highlighted that the establishment and operation of the internal control system was partly regular, and that the financial and asset management of the minority self-government also met the requirements in part. For example, in terms of financial and asset management, the requirements were partly met, based on findings that in 2013, the national government did not prepare a budget concept, in 2010-11 the state body responsible for minorities, in 2012 instead of the state body responsible for national policy, the elementary budget was sent to the MÁK. Either in relation to the management of assets, in respect of the movable property of the German national self-government of Sárok which ceased to exist, the temporary trustee functions were not properly performed or the requirements of the law on transparency were not complied with in two cases. [[10.40]] I would also like to note here that we do not dispute the findings, neither did the German national government, but in the creation of an activity classified with the findings, and in the circumstances, the laws and rules under which this was born have a very serious role to play. For example, the budgetary concept was abandoned in 2013 because there was no fiscal law, because the foundation law was sent back by the President of the Republic for consideration, so that, for example, the budget concept would no longer be prepared. Or the reporting had to be done on the surface of the MÁK, from which only the MÁK could provide data electronically, not to any other third external body. This has also been deleted in 2014 and is perceived as such. Or at the local government of Sárok, we did not deliver curtains and some beer benches to Budapest, we did not rent a room, we did not spend an army of money on it, but we made an agreement with the local government of Sárok to do the preservation and use. I think it is important to say these, because national minority self-governments are given legal frameworks on the one hand and a set of conditions on the other hand in support and infrastructure, which they must comply with. If these two sides are not compatible, then they are obviously unable to meet them. The State Audit Office has clearly stated in its audit programme that, based on the experience of the audit, we are helping good governance by identifying legislative contradictions, shortcomings and proposals to eliminate them. The State Audit Office revealed and saw these problems in the comments and in the detailed report, but did not comment on them. I have to say, after all, there are two things we can do. We have not been helped to change the problems of the legislative environment, so the nationality committee will do so itself. On the other hand, the last period has been closed. I would like to ask the President with respect, because there will be time for you to really look at it until the next run-through, because in the essential and irrelevant distinction, in ensuring proportionality, in summary material for the press, I think that we have not been able to close very well the otherwise very good detailed reports. If we could move forward on that, that would be very helpful. I would like to ask you with respect to this as a constructive criticism, as a helpful intention, since we still consider the SAO reports to be of paramount importance. Despite all these shortcomings and some disappointments, the Committee on Nationality proposes the SAO's annual report to Parliament, of course, for adoption. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit! [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-06-08-18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Roland, Fidesz Group.
u2016-06-08-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The two-minute reaction that our fellow Member Dániel Z. Carpathian said was triggered. I'm sorry you're not in the room, because we can continue this conversation. We are here at the hearing of the decision on the SAO report. Obviously, in the context of advice, he used the opportunity to criticise the most important macro-data, which today characterize Hungary, the whole trend and the civilian governance of Fidesz. He did all this with master slides, as Jobbik usually does. Nevertheless, I would like to make it clear for all of this. In terms of growth, our last known GDP figure from last year was 3.5 percent, before we took over government, minus 6.8 percent before 2010. Although it hurts the sensitivity of the socialists and they call it the past eight years, I call it a description of the facts, yet I would like to indicate that in 2001 it was 3.7, and in 2002 it was 4.5 percent. The issue of public debt: we took over 81 percent of the government debt. Congressman Z. Kárpat said that there has been no change in this and that there has been no reduction. I'm reporting we're approaching 76 percent. In 2002, we handed it over to the socialists by 50 percent, no matter how much it hurts them. General government deficit: minus 9.6%. Since then, for the third to fourth year, we have been able to push Hungary below 3 percent, and we have lifted Hungary from the disgraced bench where the socialists have planted us. He keeps telling us how high the tax burden is. I would like to report to honourable Members that before 2010, the tax burden was higher than 41 percent. We, the civilian government, pushed this back to 38 percent. Then it grew a little and stabilizes at nearly 39. But this is because all our research, our statistical results, international analysts acknowledge it, because the economy has whitened so much that this number has increased nominally, so the stabilisation at 39 percent is very good. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I'll keep going, because there's still a lot of data you need to learn. Thank you very much.
u2016-06-08-20	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members. I give the floor to Mr Béla Turi-Kovács, Fidesz Group.
u2016-06-08-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It was the speeches of my fellow Members that led me to take the floor. Dear House, I think that there is full agreement in that, and it seems that the importance of the SAO and the operation it expresses are one of the pillars of our democratic organisations. Let me remind you that, as early as 1860, when the settlement was absent, Deák and Lónyay discussed the need for a new system within Hungary's constitutional system, a control body that is no longer under royal supervision, so it operates under the supervision of the Parliament in accordance with the constitutional order. I am convinced that the SAO is fulfilling this task. I would also like to remind you that in the debate, too, when President László Domokos was appointed, there were such concerns that this might make the SAO politicised, and its orientation will be shown in a specific direction. Today, these speeches, which we have heard, prove one by one that these negative expectations have not been met. The SAO is doing its job, acting very firmly where it should be, and let me say that this is the other meaning of my speech, within the limits it gives to the law. Mr Cook raised two very important questions. One, this is undoubtedly linked to our voting rights system, the so-called business parties, as he called them, but whatever they may be called; it is undoubtedly parties that make use of the benefits of suffrage in such a way that it will end up being abuse. The SAO did its best. The question here is, and this is what the House needs to be aware of, whether its means are sufficient to enable it to detect all these anomalies, and it is already able to pass on to the investigating authority that the data that has been discovered can be used, whether it has the legal means to do so. I don't believe there are any. Consequently, consideration should be given to the legal instruments with which the SAO is better able to fulfil this task. It's not that big a deal, but it's more irritating than that. We all know that the public is so excited about few things, few things that can upset public opinion to the extent that public money has a kind of outflow that is not only meaningless, but also seems to serve political goals. [[10.50]] Yet, in some cases, the money that was used in this way did not serve political goals, but specifically individual goals. The SAO, in my opinion, has tried to look into this fully; in many cases, it has been able to investigate the cases. But let us be clear: the SAO is not a investigative body, and therefore it is not the task of the investigation, but that it is able to trace and trace the available data to the extent that it already provides the basis for the following procedure. The second item to be mentioned is the control of municipalities; this is an extremely difficult and delicate issue. In Hungary, the municipal system is of a nature which I consider to be one of the solid pillars of the Hungarian constitutional order, which must not be imposed from any direction. The local government, which used to be represented in the county system until the time of 48, is now primarily embodied in local governments. The number of these is extremely high. The possibilities and strength of the SAO, let us say this clearly, should not extend to the extent that they are able to carry out annual checks, so there are targeted checks. In the case of targeted controls, however, there is always the possibility that the aim may be assessed in one way or another, particularly on the opposition side. But if we look honestly and clearly at the checks that the SAO has carried out, then we can say nothing but that the checks were carried out impartially, in a way that could still have been used by the SAO. I think that there may also be legislative tasks in this area. Finally, I would like to say what our fellow Members are also concerned about: the SAO has two priority tasks - I would rather call these targets - which the President has indicated: raising financial awareness and corruption. They're both sensitive issues. The financial awareness is evident in particular because of the anomalies that have occurred so far, and it requires great attention, since it is a question of the fact that those who have been in a serious situation are in this state for a number of reasons. There were many reasons, but also their own financial incompetence. Consequently, very large steps can be taken forward in this area. I would like to add - and don't take this the wrong way, Mr President - that this is primarily an extra commitment from the SAO, but certainly not the basic task. The issue of corruption is different. In the case of corruption, I believe that the SAO has an essential task. For he is impartial, without having to use investigative tools, in such a way that he comes to certain clues in cases that already raise the suspicion of corruption, to which no one else may have such access. Let me give you another historical example of how important this is, and it is not always the magnitude of money that counts. In 1868, a case appeared in the House: no more than 18,000 lapwoods were sold from the forest along Béga. This 18,000 lapwoods were sold without being tendered, as it was customary to do so in those days, and the nearby Timisoara was not notified. Consequently, it caused a serious, large, first only regional and then quite national outrage. Lonyay almost fell into this 18,000 lapwood. Almost because there was a Deák Ferenc who demanded that the case be investigated by the last step. However, the case was resolved in a manner that could not be resolved today, because the minister stood up in the House and said: "Gentlemen, I have finished all the papers in my room." Any Member who wishes to take a look at it wants to get to know him, come in and see who's going in. Everyone said, "We believe the minister." Well, that wouldn't happen today. I think that we should agree that this would not happen in this House: Members would stand in line, even those who have no idea what it is and those who, I think, would know nothing about it in accounting terms, but would do so in the interest of a little scandal. So we're in a different world, no doubt. The harder it is for the SAO to do things. I actually agree with Mr Mengyi on everything because, in principle, he pointed out precisely that the SAO's tasks and opportunities have been examined so far. I myself say that these limits should be extended, because of the impartiality of the SAO, I think all sides have been convinced in recent times. Consequently, the reconnaissance that he has made can be accepted with much greater credibility than many other control institutions. Finally, allow me, Mr President, to make a remark of a somewhat personal nature. It is quite different to speak in this House, to talk about certain things on such a nice, kind day as today, when we are here in this House, in general, almost friendly circle. [[Defiance.]] It is different from the way wolves scream from the right and left at all kinds of speeches, and it is quite different when we listen to each other, and when we hear each other's arguments and their speeches, we may be able to appreciate good thoughts. Dear House, For my part, I support the proposal for a resolution. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-06-08-22	Thank you, Congressman, for your kind speech. Perhaps the chairman of the sitting can identify with the speaker just once at the end of the session. It is indeed a pleasure to have this House argue on the basis of professional arguments. Thank you. Dear Parliament, We now have a speech from Congressman Roland Mengyi, Fidesz Group. You have the floor.
u2016-06-08-23	Thank you very much. I would like to continue my previous speech with some details. We stopped at the tax burden, at the tax burden, and I would like to add numbers to the financing of the debt. It was said from the opposition benches that it was partly neither its method nor its amount that had changed, it was around HUF 1300 billion. I would like to say to my fellow Members that we have started to govern as a civilian government with a debt financing interest burden of between HUF 1200 and 1300 billion, and we are at 900 today. That's a 25% drop. I think it's a huge achievement. One more little thing about that. The ratio of our foreign exchange debt to our foreign exchange debt was above 50 percent in 2010. Since then, it has been constantly falling, just to say another interesting number, because it takes time to cross the economy: in 2000, it was 25 percent - 25 percent - and in 2010 it was over 50 percent and since then it has been on a deep fall. Both growth, public debt and a lack of public finances, tax burden, a reduction in the interest burden on debt financing, a change in the ratio of our foreign exchange debt, this is all a success. This is why all opposition groups and representatives are in a difficult situation when they have to attack this, because it is very difficult to attack these successes without, in fact, the facts and figures supporting them. And we owe all this to the central bank, and partly to civilian governance and active economic policy, which you have so loudly attacked. So please, since our proposal continues to be about the State Audit Office to support the adoption of the proposal for a decision, because it will help us to see these data clearly and clearly, and it will also support us with its controls. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-06-08-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Congressman László György Lukács, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2016-06-08-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In relation to the report of the State Audit Office for the year 2015, I would like to draw attention to health issues and to all the activities that affected health in 2015 with the reports and investigations. We also need to see that in 2015, although the investigations that were formed into reports in 2016 must have started, there are two institutions in the field of health, the National Rescue Service and the Hungarian Medical Chamber, on which the State Audit Office conducted an investigation and prepared its report. Of course, these two reports, not surprisingly, drew attention to all the shortcomings in the health institution system. [[11.00]] In the first place, we can safely conclude that both institutions have identified irregularities, and that in both institutions they have examined a time interval in which persistent and constantly recurring errors and crises have appeared, which is important to us, or that it is important to draw attention to, because they can be learned from them, and, as the President mentioned above, it is possible to return to post-controls on whether there is a change in this field or whether the National Rescue Service has succeeded, where appropriate, or if there will be a legal authority for post-control, such as the Hungarian Medical Chamber's activities, to examine whether the Hungarian Medical Chamber has been able to meet the shortcomings that have been examined or identified. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] With regard to the National Ambulance Service, I would like to draw attention to the fact that there was a constant change and an increased organizational system and provision of tasks during the period under consideration, since in 2012 there was an increase in the provision of tasks, which, by the way, led to an increase in staff, i.e. organizational growth. However, the irregularities between 2008 and 2013, I think it was correctly established that there were indeed serious shortcomings in the design and operation of the control system. In particular, the State Audit Office drew attention to the serious nature of the founding or maintenance errors. This is also important because we now see that both the founder and the Ministry of Supervisory Rights are often occupied with themselves or with the transformation of the background institutions, or with the establishment of their own place in the ministerial structure, thereby destroying the possibilities to exercise investigations, internal investigations or supervisory rights with sufficient efficiency. Therefore, a follow-up check, especially its founders - whether called the Ministry of Health, Nefmi, EMMI, or now EMMI - will be particularly important to correct errors, since we see that the requirements for the performance of the public mission or the efficient management of resources not only did not meet the requirements during the period under consideration, but given the events of the past period, the National Rescue Service may still not fully meet, despite the fact that its management always strives for the best or tries to bridge the scarce opportunities. What is also a warning, and very important exclamation marks must be added, not only was there been irregularities in financial management or failure to comply with the regularity of the organisation, but also the specific point in which the State Audit Office drew attention, if you would like, to underfunding - because liquidity shortages or liquidity and solvency problems cannot be called otherwise - as the body cannot carry out its task from the resources needed to perform its task, which is not necessarily an internal management, but also a maintenance deficiency much more extensive than that, so a follow-up check here can be useful. With regard to the management of assets, I believe that, despite the fact that the SAO has made its findings, it has drawn attention to problems here too, but I think that there may be some improvement in asset management compared to the period under consideration. Of course, it will be particularly important to look at whether the new rescue stations or new assets managed by EU projects and developments are indeed properly managed. Perhaps not only a follow-up, but also a re-check because of the change in the situation. Of course, the only reason I note this carefully is because we know precisely that wherever a well-intentioned State Audit is carried out, the audited body is not happy with it, as it is causing a considerable disruption in its daily operation and has just enough people to carry out its day-to-day tasks, and we know that an SAO inspection is always an increased burden on the body. So this is how proper farming can eventually be forced out or done. As far as the Hungarian Medical Chamber is concerned, the Hungarian Medical Chamber has a specific public-law situation, since we are talking about a public body which it is obviously only able to examine and examined by the State Audit Office if it receives public finance. There was a period between 2010 and 2012 when MOK received public finance support, and it was therefore appropriate and justified to examine its management. We have also witnessed a public debate here, as the Hungarian Chamber of Medicine has also formulated its own criticisms of the findings of the State Audit Office, in relation to both the Presidency and the national office, as well as the criticisms and opinions of regional organisations, and has defended the operation of the Hungarian Chamber of Medicine in its typical combatant manner. On the whole, however, it can be concluded that there have indeed been shortcomings in both territorial organisations and in the system of registration, organisational and operational regulations and rules of procedure of the national agency. I believe that in today's administrative operation, regardless of whether it is an organisation with a specific local government, it is important, however, to have a transparent and well-managed organizational and operational code for everyday operation regardless, since this is the alpha and omega of their own operation, so this criticism seems justified. It is certainly worth noting that there was indeed a great lag in territorial organisations, since one third of them did not have any valid organisational and operational regulations. I believe that the post-control is particularly justified in this case, because the important role of the Medical Chamber as a public body can be strengthened, if the criticisms expressed by the State Audit Office have been observed and eliminated, as this shows that the Hungarian Medical Chamber has accepted the criticisms on the one hand, and has acted to improve its own composition, so that a greater, if you like, not only public confidence, but also a greater confidence in membership, which is a huge problem in any such municipal or public body operation, since the Chamber legitimacy is a permanent problem not only with doctors, but we could talk about the Chamber of Lawyers or any other chamber where membership often does not feel the Chamber of its own, which is intended to represent its interests as a representative organisation. The other very important issue - and this will lead to some level of this year, 2016 and far be it from me to advise the State Audit Office, which has carried out its work thoroughly and in accordance with the professional guidelines - is that it is essential to focus on health institutions in order to examine and strengthen the view that there should be as much transparency as possible in relation to the management of health institutions. In my view, transparency is necessary because the current institutional health structure has undergone a continuous, permanent transformation, which was, by the way, an ownership, a maintenance transformation, in which the system has wasted a great deal of power, that energy has often gone out of control of these transformations, finding their place afterwards, and that the proper, proper and, if you like, effective functioning has always been the last priority. This is why, on the one hand, in order to see that these health institutions - be they inpatient establishments, national institutions, or even background institutions that help the government work - have been able to meet the subsequent burden during their transformation, they are able to manage properly now and to perform properly, it would be necessary, if you would like, to have a greater presence and control by the Court of Auditors. And I said transparency in this area precisely because transparency and the full transparency of their management could create confidence not only for politics or for those who are critical of the system, not only for policy politicians, but also for those who are interested in politics, but also for the general public, because in many cases they themselves do not know what difficulties a hospital faces, how management can solve it there. If people had a transparent management in mind about an institution - whether it is the hospital in Marcal, the hospital in Siófok, or the institutions in Nyíregyháza or even the county - it would be much easier for them to understand the burdens on the institution's shoulders, and much easier to understand what kind of health care they receive, or how their health care or accessibility will be ruined by the operation of the system itself. I also know that this year, although I cannot add up its number, perhaps from Zala County through Csongrád County to the Bács-Kiskun County, there have been reports by the State Audit Office of several hospitals that have learned the lessons of the past period, if you will. [[11.10]] Although this will appear in the next year's report and we can discuss it here on the plenum, it is clear that there is a very serious pressure on the institutions, there are very serious management deficiencies, which in many cases are inconsistent transfers of mandates, and often a complete lack of conflict of interest rules. This does not necessarily mean an act of corruption; it simply means that the hospital, the management of the institution, did not have the energy to operate them properly, and all of this destroys the management of health institutions, which are otherwise very difficult and stretched out, and thus the healing activity in it. So I say this with good intentions that not only the legislator would need transparency to be better created, but also the SAO in this way, as it has begun with the investigations, must be a partner, so that we can fully, taxatically, review the economic performance of the whole structure and its operation, which are the elements in which a very critical mass of money is flowing in the health care sector, because there is a great need for these funds. On the other hand, the SAO will not be in an easy position, because there is another transformation on the doorstep, which is also a result which will be detrimental to farming and the exercise of employer's rights, I think, just because it always focuses on itself, the system focuses on transformation. And this is the introduction of the Chancellery system, which, if my assumptions are correct, is being discussed today by the government. So this will be another factor that, of course, makes future farming difficult to predict. But, of course, the SAO will be able to draw conclusions on the management of the past period. So I continue to encourage - although I note once again here that no one is happy with an SAO inspection and no one is happy to be researched for his regularity, but I certainly encourage the State Audit Office - that health institutions and here not only the basic care or outpatient or inpatient care institutions, but also the background institutions, appear necessary. This, I believe, will only improve the functioning of the system if the shortcomings in it are identified and a report is drawn up on this, if the institutions do so. They will be lost, or may be lost, by those inefficient, although that is a rather unhungarian term, but by the fact that they are often cancers of health care. I therefore urge the State Audit Office to address these health institutions, as this can also be a section of complete transformation that can help to manage health more effectively and thus manage public funds more effectively. I wanted to mention one more thing, but I will not go further on this point: it was indeed a painful point that the findings concerning previous deficiencies in financial supervision were made possible, and there was an opportunity for painful broker scandals - although it was not possible to see them - such as the Kun-Mediator-broker scandal in Karcag, which also showed that the financial supervision system was not at the top of the situation, but, if you like, tacitly contributed to all the hogs that allowed decades of financial fraud. This is something that we can safely say from the conclusion that it really was, however, these unfortunate cases have taken place. This must be avoided in the future. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-08-26	Welcome. Thank you, too, and before I give you a two-minute speech, on your behalf, I welcome the students and teachers of the Evangelical School of Péterfy, Győr. I'm glad you're here. Good afternoon. Now, let's get back to work. Congressman István Józsa, MSZP, asked for the floor in two minutes. Here you go.
u2016-06-08-27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that more people have already told me about the excellent work that the State Audit Office is doing in the area of controlling the movement of public funds. So I would base my comment on this, to encourage the State Audit Office to monitor the movement of public funds through the channels of the Hungarian National Bank and its public foundations. Because you may have been in doubt earlier, that this is public money or not, here in Parliament, an attempt by the Fidesz faction to prove that what has been transferred from the National Bank as public money to its foundations has lost its character in public money. In person, Prime Minister Kósa tried to convince the Hungarian public that his public finances were disappearing. Well, the money's gone, but his public finances aren't gone. So I would urge the State Audit Office here in the parliamentary debate, namely the former Fidesz President, to move beyond his own shadow and to follow up on how public money moves in the foundations of the National Bank. Does it fully comply with the principles of efficiency, transparency and other independence of public funds? Is it not possible to get to family members, or might it be for business that is already of private interest? Does the Hungarian National Bank not fall, in a macroeconomic approach, into the act of monetary support prohibited by its foundations in the European Union? So I'm sure you're prepared to do this professionally, and I'm just asking you to do it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-06-08-28	Thank you very much. Speaking as a normal speaker, Congressman Csaba Gyüre, Jobbik, next. Here you go.
u2016-06-08-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to touch on a small issue, mentioned by President László Domokos, which is the problem of the parties who started the election, so to speak, because, according to the legislation, there was a considerable amount of state support available for this. A couple could collect hundreds of millions of forints if they put up candidates in every constituency. This is not the problem, and this may be the case, but Mr President has also mentioned that there is a serious problem with this control or uncontrollability, or with the sanction of the person who hired it for a different purpose than was originally intended by the legislator. My fellow Member Béla Turi-Kovács also mentioned this problem, in which he praised the State Audit Office for doing a good job in this discovery. What he had the opportunity to do within the legal framework, he did, and here President László Domokos said that there was a problem. I would like to draw attention here to the responsibility that the legislator himself, the Parliament, has a very serious responsibility for introducing some kind of amendment, a new law, a new regulation that would remove the possibility for parties to be set up specifically for the purpose of receiving hundreds of millions of HUF state aid in the future. It is questionable whether it was one of their aims to get into the Hungarian National Assembly or not, or whether it was only intended to obtain this support. This, I think, should be changed in any case, and the Parliament should do so, but it is very important that attention is drawn to this. And whether they wanted to get into the National Assembly or not, we don't know that, but while we're at it, let me mention that today's sitting could be a festive session here in the National Assembly, where these parties, who are here, got into it, because today, for the first time in 120 years, the National Assembly met within these walls. 8 June 1896 is the date when Parliament could meet for the first time here, in this beautiful building, which we may say is the most beautiful Parliament in the world, and I believe that all Hungarians can be proud of this within the borders, across the borders, in the Carpathian Basin and throughout the Earth. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-06-08-30	Thank you very much. Thank you in particular, on behalf of the Parliament as a whole, for raising awareness and for the proper commemoration, Member. Greetings. Now we have a two-minute speech. Congressman István Józsa, please, MSZP.
u2016-06-08-31	[[Sound.]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to continue the call for a public financial audit to the President of the State Audit Office. I would like to explain why the MET gas business, which is part of István Garancsi's interests, is public money and why it would be necessary for the State Audit Office to check the approximately 150 billion public money that has been transferred to the benefit of MET instead of crashing at the Hungarian Electricity Works. [[11.20]] I don't think it's necessary to justify that MMV Zrt. activity of the SAO... [[For signal:]] Is it loud? [[On signal, the congressman will put his microphone on.]] I felt very loud about my comment, but maybe it was because I wasn't wearing the microphone. So, please check MET, because MET was able to import cheaply acquired Austrian gas by assigning it to the HAG pipeline by a decree, he handed it over to the main MVM Zrt. on the other side of the border, and he brought it across the border with his ministerial license. Of course, the Ministerial authorisation was issued for a public purpose, so that there would be cheap gas in the strategic gas storage and cheap gas for district heating plants, after which MVM Zrt. would be incomprehensible in an incomprehensible manner in view of the lack of professional preparation. He once again sold HUF 2 profit to MET Hungary at that time, and MET Hungary passed it on with some HUF 30-32 profit. Please check this out. Thank you. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-06-08-32	I would now like to take the floor of a Member asking for a normal word, but I must ask Mr István Józsa if he means it this way. If you're serious, get up and go on.
u2016-06-08-33	I'm very serious. [[Defiance.]] All the more so because in my speech I wanted to separate the two-minute reactions, i.e. the reactions made in the debate and the contribution of the State Audit Office as a whole. So, in the context of a normal comment, I would like to give professional appreciation to the preparation and work of the professional staff led by the former Fidesz Member, and, nevertheless, they are doing a high-quality job. [[Defiance.]] The problem is in there. [[András Tállai: Ridiculous...]] [[Defiance.]] The problem appears (András Tállai: Ridiculous...) in the direction in which these control plans are moving. Because if you were to go beyond what color you had previously represented and listen to your professionally prepared colleagues, not to the legal advisors who would be willing to report me (Development). , one of the Parliament's organs has announced to the Member of Parliament that he intends to violate your reputation here in Parliament, which sounded that part of the statements made in the framework of the investigation of the Hungarian National Bank are capable of detracting the authority of the National Bank. Now, I have withdrawn this; I say that part of it is not suitable, the other part is suitable. So you have such consultants, the Presidential Legal Assistance Department, who commissioned you, I don't want to call you by your name, because I'm going to be re-arraigned by your noodle lawyer. [[Defiance.]] at a fake address [[He's laughing.]] I didn't know, because I wasn't at that address, that was an occasional address for the election office, so I didn't check, I don't want to report you for misappropriation of the State Audit Office's money, and without legal basis, you paid this lawyer's attorney's attorney's fee for a wrong job, so I don't think that's typical for most of your staff, and I'm also sure that you personally, as president, don't encourage me to do that. 'Cause I really hope you're not one of the Finkelstein students that your prime minister has been practicing here, that he doesn't answer to Árpád Habony, he doesn't answer to the baby; you know, in football, they say he's not looking at the ball, he's looking at the baby. If you can't kick the ball, you can't answer the question asked to Árpád Habony, you will try to kick the newly elected group leader who asked the Árpád Habony question. So I really hope that you guys are still watching the ball, and you're not just trying to cut up the dolls on the field. From the framework of your audits, I would like to highlight the audit chapter on public procurement procedures, which is a surprising number: in 33 cases - this is 92 percent of the cases examined - it has been found that you have detected an unlawful omission of the procurement procedure - you, the State Audit Office - for more than HUF 1 billion. The infringement has been found in the appeals procedures initiated in the event of public procurement irregularities almost without exception, and in many cases fines have also been imposed. So you've done a good job in this area, too. It's just, what's the case that's been investigated, which shows 92 percent that there's an irregularity? I know you're not the ones who impose the fine, you're just proposing to proceed with legal proceedings, but these procedures have established an infringement, so the sad situation that you have revealed has been confirmed by the competent control authority. So I would like to suggest that in these cases, which represent the public use of the National Bank, primarily the management of its foundations, which are the MET gas business in the Hungarian National Asset Manager, because if the Ministerial Decree put in place for public purposes had indeed served a public purpose, the result would have been either at MVM Zrt. or in the case of public benefit, such as district heating plants or strategic gas storage. But similarly, it would also be good to check the use of public funds by government agencies, including those Quaestor funds that are somehow transferred from the government sphere, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and elsewhere to Quaestor, the Hungária Asset Manager, so they are to a high-risk company that is not legally allowed to go to. So it is also odd that he has billions of dollars in reserves within the budget, which he said would be cost-effective, but even if he has such funds temporarily, it would be good for the State Audit Office to enforce this rule; it could only be placed in a secure sovereign debt or in products of the National Bank that constitute a short-term deposit. So I would very much like for your next investigations to cover why the Prime Minister, also taking on the burden of insider information, should give the Ministry of Foreign Affairs a special order to take back the money at Quaestor, and what was the background of this, how the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' money could have gotten into such a high-risk operation. So I still believe that the State Audit Office is trying to do its job impartially, but I think that we need greater determination both from the President and from the collaborators of the programme. But if the President gives instructions to those questions that have been raised here in the parliamentary debate - because you are the employer of the Hungarian Parliament, so you are a body directly subordinate to the Hungarian Parliament, independent of everyone else - as has been said here, set up their investigation programmes for these matters independently of anyone else, please find out what concerns the Hungarian public in the field of public money. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-06-08-34	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[András Tállai: Two minutes, Józsa! Push it! There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The joint general debate is closed. [[11.30]] I will ask Mr László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, if he wishes to reply. [[For signal:]] Mr. President, please.
u2016-06-08-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Thank you for your input. The Members seem to be really turning our reports around and knowing their content, and many of the speeches have even tried to bring to my attention what they do not contain. Yes, there are countless circles, a vast area that must be covered by our control. Obviously, we try to respond to this year after year, i.e. with minor or greater shortcomings, because those areas are either not clear enough about how we explained their control, or they seem really hopeless in the first place, at least in today's circumstances, to control coverage. In particular, lots outside the general government sector have been classified by many - foundations, parties and campaign funds, or private companies - which, in terms of how much and how they are affected, I think, on the one hand, set the limits by law and, on the other hand, can be estimated at hundreds of thousands in number and actuality. In the case of a number of potentially private companies or individuals, I suggest, in itself, that, for example, the law provides for the possibility of checking, for example, as a waiver of public funds, but, in particular, in cases that are different, there are specific restrictive options. Of course, by law, you have control over what you allow the SAO and how to control it. There was also a methodological proposal from László Szakács. There are issues in which the SAO can only carry out compliance checks, such as parties or campaign control, but the monetary policy of the National Bank is taboo for the Court of Auditors not only in Hungary, but everywhere in the world. I understand you're proposing this, but we're going to go under the law, and we've done it before. An example of this is, of course, the Foundations of the National Bank, for which you have made sure that the Court of Auditors will check in April 16. Of course, accordingly, as I have said several times, the preparations for this are under way. There are clearly some who are already declaring results and draw conclusions on regularity or irregularity. Apparently, according to the news, it is more than HUF 200 billion, and Dániel Z. Carpathian indicated that it is a huge money. We agree, but it does not hurt to know that the balance sheet total of the National Bank is 11 600 billion HUF. So it is a huge amount, which is also controlled by an auditor and a supervisory board. I would therefore not claim it, and I would like to draw attention to this fact that this is not an uncontrolled area, but only for the Court of Auditors to verify it. I am currently able to classify the National Bank as controlled, and I can also say that I cannot fundamentally object to the regularity of the management of the National Bank, and I cannot draw from experience that there are fundamental problems, either on the basis of the auditor or the supervisory board or on the basis of our own audit experience. As far as foundations beyond the National Bank are concerned, I am obviously unable to do so, since we have not yet carried out an audit; as I have indicated, we will return to this. But once the issues surrounding the National Bank have been identified, it may be important to check the financial system, since you are the ones who made the decision to have a concentrated financial supervision integrated into the central bank instead of an independent institution. What we are currently seeing is that, after the audit of the national banking management in the year 14 is under way, including the audit of the organisation of the financial system, in which, last year, we completed the audit of the State Supervisory Board of Financial Institutions for five years, we have actually seen that there was much to improve both in the audit and in the operation. I can tell you that in advance, but our report will be published in a few weeks' time that there have been significant changes, so it was justified to pay more attention to this area within the framework of law. In addition, the National Bank has launched a very significant audit change in which the methodology and technology of the audit must also be changed. I believe that it is necessary to strengthen risk-based controls, and I have drawn particular attention to this in the Economic Committee. I have indicated to the Economic Committee that it will be worth considering the full methodological overview of the Hungarian control system today, as there have been completely new technological opportunities, new methodological approaches, whether for the use of statistical tools or for other areas. So I have to say, yes, the comments on brokers, the duties on the protection of investors' money, I think, at all times, that the central bank should treat as a priority, in particular, as a responsible control body, but at least as much as the State Court of Auditors and, of course, Parliament. With regard to the changes, it is appropriate to return to this area year after year, although not required by the law, but the Court of Auditors will return year after year to audit the National Bank. I would also like to point out, however, that the State Audit Office has started to monitor the investment activities of brokerage firms. These reports have not yet been prepared, and have not been made public. This is a major issue that can be addressed to hundreds of actors. We are now looking at whether we really need to go to every location or how we will have to approach it. Based on the first experience, we can say that there was usually a problem with these brokers' investments using financial intermediaries, that they typically did not respect so-called internal controls, the financial key controls, which, of course, are a matter of bagatellizing in many cases, in many ways, that this is not so important. This is true, of course, that in many cases a decent person, decent, well-intentioned operation, may be sufficient, but since it is public money, it is not certain that everyone is competent, for example, to invest. We have experienced this in many cases that notaries, Registrars who have made decisions on investments, recorded investments that do not have a financial degree, or that there has been no professional work at all that would have been made on the basis of a decision. So I really think that it will be necessary to think more carefully about how much of these so-called investment-type activities can be linked to a professional requirement for someone to deal with it. But I'd go further on this thing. If the municipalities have already been mentioned by many, we see that in many cases it is not a notary with financial qualifications who, for example, draw up a balance sheet. I could also challenge or at least recommend a legislative environment that, of course, the number one leaders do not have an economic education, such as universities, hospital managers, when these issues have already emerged, while in fact making a responsible decision on financial matters as the number one leader. We raised this issue as a renewal of state management. The government also responded positively to this last year. I think we need to think about this more widely. As far as universities are concerned, it has already been done. As regards the others, it should also be considered that the combined impact of financial responsibility and expertise and professional responsibility and expertise can be wider than the public financial sector, so as to ensure adequate security not only in terms of regular and regular, but also in terms of effective, efficient, economical and practical use of money. [[11.40]] I think that everyone who can comment on this issue has been selling on a piece of paper. This requires changes, moving forwards. Some of these changes have been made and some of them have to be continued in the renewal of state management. I would particularly like to answer questions in which you indicated that you had not been examined and that you had been examined. It is important that it has been said with regard to the Pension Reform and Debt Management Centre that it is recommended to the SAO's attention. Yeah, the SAO was watching him. Each year, in the course of the closing accounts, he checked it from a legitimate point of view, and in the context of our methodological renewal, the organisations involved in the parliamentary accounts were included in the accounts, and we deal with it. Another question is that there is something that Parliament is actually discussing in five years, but there are some matters that we are discussing, for example, while we will be publishing the closing report only on 1 September. It's a 25-year-old routine. We just want to indicate that we perceive this demand, and on our part we have made the decision that there are more than 20 organisations with reporting obligations to Parliament, not necessarily in plenary, but in committee meetings; we include their financial statements in the accounts every year. In the past, it was not always because it was not necessarily included in the sample due to its size, or it simply did not include it in the absence of capacity. I can now say that last year, again this year, we will give a consolidated opinion on whether they are reliable or not, so we will address this in our final accounts published on 1 September from a fundamental regularity point of view. Several people commented on campaign funds. I also believe that this is an area that has brought a great deal of novelty to the campaign period of 14 and that has a public financial implications. We can say, as stated in the report, that, for example, issues related to advertisements have been very widespread with the power of novelty, as regulated by the Parliament. We were able to live up to that. There is no objection to it at all, since it was done in a controlled, systematic, transparent way. That is why we have said that some areas related to campaign financing or campaign operation have improved, because there has been a concrete change in legislation and it has been complied with. We felt less reassuring indeed to those parties... - but let us not forget: at the beginning of any party is not known in advance whether it will get into the National Assembly or not, it will be decided by the electorate. There were some parties who hoped to get in, and they didn't get in, and some of them didn't trust him that much, but they did. So this is a much more complex issue, and I do not believe that the State Court of Auditors should take a position on this. All I am saying is that it has created equal opportunities for everyone in advance, that the central budget has provided money for both individual and list start-ups, in order to ensure - at least their justification and your justification in this regard - not so much for sponsors, external, opaque financiers, but for regularity within the framework of public funds and public finances. I would like to stress that obviously we cannot impose a criterion of effectiveness on the use of such campaign money or a criterion of efficiency or expediency. They didn't. But in the law, if they do, we will enforce it. If, therefore, it is linked to a ceiling, a threshold of effectiveness, where, for example, it has to be repaid - this has already been done before in the law - then obviously we have established and will determine this, so I can say that in these cases, if the law sets criteria, we can obviously pay attention to it during the audit. As far as lawlessness is concerned, the SAO is quite a lot, if I remember correctly, to report 9 or raise suspicions, which is specifically lawlessness. There were issues involving tax offices and ex-A.D.A.'s office. Some people, for example, didn't give any data. He did not consider it public money given by the state, and obviously we, on the basis of your legal authority, have also turned to the prosecution in such a case. These cases are not closed, but they are in the process, so I think that if this is completed, it will be worth reviewing this issue; the State Audit Office of Hungary has this experience, analyses and consultation, if required. Obviously, I do not necessarily think that we need to initiate a change in campaign funding, but our reports can provide a basis, either in committees or in other public areas, for this to be considered. We will contribute to this if there is a need for it. I wanted to address specifically the issues relating to municipal control. So, first of all, I would like to dissipate the misconception that perhaps Dániel Z. Kárpát's observation was that the SAO cannot access all the municipalities, and then it is not controlled. I would like to call on Hungary to have a three-line control system, in which we have the so-called internal audit, the so-called external, supervisory, government, treasury, government or even audit, and then the Court of Auditors comes. So this system operates through extremely complex control systems. There are sometimes shortcomings in this, for example, that there is a lack of internal control. This is even justified in doing so, but in this case, due to the lack of control defence lines before us, the SAO reveals a lot more problems and experiences a lot more problems. I can say that basically we see problems where the first two lines of protection do not work, there is no control before us, and then obviously the Court of Auditors is no longer able to cover the whole area. Therefore, we are basically choosing on a risk basis, and the risk selection proves that there is certainly a reason to go to check. So there are very few local governments or even institutions that we go to just to make sure that everything is okay at the end. This is not okay for us to check this way, but this is the Hungarian public situation at the moment. In fact, the methodological step forward would be to be able to carry out a so-called full audit based on representativeness. I think that this is the future, and that is also possible. The IT conditions are there, but what I think is very important is what I think Mr. Congressman has indicated - Dr. György Lukács - that they are not very happy when an inspector appears on a site, because it appears as a problem for the inspector in many cases, but when we usually come, the end is always what has been said in the case of several speakers, let us say, even ethnic advocates, if I quote Alexov Lyubomir and Imre Ritter, they ultimately take comfort that we were there, and usually a change appears. Therefore, in most of the subjects where we have checked, I can say everywhere that the national minority authorities, or the National Bank or campaign funds, or the National Rescue Service, Medical Chamber, National Supervisory Authority of Financial Institutions, are the successor of the Central Bank, and I don't even know how many places what is happening, and I am encouraged to follow up. I can tell you that there's a plan of action everywhere. The action plans are there with us, and they go through one type of risk analysis, and most of the time, we have to analyse the risk due to ordering, but basically when the deadline for the action plan is finished, then the Court of Auditors will also appear in the framework of a follow-up audit, and we will examine not only the promises, the action plan, but also the actual implementation. I think that Dániel Z. Carpathian began to push a very delicate question, this vulnerability. In addition, I would add that the integration of the Hungarian economy or the Hungarian state, let us say, into European integration, but it could be in the North Atlantic integration or even within the global framework. [[11.50]] So I think it is very important to consider - I do not think it should be as the President of the Court of Auditors, but I would just like to point out that I want to respond to this issue - of course, the independence of a country is extremely valuable, but its vulnerability is a danger. There's no argument here. But what you have to see is that in every process, in terms of public finances or farming, we pay, and in other cases, there is a profit, so a losing position is a vulnerable position. We therefore consider it appropriate that Hungary, Hungary, the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian public finance spenders, be part of the integrity and integration alliances with a win-win situation, and separate, we would not say that Hungary should be a fully independent state in the sea of the countries, but, of course, financial financing must be seen if we have to go out to the financial markets every year in a vulnerable state or in a tight state of money, then the situation of those who do not have any other room for manoeuvre can be detrimental. That is why I think - and here I can account for the fact that we also perceive that the examination of financial financing has become a central issue since the financial crisis, and we are currently conducting an audit at the State Debt Management Centre - it is extremely important how much currency, how much forint-based, how much maturity it has, because a two-and-a-half-year, renewable total government debt is a terrible vulnerability. Too high a foreign exchange ratio means vulnerability. I can tell you about these reduction processes, but that doesn't mean that this addiction doesn't exist, but the proportion of that doesn't matter what it is, and the processes go in the right direction. We can say that it is going in the right direction, but there is more to be done to reduce our exposure to financial debt. I think this is a principle of the national economy, it must be of fundamental interest. I want to put a misunderstanding right here. Many people have mixed it up and sometimes comment on it in a strange way: the basic law requires a reduction in the indicator of public debt, not the sovereign debt. Of course, it would be best if the public debt was also reduced in absolute terms, but the current constitutional framework, which was created by the Parliament in 2011 and is valid from 12, was defined above in the ratio of government debt and below in the ratio of GDP, counter/naming, which was indicated by Roland Mengyi. It is now somewhere between 76 and 77 percent, but it can move by several percentage points within the year, but overall there is a declining trend in Hungary today. There is, of course, a legitimate economic debate about the proportion of people who should be reduced, who would like to do so more quickly, who are slower; this is not just a decision, but there is also a consequence. Obviously, the faster the public debt is reduced, the less room for manoeuvre is left for the economy through taxes and the size of the budget. However, it is important to know that the primary balance of the Hungarian budget, i.e. its operating balance, has been positive since 12:00. So the Hungarian state, which is currently overspended, in which there is a deficit, is essentially due to the interest burden, so it is of the utmost importance that this amount of around 900 billion should be even smaller now, while at the same time our vulnerability to public debt should be controlled and reduced. I would like to respond to the two minority advocates that, yes, I can confirm that the experience of our local minority self-government controls is that irregularities are not essentially attributable to the bodies of national authorities, but are essentially caused by the errors and shortcomings of the offices serving them. Here it is important to consider how economical and efficient it is to do this in a different way. I said that at the moment, when it comes to a mass of less than one million, typically in a single municipality a year, to involve an external player who would be involved on a market basis or elsewhere, this would be considered costly. So obviously, the political decision can be everything, so if there is more vulnerability than is worth sacrificing for this money, we have not looked at it in this sense, so it is a decision that goes beyond us. The fact that Imre Ritter drew attention to at the committee meeting is that there are more than 130 institutions that are held by national governments, where hundreds of millions of forints or billions can be held by national or local ethnic authorities. That's another question. It is clear here that economies of scale will continue to be examined under the operating framework, but I think that in any case vulnerability as a fact is an illegal situation. If this is an illegal situation, it should not be treated as a financial issue, but as a matter of law and law enforcement. So I can therefore suggest, where there is such an improbability, that there is a legislative framework to prevent this. That is what we do if we experience it, turn to the authority or office that has to do with it. With regard to national minority self-governments, I would just like to say that there was a reason why we went to check, it was justified, the action plans were completed, and we took note of it. As far as we know, implementation is in full swing. So we consider this area to be pursuing a law-abiding behaviour, and we have no reason to point out specifically that it is a more disadvantaged or worse functioning public financial area. I think it is still important that nationalities and communities, which is unique in the world, that this is the way in which nationality is organised in Hungary, should also be surrounded by trust, which is what we consider to be important. We don't want to overdo the audit, but on the other hand, we draw attention to the framework for regular settlement with money, but if they hadn't, I wouldn't have highlighted it separately, because there is a more serious public financial situation here. What I am thanking you for in particular, I see that everyone has confirmed that both integrity, prevention against corruption and action to reduce risks have been acknowledged. I think it is very important that Parliament is in this way positive about solving this challenge. On the other hand, that the development of financial culture is an important and, as I said, also treated as a macroeconomic risk, but the support at individual level that the Court of Auditors is trying to provide is recognised. I wanted to thank you for this on behalf of my colleagues and myself, because indeed, this is a unique type of advisory work, not ordinary in everyday life. Thank you for your comments, comments and questions, both in support and in raising awareness. Which I could not reply to one by one, and then in writing - it was said that not everyone usually answers in writing, we try to reply in writing, and we will do so during the summer. [[Dr. István Józsa: And to a good title!]] I would also like to thank my colleagues for their work, because indeed, the entire Court of Auditors is the joint work that I have been able to report. On the other hand, for the leaders of the auditors and for you, who were partners, they are key co-operating partners in making use of the Court's reports. What we see is that we are experiencing a continuous public financial improvement where the Court of Auditors has checked, and I can say more, because indeed, because of the advisory functions, we are also experiencing improvements in the public financial situation in places where the SAO has not yet been, only knowing what kind of control it has carried out in the neighbouring municipality, the neighbouring institution, and the responsible management has already begun to correct the shortcomings that it has found that it has not waited for the Court of Auditors to be there. So what I can say is that I think there are good developments in the Hungarian budgetary situation. [[12.00]] There's one more thing I've been looking at here. I'm not sure I told you. We are considering the control of all state-owned companies - I am telling István Józsa separately - because we have never checked so many companies, and this is now taking place. [[Dr. István Józsa: Very good.]] Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-08-36	Thank you very much. In the spirit of this peaceful friendship, I would like to ask Mr Mengyi Roland, Vice-President of the Economic Commission, if he wishes to respond. [[Dr. Roland Mengyi: I don't wish. Thank you.]] Good. Dear Parliament, It is therefore possible to submit amendments on Thursday at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, A joint debate on the proposal to announce the Protocol on Montenegro's accession to the North Atlantic Treaty follows. The government referral is T/10934. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that according to the House Rules adopted, a total of 20 minutes for opening and closing proceedings, 6 minutes for speaking by the Legislative Committee, 3 minutes for presenting the minority opinion, 20-20 minutes for speaking by the political groups, 3 minutes for speaking by independent Members. I now give the floor to Mr. István Arrowmaker, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, author. Here you go.
u2016-06-08-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, As a neighbouring state to the Western Balkans, Hungary is particularly interested in maintaining the political and economic stability and security of each country. The government remains convinced that the stability and security of the Western Balkans can most effectively be achieved through the European and Euroatlantic integration of the countries in the region. It has therefore actively and consistently supported and supported the integration and reform efforts of the countries of the region, including their NATO membership aspiration, as a priority element of its foreign policy, external economic and security policy. When Montenegro became independent, it set its full membership in NATO and in the European Union as a political priority in May 2006. Hungary has tried to contribute to these efforts not only in political terms, but also in practice, primarily through the transfer of its own integration experiences. Montenegro has made remarkable progress in building and strengthening democratic structures and developing the economy during the first decade of its independence. The country is now one of the most stable countries in the Western Balkans region, which maintains orderly, continuously developing relations with countries both in the region and outside the region. The invitation to open accession negotiations at the NATO Foreign Ministers' meeting in December 2015 has been a worthy and entirely appropriate recognition of its efforts and achievements over the past 10 years. The bilateral relations between Hungary and Montenegro have undergone significant and unbroken development over the last decade. Economic cooperation is increasing, and the country offers significant and attractive ground for Hungarian investments. Political and security policy relations are also regular and fruitful. Our relationship is particularly friendly, it is not subject to any dispute. From the Montenegro side, the multifaceted Hungarian support for integration and reform efforts is highly appreciated at all levels. Montenegro's accession to NATO is hoped to begin a new chapter next year, opening up new, more favourable perspectives for our bilateral relations. However, the realisation of Montenegro's membership is a positive and encouraging message for the whole Western Balkans region. It will strengthen the stability and security of this region at a time when it is threatened by a series of serious security challenges. It is enough to think of illegal migration or international terrorism in the context of ethnic tensions that remain in the region. With Montenegro's accession, both coasts of the Adriatic Sea are now under the umbrella of the Alliance. Its accession also strengthens NATO, as the alliance is expanding with another Member State committed to its shared values, with its potential to contribute to the strengthening of international peace and security. On the basis of these, it is in our interest to ensure that Montenegro's accession to NATO is achieved smoothly and as soon as possible. This requires the ratification and ratification of the Protocol on Montenegro's accession to the North Atlantic Treaty, signed by NATO Foreign Ministers on 19 May 2016, within the foreseeable time horizon by the Member States of the Alliance and Montenegro. Montenegro may become a full member of NATO once the ratification process has been successfully completed. The enlargement of NATO, support for the Euroatlantic integration efforts of the countries in our immediate and wider neighbourhood, and reaffirm Hungary's commitment to the development of bilateral relations with Hungary and Montenegro would mean a ratification by the Hungarian Parliament of Montenegro's Protocol of Accession. For this reason, on behalf of the Government, I call on this House to adopt a bill for the publication of the protocol on Montenegro's accession to the North Atlantic Treaty. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-08-38	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you that if you wish to speak up to the closing words, you have roughly 15 minutes. Dear Parliament, As there was no proposal to amend the bill, the Legislative Committee did not discuss the proposal. We now have speeches from Members. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there are 20 minutes per faction, and the independent Members have 3 minutes - there are none here. [[Defiance.]] Compared to this, a first-time list of speakers will be followed by Fidesz's representative, Mr Balla Mihály. Here you go.
u2016-06-08-39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, In December 2015, the Foreign Ministers of the North Atlantic Council decided to invite Montenegro to join the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. The success of the negotiations is no better demonstrated than the signing of the Protocol of Accession at the North Atlantic Council meeting of Foreign Ministers between 19 and 20 May 2016. As the general justification for the bill before us is stated, following the conclusion of accession negotiations, the current States Parties will draw up a separate so-called accession protocol for each of the invited countries. In the Protocol of Accession, the current members shall enter into agreement with each other on the inclusion of the new Member State. This procedure is defined in Article 10 of the North Atlantic Treaty, according to which the parties may, by unanimous agreement, invite any other European State capable of promoting the further development of the principles of the Treaty and contributing to the security of the North Atlantic. These conditions are, of course, met by Montenegro. Let me also point out here that the NATO Parliamentary Assembly took place in Budapest a year ago, in May, and then, here in Budapest, the General Assembly adopted a resolution on the proposal of the Hungarian delegation asking for an accelerated accession to Montenegro. I think that a little more than a year after the then general assembly, we are pleased to say that, yes, Hungary is in favour of the Hungarian Parliament, at least the pro-government side is sure to support Montenegro's accession. After all, we know that Montenegro is a key partner for Hungary in the region. It is an economic and now we can say that it is a security policy and political partner of Hungary in the Western Balkans, Montenegro, without which the stability of the region cannot be imagined. It cannot be imagined that in the Western Balkans we can show the European, European Union or Euroatlantic perspective, which may be a good example for all countries there, and for the neighbouring countries, of the possibility of integration, and of the possibility of resolving a number of issues and problems through integration, which are still characteristic of the Western Balkans. [[12.10]] It is also particularly important that, with Montenegrin accession, as Mr Secretary of State has said, there will be another member of the NATO alliance, which, in fact, becomes a member in the Western Balkans, in the Adriatic region, in an area in which, twenty years ago, we know that there were still fierce conflicts and various conflicts of war following the break-up of the former Yugoslavia at that time. I think that, after Montenegro gained its independence several years ago, ten years ago, and a referendum decided to become independent, I think that they will take a very important step in the future to become a more secure member of the Euroatlantic Alliance, the European Community. I hope that this accession is acceptable to all Member States, as far as I know. Of course, the period during which the other Member States will ratify the accession application, the Treaty of Accession, is also irrelevant. I think that Hungary can be among the first ones, and this is a very good message to the region, which is a particularly important area for Hungary, which is also very important for our national interests. On this basis, I would ask my fellow Members and the Parliament to support the proposal together with the governing parties. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-06-08-40	Thank you very much. Mr Attila Mesterházy, representative of the MSZP, is the next speaker. Here.
u2016-06-08-41	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Over the last quarter of a century, the Euroatlantic community has not been faced with as many challenges and security threats as the current, predominantly from the south and the east. The best answer to these challenges is the enlargement of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. NATO's strength will be significantly enhanced if it hires new members, if it continues its enlargement policy. It is in Hungary's strategic interest that as many countries in Europe meet the political and economic conditions of accession, become members of the European Union and NATO. It is also in Hungary's interest to support these countries' efforts politically and to help them prepare by practical means. At the same time, it is extremely important for our country to solve and address the remaining minority policy, ecological, water and other problems after the accession of the countries of the region to the EU and NATO. The EU and NATO membership of Hungary and the region stabilises the security of the region and gives greater space to regional cooperation. This is why our country has supported and supported the European integration of neighbouring countries and has considered it its task to facilitate the accession process of the Western Balkans. Promoting stability in the Western Balkans was a top priority for the Hungarian foreign and security policy at all times. To this end, Hungary, together with its EU and Atlantic partners, participated in crisis management operations, the development of democratic institutions of the rule of law, and the stabilisation of the region. The more we integrate the Western Balkans into NATO, the safer the region becomes, and for Hungary as a neighbouring country, this is of strategic importance. In addition to the war conflicts in the 1990s, it is also worth bearing in mind that accession will make the region extremely vulnerable to political, economic and Islamic radicalism more resilient. This is why Hungary has supported Montenegro's invitation to NATO and preparations for full membership. In addition to national security interests, Montenegro's NATO accession serves Hungary's national economy interests. NATO membership always stabilises the economic and market conditions of a country. In Montenegro, Hungarian companies have significant interpretations, especially in the banking sector - I am thinking of OTP - and in the hotel industry - I could mention Hunguest Hotel - but Magyar Telekom is also present. The more stable the political and economic environment in Montenegro, the more investment can come from Hungary and the more bilateral trade relations can develop. It is important to note that Hungary is the second largest investor of the EU Member States in Montenegro. According to information, Eximbank provides a EUR 45 million credit line to encourage cooperation between Hungarian and Montenegrin small and medium-sized enterprises and the Hungarian National Trading House Ltd. has opened representation in Podgorica. Although students of Montenegro are already studying at Hungarian universities, such as the University of Szeged, Hungary will be able to offer additional scholarships to participate in Hungarian courses in the future. It is also worth mentioning that Montenegro is one of the most prepared candidates of the North Atlantic Alliance. The independence of the former Yugoslav Republic was declared by the Montenegrin Parliament after the referendum in May 2006. The country was included in the NATO peace partnership programme in December of 2009 and was invited to the NATO membership action plan in December 2009. It is also performing well in the EU candidate countries, as it has managed to open more than twenty chapters in the accession negotiations. There is therefore a need for a stable and strong Western Balkans in Hungary's neighbourhood. Montenegro's invitation also serves our country's foreign policy, security and external economic interests. The realisation of its membership also puts relationships to a new quality level and offers more favourable opportunities to further develop our cooperation. We hope that Montenegro's invitation to join the NATO community could also be an inspiration to other Western Balkan countries. To this end, the Hungarian Socialist Party's parliamentary group supports Montenegro's accession to the North Atlantic Treaty and also calls for the adoption of a bill containing the publication of the Protocol on Accession. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-06-08-42	Thank you very much. Congressman Gábor Staudt, representative of Jobbik. Here.
u2016-06-08-43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I am looking at the proposal from the perspective of Montenegro, because it is, of course, necessary to formally ratify it in order for them to join NATO. In the same way as in the case of Croatia, when it joined the EU, there is a duality in these treaties, since a Member State has expressed its view that it would like to join a community, but those who are inside must, of course, approve it and the parliaments of the Member States should also approve this accession. This is, of course, well done, and I do not want to wander away, but the principle of the various trade agreements is, too, that the Parliament can decide about it. TTIP, CETA, and it could be classified, by the way, there has been a long debate in Parliament in recent weeks about whether these will be mixed agreements or not, but the point is, in which Parliament also agreed in those cases that national Parliaments, such as the Hungarian Parliament, must have their proposals before them, and it is very right that, by the way, the ratification of similar accession proposals should also be carried out by national Parliaments. If this is the case, then a strange duality can arise, and I can also provide a good example of Croatia's accession, because despite our criticism of the European Union, we voted in favour of Croatia's accession, because if the Croatians democratically believe that they want to be members of this club, they want to be members of the EU, and they have become members since then, at the very least, we can tell them what to pay attention to in the accession negotiations, what are the pitfalls that Hungary or Hungarian politics has committed, and which we have managed to fail. This is another and once again a far-reaching topic, but we can and should, of course, tell the accession countries of these good experiences, but in light of these, they must decide to join and join a community. This is also important because, while accession negotiations have a very important role to play in the case of EU accession, and the fact that Hungary had to join in in this form does not mean that others had to suffer the conditions that, for example, Poles had already started financing agricultural products from twice the level of support, and in the case of various agricultural subsidies, it was their result that they could achieve this, and that is why we voted and supported Croatia's accession. [[12.20]] We are the same way with Montenegro's accession to NATO. Although there are many criticisms about NATO's policy, as a real politician, we should be aware that in a situation that has evolved, and that has been said several times by President Gábor Vona, it would be very difficult for Hungary in this world political situation if we had to stand our ground with this force, this economic background, as an independent country. I wish that was the goal that should be achieved, as Switzerland, let us say, has succeeded, but we are very far from getting to that level in terms of money and attitude. However, we are not there yet, and in any way Hungary would be a kind of operational area if at least the often criticized, often controversial screen were not over our heads, which we have at the moment. I stress that, of course, this does not mean that we must always agree with everything, it does not mean that for every mission Hungarian soldiers must be sent, and as I know whether decision-making within NATO, this is not a duty for Hungary to send every mission, or how many Hungarian soldiers to a mission, but an opportunity and offering. Of course, the obligation would only exist if a NATO member country were attacked externally. Let us say that if this were to happen in the Baltic, it would obviously extend the scope of Hungarian duties, but until then there is also a place in the Hungarian Parliament to vote 'yes' or 'no' in the case of participation in a foreign military mission on an offering basis, if the Hungarian Parliament gives its consent to a voluntary mission, even in the framework of NATO. These political debates will obviously continue between us in the future, but returning to Montenegro's accession, I think it is right in this situation to support their efforts, since they believe that they can ensure their security and strengthen their independence in this way; it would be a reverse if Hungary told them what is good for them. Of course, maintaining that advice can be given to them, but I do not think it would be good if we wanted to go beyond their sovereignty, quote, in their interest, and we told them what is positive or what is negative for them. This attitude is also important because our economic relations are good, as we have heard, as I know they are good with Montenegro, and it is expected in the future that this will be strengthened, so there is also an economic factor in maintaining good relations and good relations. Not to mention that Montenegro's independence took place just over ten years ago. Exactly on 21 May 2006, ten years ago and a few days ago, the referendum took place, in which they declared their independence and were able to exist as an independent country, and they were able to break out of the map of the former Yugoslavia, more precisely from Kis-Jugoslavia, Serbia and Montenegro, and were able to form an independent, independent state. Why is this important to Hungary? Why can it be an important message to support a young state, an independent state, in such a way? It is important, ladies and gentlemen, because there are a lot of Hungarian people in Southern Hungary, for whom, I believe, autonomy efforts are legitimate demands which could be supported by just similar examples. We are, of course, not talking about an independent state in Southern Hungary, but we do need to talk about autonomy within Serbia. If, in this case, we can point out that, ten years ago, a nation of just over 600,000 has not been able to gain autonomy, but its independence in the region, and this can be confirmed peacefully, as a UN country, accepted by the European Union, since then, and probably in the future as a NATO country, then the minimum is that we can act alongside the Hungarian autonomy efforts in Southern Hungary, and in many other places in the Carpathian Basin. It is difficult to deny the need for a Hungarian population of hundreds of thousands to guarantee at least autonomy, if a nation of 600 thousand, whose population is obviously not even 600 thousand Montenegrin, so a new country of 600 thousand, so the exact one, was able to achieve independence, the minimum is that a large mother country or a medium-sized mother country in the region, I would put it this way, Hungary will also be able to achieve more results in the future in the interests of the southern Hungarians. I must also say that, although this is a strange fact, many people know that there is a euro in Montenegro, so that the official currency, the euro, has been arbitraryly and unilaterally introduced, so they are ahead of Hungary in this respect, however strange it may be. Obviously, they did not introduce this after EU accession and waiting for the right criteria, but unilaterally, this is a strange small picantria of the country, but they are doing well with it, and they can also use it as an advantage in tourism, as they can pay EUR for tourists from different countries, whether from the euro area or Hungary, or from neighbouring countries, from EU countries, but not from euro countries. So together with what I have said, we can support their accession, and we trust that they will take it as a gesture that will strengthen Hungarian relations in the economic sphere on the one hand, or give the Hungarian government a means to legitimately invoke Montenegro's example in the interests of the Hungarian minority in the south. We hope that this gesture will also be sent to Montenegro as a message that it will support Hungarian aspirations and flag them. We ask the Hungarian Government and its present representative to take advantage of this opportunity, especially the possibility that it will appear to be ratified by the National Assembly as much as possible, and this should be a reference to standing up for the Hungarian minority, to stand up effectively, and to use this weapon - of course I mean the weapon here as a diplomatic weapon - to strengthen not only Montenegro, but also the Hungarian minority, to live anywhere in the Carpathian Basin or in the world. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-08-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak in the remaining time frame. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. The consolidated debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to react.
u2016-06-08-45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Given that all the speakers supported the presentation, which I would like to thank, I also encourage the Parliament to receive this support in the final vote. Thank you very much.
u2016-06-08-46	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decision shall take place on Monday's meeting. Dear Parliament, There follows a general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Ghana on the proposal for an agreement on the visa waiver of their nationals with diplomatic and service passports until closure. The government referral is T/10933. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to give the floor once again to Mr István Ájmártó, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the author. Here you go. [[12.30]]
u2016-06-08-47	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In order to effectively implement the external economic strategy for southern opening, we are seeking enhanced cooperation and ongoing political consultation with the countries of the sub-Saharan region. In our efforts, Ghana plays a prominent role, where the welcome expansion of our economic and political relations and the opening of the Hungarian Embassy in Accra on 1 April 2016 raised a real need to ease the conditions of entry into each other's countries without increasing migration risks. This objective can be achieved by making the travel of holders of diplomatic and service passports visa-free. A detailed expert consultation was held between the parties with the mutual transmission and opinion of the draft contracts, resulting in the text of the agreement acceptable to both parties. For the final conclusion of the Treaty text, i.e. the signature of the Treaty in accordance with Article 1171/2016. On 9 May 2016, Zoltán Balog, Minister of Human Resources, signed the agreement in Accra. This agreement was drawn up in Hungarian and English, and the draft of the Advertising Act contains both language texts. The partial visa waiver agreement covering diplomatic and service passports in Hungary-Ghana consists of 17 articles ensuring visa-free entry for holders of diplomatic and service passports in Hungary and Ghana and stay for 30 days in the territory of the other Party within 180 days. The Agreement is in line with the visa rules of the European Union. Outside our country, Germany, Romania and Malta grant visa waivers to holders of diplomatic and service passports in Ghana on the basis of an international agreement. Hungary has an agreement with more than 40 states to ensure the possibility of reciprocal visa-free travel by their nationals with diplomatic and service passports. I therefore ask this House to adopt the bill that has been tabled. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-06-08-48	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I will ask if anyone from the Fidesz Group wishes to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, head speaker of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2016-06-08-49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I, too, would like to draw the State Department's attention to one small thing very briefly. A relatively late recognition by the government of the fact that, in connection with the opening of the South and the opening of the Hungarian Embassy in Accra on 1 April 2016, a great and urgent demand arose to facilitate the mutual travels of holders of diplomatic and service passports. Or, as the case may be, they only realized late that, as a general rule, EU competence in the European Union is to decide whether third-country nationals are visa-free or visa-free and the Republic of Ghana is defined by this provision as a country of visa requirements. But maybe it's not about time, it's about finally solving this problem. So for our part, we support the publication of this agreement in the law, as it has indeed caused problems and difficulties in diplomatic relations between the two countries. So, for our part, we welcome the fact that even if you're a little late in the State Department, you're still trying to make that move. So we support the provision. Thank you very much.
u2016-06-08-50	Thank you very much. I'll see if anyone else wants to tell me. [[No one's reporting.]] [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. No one's applied for a two-minute speech. No further speeches by Members. It is my duty to ask you, then, if anyone would like to take the opportunity to speak from among the Members of the Parliament. (No one's reporting. ) No. The general debate is closed. Secretary of State, would you like to react?
u2016-06-08-51	Thank you very much. I would also like to thank the Parliament for its support in the final vote. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-06-08-52	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, CCXIV 2015 on certain claims resolution measures to strengthen the stability of the capital market follows. a joint debate on a proposal to amend law. By Pál Völner, Fidesz, Member T/11001. The submission submitted by the European Parliament is available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that, according to the adopted House Rules, the opening speech and the closing speech will take a total of 20 minutes, 5 minutes for the government representative's statement, 6 minutes for the legislative committee's speech, 3 minutes for the presentation of the minority opinion, 10 minutes for the group's speeches, 3 minutes for the independent Members' speeches. I now give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, rapporteur on the agenda. Here you go.
u2016-06-08-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I present to the Parliament the CCXIV of 2015 on certain claims settlement measures taken to strengthen the stability of the capital market. Law, the amendment of the so-called Compensation Act. The proposed amendment becomes necessary due to the reason for the ongoing settlement of claims and only, in this context, clarifies the provisions of the Compensation Act as necessary. The problems arising from the practice of claims settlement justify the amendment of the law adopted by Parliament on 15 December 2015. The compensation law was published on 22 December 2015 in order to mitigate the damage to the largest loss suffered by groups of brokers in the year 2015. The compensation law entered into force after 1 January 2016, which allowed the submission of claims claims to the Compensation Fund. Following the expiry of the deadline for the submission of claims claims on 15 February 2016, the claims were assessed by the Compensation Fund by 31 March 2016. The payment of the compensation to the right holders for the settlement of claims shall take place between May and June 2016, i.e. the payment of the consideration is ongoing. Approximately 32 thousand investors have submitted claims claims. During the calculation of the consideration - deduction of return and self-reliance - the realised return of approximately 10,000 investors was higher than the current investment, so no claims were settled for them. The Compensation Fund is expected to pay 21,000 victims for settlement of claims, amounting to approximately HUF 38 billion. Of this, the claims settlement fund has already transferred the amount of the claims settlement to the deposit account at the paying place to 18 500 victims, with a total amount of HUF 32 406 397 168. The compensation of the victims of Quaestor and Hungária was carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Compensation Act. The Compensation Fund has obtained from investment firms the data necessary to calculate the consideration. However, in the case of Quaestor, problems arose because the previously unknown practice developed by Quaestor was that investors did not buy bonds only at the time of issue, but also on the secondary market after issuance, i.e. Quaestor Securities Ltd. in his office, certain series of bonds were continuously marketed. In the case of bonds purchased in the secondary market, the purchase price was also paid by the investor for interest on a pro rata basis, for interest not yet credited between the date of issue and the date of purchase, and the security account was credited with the full interest at the expiry of the bond. Since the interest credited according to the securities account data in this case cannot be regarded as fully realised amounts of money in excess of the investment, it is therefore necessary to clarify the provision of the claims settlement law on the determination of the return. The problem was that the Compensation Fund, which acted in accordance with the provisions of the Law, deducted more than the actual realised return on bonds purchased on the secondary market in the case of bonds. The amendment is also necessary because the fundamental thesis of the Compensation Act was that the investor had to recover the capital he had invested at the time, but that the high returns credited by the investment firm did not result from actual economic activity, so that the law considered it to be a capital return, and therefore the Compensation Fund had to deduct the returns realised from the value of the bonds in the securities account over the past eight years. If the Compensation Fund were to deduct more than what the investor had actually enriched by taking into account the legal requirements, it would not be compatible with the fundamental purpose of the law. [[12.40]] This measure is of particular importance because it concerns the settlement of 10 580 eligible claims. Out of this circle, 6155 claims would be entitled to an increase in the agreed consideration and, in the case of approximately 546 claims settlement holders, a reduction in the return to be deducted would no longer result in the consideration to be paid by the Compensation Fund, for which the return to be deducted was previously higher than the value of the registered bonds, so that no payment was established for them. The revision of the 6,000 applications would amount to an additional expenditure of approximately HUF 1 billion of HUF 360 million. To sum up, this proposal to amend the law reflects the Government's intention to mitigate the damage suffered by the group of brokers' greatest losses and, in this context, the payment of the compensation established in the fair settlement of claims to those entitled to settlement of claims may be made within the time limit laid down by law. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-08-54	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if Mrs. Secretary of State would like to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Ms. Ágnes Hornung, the Secretary of State, has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-06-08-55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, In addition to what the Secretary of State has said, I would like to add that this amendment to the law is a technical amendment containing a more precise wording of the word. This is done in order to give investors access to invested capital, calculated by deduction of returns, in the course of compensation, this remains the same. In order to fully implement this principle, it is necessary to modify or clarify this term "rendering'. In the course of the damages proceedings, it was found that Quaestor Securities Ltd. In the case of bonds purchased on a secondary market operated by the investor, the purchase price also paid interest on a pro rata basis, so the interest credited to the securities account in this case cannot be considered as a return on the investment in full. In view of this, the term "rendering" as defined by law is supplemented and is shown as the income actually earned by the right holders for the settlement of claims from the amount of interest. Although this measure is of a technical nature and affects only a fraction of the accounts, it is of particular importance for them. In order to ensure that the accounts can actually be adjusted, it is necessary to apply this provision to ongoing procedures. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-08-56	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee and the opinion of the minority will now be presented. A total of 6 minutes is available. Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee, has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-06-08-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to inform the Parliament that on 6 June 2016 the Legislative Committee discussed the 2015 CCXIV on certain claims settlement measures to strengthen the stability of the capital market on the basis of a derogation from the house rules. T/11001. The Committee presented a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 28 yes and 3 abstentions. The summarised amendment only contains the legislative committee's proposal for legal clarification, and the proposals of MSZP representatives were not accepted by the committee, so it is not included in the summary amendment proposal. The primary reason for this is that the proposal submitted aims to provide investors with the capital that they had invested before, while bearing the share of the investment risk. The definition of yield is therefore of great importance for the calculation of the exact amount. Quaestor Securities Ltd. is a practical problem. In this case, the interest credited to the security account cannot be regarded as a full return on investment. I believe that it would not be fair and fair for them to deviate from the rule of law in the settlement of claims. Keeping the original goals and principles, for example, taking into account the ban on compensation, as was done at the Legislative Committee's meeting, support the bill in the final vote. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-08-58	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We now have speeches from Members. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 10-10 minutes, and the independent representatives have 3 minutes. First, the speeches of the Members who have made themselves known in writing. First up, Congressman Roland Mengyi, representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2016-06-08-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On 15 December last year, the Parliament adopted the new compensation law containing the new conditions for the settlement of claims, which has been extremely helpful and providing assistance to the Quaestor victims. However, more people have reported anomalies over time and it has become apparent that this issue of yield calculation has to be resolved with regard to one of the Quaestor bonds issued. This is an extremely short but more important proposal, and it is obvious that in the interests of the Quaestor-harmed, it is essential that this is accepted by the Parliament with the same briefness, accuracy and speed. That's why we asked for a derogation from the house rules. What this is about, the national secretary of state and the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee have made it clear. As regards one of the bonds issued, it was indicated that the yield calculation and the calculation amount in relation to interest were different not only in relation to the sale at issue but in relation to the second market. This is settled in this amending proposal. Of course, the amendment would also apply to cases already pending, so those who have already received the letter from the Compensation Fund, in which an amount has been fixed for them and other details of the procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, In my view, this proposal contains clarification and clarification provisions which clearly create a more favourable situation for the right holders, and therefore, not only for these practical reasons, but also in view of our responsibility for the Quaestor victims, I would like to ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-08-60	Thank you. Congressman László Cook, MSZP, here you go.
u2016-06-08-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, You've recognised a problem, and it took you almost half a year to do so. So, on 15 December last year, Parliament adopted this law in an exceptional procedure anyway, it had to be passed in one day, then it did not accept any of the amendments to it, and it is the same now, on one of the last sittings - for you it is not unusual, but for the Hungarian legislature - the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice is submitting this amendment as an individual representative; obviously, in order to facilitate only one thing, it is easy to avoid the coordination mechanisms within the government, and then it will be able to get to the exceptional procedure sooner. In my opinion, it's unworthy, by the way. These problems were reported much earlier, and we also indicated these problems. One of these has been recognized by you for a group of bonds, but that's not the biggest problem. That's too bad. Everything they fix is good, just don't take six months for all of them. This is nothing more than a communication catch for you at the beginning of the summer, before the parliamentary season is over, so that you can say all summer that you have changed the law. Well, not in what's wrong, not in what they've come to you with. They got a lot of letters, a lot of letters from the Justice Department, and a lot of people wrote down what the problem was. I believe that the root of the problem can be caught in the following. First of all, it is not a problem with the yield change, or rather the return change for income, that is to say, to replace the well-known concepts that have never been wrong before. We all know what interest is and what income is, from individual to individual. [[12.50]] However, in order to establish this, it would require a very detailed and detailed accounting. I note quietly that I also said at the committee meeting that that is what Viktor Orbán promised. Last October 20, he said on TV, News, that it should not only be accounted for in general, but should be accounted for in lots. Secretary of State, you have failed to do so, the Compensation Fund has failed. In a 3-page letter, 9 meaningful lines are accounted for by the victims, one, two, sometimes three generations - 9 meaningful lines! One month's gas bill, one month's electricity bill is more detailed than that. I believe that, at the time when we demanded that one of the amendments be made to account for the victims with sufficient and reasonable detail, it would not have cost money, and it would not have been a request that could not have been met. Last but not least, we would not have asked for anything else if we had already formed and created ex-gratia law, so that it should be accurate, transparent; not least be fair, and the procedure itself is humble. Let's not forget, the state made a mistake here, and the Hungarian National Bank, which oversees financial institutions, made a mistake. It's not his job to explore these events. The task of the Hungarian National Bank is not to expose and then track down the perpetrators - the police and the prosecutor's office are there. It is the responsibility of the Hungarian National Bank to prevent such acts from occurring. That is why you have enjoyed this responsibility, and you have also enjoyed the need to make some kind of law for it - but what kind of law have you made? They have made a law that, of course, some of the compensation will be paid to the injured on the basis of their own rules, but you are deeply silent about giving them up any right to appeal. These victims must agree to accept any amount of forints offered by your fund, by the way, in 12 thousand cases zero forints, not to look at the basis on which this was calculated, no matter how many forints it is. They don't know how much of Quaestor's assets and where the Quaestor's assets are now to participate in the winding-up proceedings or to accept what the fund offers them. They are not in a position to make a decision and, above all, to waive the right to appeal; neither against the fund nor against the calculation, and especially against Quaestor, they cannot pursue any kind of property action. I think it's definitely unfair. These two amendments, to which I have received as many answers as I usually get from you in general, are not supported by the government, and this is also the full justification for your professional observation - these two would not cost any money. It wouldn't cost any money. One is about counting in detail, not in a 3 - page letter, 9 rows about how much they are entitled to. And the rest of the 3 pages are about your rights to those people. Count in detail; you can do it, I'm sure. If you can't do it, you have to admit it. And our other amendment was not to give up these people's right to appeal, let them go after their own money. You're not going to compensate me, you're going to factor. They buy these claims for money calculated in some way by a fund created by a state, but then all victims should be silent. I think that this is at least not fair. And as far as the bill is concerned, they didn't just buy more expensive bonds, they bought a lot of bonds below the nominal value. Just according to the interest rate fluctuations at that time, Quaestor sold the bond even below the nominal value. And it would be precisely the cost of accepting the Secretary of State's proposal, which, by the way, the Constitutional Court ruled out in its last decision. That's not thought out, Mr. Secretary. I think they're trying to throw one thing in here so they can cover it all summer. They won't tell us that the interest rates of Quaestor's financial advisor property bonds have been deducted from those of the past 14 years, because at the last minute, they didn't even smuggle Quaestor's Financial Advisor's real estate bonds into the settlement policy - they're taking the interest rates of 14 years! Even you were proud of that company when these bonds were issued and when the first returns were paid. Madam State Secretary and Secretary of State, this is a long way from fair claims settlement. This is a long way from being called righteous. I would ask you to consider accepting our amendments, at least what does not cost money, because you will be blamed and rightly blamed. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-06-08-62	Thank you very much. The next speaker was Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, Member of the LMP. Here you go.
u2016-06-08-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, It must be said that, in the context of the compensation of the Quaestor victims and the whole scandal, the government has a great deal of debt. First of all, it was not revealed how this government-supported pilot play could have been taking place for many years. How the PSZEF, later the Hungarian National Bank, could grant permission to issue an annual bond issue of 70 billion euros thereafter For a company with a capital of $10 million? In November 2014, the last time it appeared that the company group behind it could not guarantee repayment either. How could parts of the government, especially the Foreign Minister and his circle, be so entangled with an adventurer and fed the pilot's game with public money? It would have been possible to explore all this if you had supported the LMP proposal on the brokerage committee, but it was more important for you to cover up the laundry in this case as well. The shift of responsibility is also linked to compensation, because if it turned out that the MNB was involved in the scandal up to the neck, it would have been a significant part of the account due to the lack of supervision. For the record, there was something to it. It would have been better to make up for damaged people than to buy another luxury estate out of public money. As far as compensation is concerned, they also delayed much. Finally, with a delay of one year, a compensation law was passed, but also, in haste, fooled in one day, dilettantly, burdening the burden on those who had far less to do with the scandal than Péter Szijjártó: financial institutions and citizens. However, the shortcomings of the law were soon revealed - the revenge of the reject. Since then, the Quaestor victims have been regularly protesting, criticizing, and asking that they do not try to steal the rest of the property through the liquidators; that they do not count it as a return, which is not, and I might add. You could have heard it if you'd come out to the Chain Bridge or just the last time. And now, instead of sitting down with the victims' representatives and correcting the mistakes that they had half a year for, at the last minute, again, fooling Parliament in the same way, in days, again not taking too much of Parliament, they're submitting another amendment that doesn't necessarily serve the interests of the victims. We see that it would be in the best interests of the victims if the very many different cases were not treated as one, but examined individually on the basis of the contracts concluded, how much part the investor should wear and how much part they refund. But if the interests of the victims are not represented by the government and this law, then what is it in your interest? It seems to me that the executor, the crafty one, the scrambled one. Those who want to make use of the remaining assets at some point; those who made it necessary to declare that they would waive further claims, even if the compensation was received, even if they later found property or became valuable, such as the site in Csepel. [[13.00]] In recent debates, it has been found that the interests of the Compensation Fund are being put ahead of those of the victims. The current concrete amendment is a factor in different constructions, and on this basis it calculates the returns it deducts. On the other hand, there were many cases where the returns did not result from the payment of the interest described, the interest rates were calculated differently. With this amendment, they help some people again and hit others. Again, it is not about protecting victims, it is about fair and equitable compensation. The opposition amendments, which might correct some errors, are still not willing to consider. We think it's gonna fall back on your head. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-06-08-64	Thank you very much. As a speaker, MEP László Szakács asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2016-06-08-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My fellow Member, Erzsébet Schmuck, inspired me to say a few more things, and I see that there will be no debate, so I thought to say this before closing. Look at what they're helping us with; what we see now is that it will be the good friend of the Prime Minister who will be running the Quaestor hotels, some of which he already operates. The project in Csepel, which was the project of Quaestor, was also included in the issue prospectus, dear State Secretarys, that it offers a profit of between one and two billion euros. Write this down in the release prospectus and even allow it - how can I put it? - at least it's funny, because there's a 100 percent difference between the two numbers. But now they're gonna put their hands on this. Someone needs this, and they take it from the people they're supposed to be. And you're assisting them, giving them their rights, getting them to give up their money. This is a world scandal if you allow it, and you don't even support what doesn't cost money. Count me in fair, accurate, and humble. You can't do that either? Thank you very much.
u2016-06-08-66	Again, I would like to ask if anyone else would like to speak out against the remaining time frame. [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The consolidated debate is closed. I give the floor to the author, Mr Pál Völner, you have up to 14 minutes, Congressman. Here you go.
u2016-06-08-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Unfortunately, we have to look back to the beginning. If we look at what happened in this case, technically, a company was liquidated. Mr. Congressman is also a lawyer, so you know who could have recovered his assets from liquidation proceedings in the last 20 years or who has obtained his claim, especially if he is, say, in a category. So everyone knows about the rates of return. Everyone knows that the Investor Protection Fund had an obligation to compensate for the damage that came from the investor side up to HUF 6 million. Compared to this, there was a law where claims could be obtained up to HUF 30 million, in practice - as was repeatedly said in the Commission's debate - ex-gratia the state amended a law after widespread investor masses were affected by this disaster in order to obtain a higher return. At the same time, they are open to the possibility that if they see a huge mass of assets, which the liquidator will be able to sell, that they will not make use of this kind of settlement, but will line up with the liquidator, and they will receive the higher amount that you consider to be in excess of what we can offer in this law. But you can see that the claimants claim this settlement, precisely because anyone who is realistic in thinking and seeing economic processes knows that liquidation is not the way to get their money back as an investor today. So everything else, which is contrary to this statement, is cheap political gain, which, of course, is allowed here within the walls of the House, but it should be examined that the basic problem was caused by the bankruptcy of this company, this company was wound up, compared to all the measures taken by the government or Parliament, only improved the position of investors. The notification sent by the Compensation Fund to the right holders obviously contained data, as certain items are contested on the basis of those data, and it could be clarified from these data that, for example, there is a case where the sale was made below the nominal value, because it also covers this case, if it is below the nominal value; let us say, there is a difference between the return on the sale below the nominal value and how it can be compensated. And factoring, we know, is common in business and finance, so let's not mix legal concepts, because that's also misleading. Usually, at a lower rate than factoring, someone buys a certain claim, where they then obtain the full claim, and he gets this deal, and the other party gets it sooner. Here, it is not sooner to obtain a demand, but to obtain a demand, and in the other case, as has been said in the debate, to receive or receive a stray dog's dinner, but, after his master is absent, he does not receive it, so this can be said for sure. Who's responsible for this case? For example, the issue of real estate bonds was discussed, where for 14 years the representative of memory reflected it. As I recall, 14 years ago, another government registered, the then government, the MFB, led by János Erős, gave many, many billions of forints to real estate investments carried out by Quaestor, their return is also highly questionable, let's say in the stadium project, because they are generally community expenses that are very rarely repaid on a commercial basis. They're usually financed by the state, not by credit. So if you choose a credit facility, we can ask you if you were responsible when you did this. I'm telling you, in 2010, the current government took up government positions, so the events of the previous period, the size of its core capital, why the State Supervisory Authority of the Financial Institutions at the time relaxed the method of control that we managed to tighten up only during the integration into the National Bank, the legislative amendments, and these financial problems at the brokerage companies immediately fell out, just to praise and credit the government, that we were finally able to steer finance in Hungary in a direction that guarantees predictability and capital market reliability. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-08-68	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decision will take place on Monday's meeting. Dear Parliament, Next up is the Justice Committee 7/2014-2018. Ü/11016 concerning the rejection of IUB's ad hoc position Submitted by Jobbik's Group. The debate will be the first to be heard by a Member of the Group proposing a decision and then by the rapporteur of the Judicial Committee. The speeches will then take place. So now, Honourable Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, representative of Jobbik, within a maximum of five minutes.
u2016-06-08-69	That's right. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, We are standing before the Parliament with a proposal to establish a clear house violation, and given that the committee whose chairman has committed this, or which committee has done so, was very difficult to expect an objective, independent procedure; it has not been successful. I would add that, let me put it this way, the pettyness was also committed that on Monday, when I asked the Justice Committee to start by discussing this proposal with an exchange of agendas, because I have to go to a group meeting, this was rejected by the committee, confident that the argument system that I am going to say here to the committee will not be made without a better presence. So if the majority of the committee in Fidesz-KDNP had been less petty when they voted on the agenda, then maybe we shouldn't have talked about it here in front of the Parliament. But if the opportunity is given, I would like to say that the reference to the non-compliance of 30 days is that the committees have 30 days known to discuss a proposal, and in a very important agenda before the Justice Committee to amend the basic law of Jobbik in relation to the resettlement quotas, it has not been possible to comply with these 30 days. [[13.10]] And it was consciously not possible to comply with these 30 days, given that, by the way, the News appeared on TV, that Mr President acknowledged that he would not allow the better proposal to be made at that time at the meeting that we asked for, and that was the last time that the 30 days would be respected - that was on 9 May - he would not allow it, I suppose, because this was in competition with the proposal of Fidesz. Jobbik wanted to reject mandatory quotas in the Fundamental Law, but Fidesz initiated a referendum in this case, and if this had been assessed at the same time, it would have been quite clear that Jobbik's proposal provides a better, cheaper, more efficient and stronger guarantee. It is, therefore, that the 30 days expired on 13 May, then the Parliament met, but on 9 May, when the committee could have discussed it and asked the committee to take it up on the agenda, despite the fact that the majority of the committee in Fidesz-KDNP rejected it, because the committee started at 10 a.m., it ended in 41 minutes, and the meeting of the Parliament started at 1 o'clock. So it's quite clear that it would have been possible. Not to mention - and I have called the present members of the committee and the press - that a lot of people in this country go to work at 8:00 a.m. or even start work earlier, so the chairman of the committee could have done that if he felt that there were a lot of agendas, he would have set the meeting earlier. That didn't happen either. And that's what the news TV footage found out, which made it perfectly clear that house violations were conscious. Of course, there is nothing wrong with that, but then there must be men, stand up here and say that, yes, we have broken house rules, yes, we do, yes, the Parliament will set it up. By the way, this is not a major loss sanction if it is pronounced, so it is not even a matter of losing a mandate. Although, in such a case, I have to say that it would be justified, because when someone violates the order of the House for political reasons, the house rule, in order to gain political advantage, I do not even consider it a small punishment to pay with his mandate, but the legislation in force does not give us the opportunity to do so. On the other hand, it was said that the Parliament would establish conscious house violations, and that, in the committee meeting, when we discussed this, there were also eight other proposals to be considered, and in these cases the committee would not be able to hold the 30 days. There's no reason why it doesn't fit. The chairman of the committee has other things to do. What other business could he have with respect to house rules and compliance with laws? I would add that the committee also has Vice-Presidents, Vice-Presidents who can chair the meeting, this has been done several times at the meeting of the Judicial Committee, and other committees at its meeting. And we can't do that if the representatives of Fidesz-KDNP either don't go to work or feel they are coming, but if they have discussed proposals that are in their political interest, they will also close the meeting at the expense of house violations. We are asking the Parliament to establish the infringement, and this was also a conscious violation. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-08-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur for the Justice Committee, within a five-minute timeframe. Here you go.
u2016-06-08-71	Thank you very much for the floor. In the view of the Judicial Committee, the Committee and the President, who are entitled to convene the meeting, had to decide - after the Parliament adopted the agenda of the sitting week on 9th at around 14.00 - either to convene the meeting of the committee for a date during the plenary session, which it cannot do without a special authorisation, or to discuss this agenda or series of items a little later, actually later than 30 days. Mr President has decided to discuss this later. By the way, on the 9th of May, when the Justice Committee met, the deadline was not over yet, according to my calculations, the deadline expired on 12th May. Originally, the plan was to hold a committee meeting later that week, which would have been included in the deadline. Unfortunately, this was not possible in line with the agreed programme of the plenary session. The other part of the question concerned which committee would act in this case. It is clear from the house rules that, even if a request for a point of order is made in the Judicial Committee, whether on a case-by-case basis or on a general basis, it must be judged by the Judicial Committee. Obviously, if someone is dissatisfied with the position of the Judicial Committee, they can turn to the plenary session, as they did. In our view, this resolution complies with the legislation, so we ask that Jobbik's motion be rejected by Parliament, i.e. to uphold the position of the Judicial Committee. Thank you for listening.
u2016-06-08-72	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. I'll ask who wants to comment. Congressman Lajos Kepli, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2016-06-08-73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As my colleague Gábor Staudt said, by bringing him here to the plenary session, we wanted to give the ruling parties an opportunity to admit that they were not acting in a very fair manner, and that they were acting in a very petty manner - to stick to the expression - at a meeting of the Justice Committee, when the TV tapes clearly demonstrated from the President of the Commission that they could even by breaking house rules prevent this proposal from getting on the agenda. It is clearly a political motivation, because you have repeatedly communicated that you are insisting on the referendum on quotas. Indeed, Jobbik's request for amendment of the basic law would be much more obvious, much more cost-effective, much simpler and certainly cheaper and faster for citizens. You have constantly rejected this, consistently contradicted it. In comparison, however, they were forced to take a solution at the committee meeting that ignores the house rules they have created. I mean, it's about you creating a house rule, and now you don't even follow that house rule you created. In the same way as the laws, fundamental laws, which they themselves have made, and which are constantly being amended as they please, ignoring the whole parliamentarianism. It's quite simply that. And we wanted to bring it to the plenary so that it would be more public, on the one hand, so that you could admit your mistake and apologize to the Jobbik faction on the one hand, and, on the other hand, admitting your mistake, the best thing for the whole country would be to really reject the resettlement quotas by amending the basic law, and not spend an unnecessary amount of billions in referendums. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-08-74	Thank you very much. I'll see if anyone else wants to tell me. Congressman Vas Imre, of course you, as rapporteur for the Judicial Committee, have the opportunity to respond, but as a Member, you have the opportunity to speak. So you're about to speak as a representative of the Fidesz. You have the floor, please.
u2016-06-08-75	Thank you very much for the floor. I wanted to speak here as a special representative on the political charge that it was not a question of whether or not the Parliament would accept the amendment of the basic law of Jobbik, but of whether or not to include it in a series of subjects. So here the referendum and the inclusion in the series of amendments to the basic law cannot be interpreted at all in this context. On the one hand, because the Parliament decided to order a referendum after that or that week, while here at the Fundamental Law it was only within 30 days that the Judicial Committee had to decide whether or not to take this into consideration. [[13.20]] It also acts in its entirety in accordance with house rules if it does not include it in a series of articles; it does not have such an obligation on the Judicial Committee to include any of its Members' motions in a series of articles. I deny, by the way, that this would be a better solution, and I believe that in these pivotal cases, people should be asked; I think that the amendment of the basic law of Jobbik would not have solved this, it would not have solved anything at all. Thank you so much for listening. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2016-06-08-76	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to tell me? [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. I will ask Congressman Gábor Staudt if he wishes to answer. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2016-06-08-77	Thank you, Mr. President. I certainly respect our fellow Member, Imre Vas, in that he has come here to protect the indefensible and defend President Rubovszky's decision. Otherwise, the committee has the obligation to negotiate it within 30 days. And it's a very small consolation that, within 30 days, if you put it to the very end and you can no longer have a meeting, there's nothing you can do. 30 days means that the committee can discuss it on the first day, and we have asked it several times to be on the agenda, this is a very important thing. And the special permission should have been requested at the time, and at least it could be said that the Speaker didn't give me permission, but you didn't ask for it, so you didn't want it to be on the agenda before a decision was made on the Fidesz referendum; I wouldn't go into it in more detail. But even a schoolboy can see that if we hold a meeting on 9 May, and on the 13th - because I think it expired on the 13th, but it doesn't matter, it's unique in this respect - it can't be held, because on 9 May, the period during which it can be held will end, then it should be put on the agenda on 9 May. So that no one can think for two days and even think for a few hours because the plenary session started from one hour?So we can't accept this, and the news TV recorded that the president admitted that it was a conscious, deliberate house violation. There's nothing wrong with that, it's just that as a man you have to bear the consequences, that the Parliament or the committee says that it was indeed an infringement. Of course I know - and this has been said by the President - that everything here is decided that Viktor will or will not allow; that if he were here, he might be able to explain how the house violation may have been dependent on Viktor not letting this proposal be put on the agenda, that the committee would discuss it, but then it must be a man, it must stand up, and it must also be said here. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-08-78	Thank you. Congressman Vas Imre, as rapporteur for the Justice Committee, would you like to speak now? [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. In that case, Honourable Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decision will take place on Monday's meeting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of today's agenda. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, applied for a post-meeting speech entitled World Environment Day. Here you go.
u2016-06-08-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The world celebrated World Environment Day on June 5th. This significant event is intended to recall year after year the UN's first World Conference on the Environment, entitled Man and Biosphere, in Stockholm, in 1972, and to draw attention to the preservation of the diversity of Earth and its wildlife, to halt the exploitation of nature, to eliminate pollution of environmental elements, to reduce environmental destruction, to prevent the eradication and integration of forests and all natural habitats, and to give priority to humanity's responsibility and to the immediate need for a change of attitude. World Day central events are held every year in different countries and topics. This year in Angola. His motto was, "Go wild for life." Zero tolerance to the illegal wildlife trade. *At the soundy address you no longer have to be surprised, they have been trying to send powerful messages to the inhabitants of the Earth for years. We've had some of these mottos in the last decade: seven billion dreams. A planet. Eat carefully. .;.. Raise your voice, not the sea level. The Green Economy: Are you a part of it? But it seems that this world day is not enough to stop the destruction of the environment. So now, almost every day, there is an important day to warn people about temperate behavior. World Day for Energy Saving in Environmental Matters; International Day for Seal Hunting; World Day for Water; Earth Day; Day for Bees; World Day for Migratory Birds; Day for Birds and Trees; International Day for Climate Change; International Day for Biodiversity; World Day for Oceans; World Day for Combating Deserting and Drought; World Day for Unhungarian Animals; World Day for Ozone; Day for Clean Mountains; World Day for Garbage; World Day for Animals; and International Day for Preventing the Ejaculation of the Environment in War and Armed Conflicts. Many, many days, many international conventions, many barren vows to save our Earth. But even today, it has not become aware, even in the majority of decision-makers, that it would be necessary not to be hypocritical in spirit, not to be idle in celebrations and vows, but to have a firm decision, to rationalise consumption, to distribute more justly and to limit the use of natural resources in the world economy. Not for acceleration, but for slowing down, not for growth, but for development, not for more money, but for happiness, not for conflicts, but for harmony. We don't need to save the environment. We need to save ourselves from our own greed that eats everything. How much further can we speed up, how much longer can we continue the culture of the takers? CHAPTER XX In the century, while the world's population grew 4.3 times higher, the world's energy consumption grew tenfold, its carbon production grew sevenfold, water abstraction grew ninefold, and total material consumption increased eight times. The demand for building materials increased most: 34 times from the beginning of the century. 27 times out of ore, 3.6 times out of biomass. By the end of the century, 4 times more cattle and sheep, 11 times more goats, 9.5 times more pigs, 15 times more poultry were bred and consumed than at the beginning of the century. On the basis of the figures, it can be said that consumption has increased twice faster than the rate of population growth, indicating a steady increase in demand. As a result of increasing consumption, we are using more and more natural ecosystems. The diversity of wildlife is falling, with a slightly larger area per year than the size of Switzerland. It is estimated that an animal species or plant species is currently dying every hour, most of them before we know the species itself. Dear Parliament, We know for a long time that there is no more to be taken from the resources of our environment than is renewed. Yet we use 1.6 planets, and there's only one. In other words, our children, our grandchildren, and even our own future are living at an increasing pace. It is therefore time to brake and stop, but there is no intention of doing so. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-06-08-80	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. After the agenda, MEP Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik, applied for a post-municipal speech:. What happens to Hungarian water utility providers? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-06-08-81	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you very much for speaking to my fellow Member, Erzsébet Schmuck, on the occasion of the World Environment Day, after a very important agenda. I recommend that I also protect my environment by not printing the text of my speeches after the agenda and other speeches, but using the computer screen to help me speak, and I will do so now. A few months ago, in the form of an oral question, I asked the government what was happening to domestic water utility providers. Even in the autumn, the news was that in the water utility sector, state-owned companies would have a 10 percent wage reduction and a downsizing, which was still denied from the government's side. However, since then the facts have refuted this, and the Transdanubian Regional Waterworks Ltd. In case of cases, dozens of workers have been sent. In February, Secretary of State János Fónagy spoke about organizational restructuring, resulting in a reduction in the number of employees of DRV by 150 in a few months. In turn, those who worked there pointed out that the restructuring usually went wrong, and after the resignations, the number had to be increased quickly, because the safe operation was threatened. According to our information, it has happened several times in Somogy County that new workers have been recruited into the same jobs, from which several people were sent a few weeks earlier. [[13.30]] A number of management companies have experienced a shortage of staff, suggesting a large number of indiscretions. There are more people who have asked to resign themselves than those whose resignation was initiated by the DRV, as several employees who did not take up their name claim that they wanted to sign a new contract, which would have resulted in less salary or relocation, and they did not clearly undertake this. The big question is what will happen to the service in the future. People in the DRV service area have been complaining for many years, I note, rightly. I have seen this myself, that where one of the most expensive water prices in the country is paid, technical failures and pipe breaks are increasingly common in several settlements. There are streets where machines appear several times a year and water shortages develop. So maintenance is at the expense of the criticality of the operation. In this case, I have already referred my motion to the Ministry of National Development, and I have not yet received a satisfactory solution, just the usual misconception. It is feared that the chaos, which we call the current organizational transformation, will not improve the situation, but make it worse. As early as the autumn, the company was wasted at company level, expensive external workers, subcontractors, private car use and driver's bonuses, which led to poor management and financial problems. Looks like the problems haven't peaked yet. By 10 June, the five state-owned water companies' unions granted an extension to bring their claims to fruition, otherwise, according to their communication, they will use all legal means to achieve their objectives. The trade union leadership of the five large companies protests against unreasonable and unthinkable outsourcing and excessive centralisation of efficient operations, and fear that DRV will only have the beginning, and that other water utility companies will be similarly reorganized and reduced. According to the representative representatives, the extra costs of the past years, which often took away 20-25 percent of the turnover, have been indebted to all public companies. As a result, justified, necessary investments have been missed, most reconstructions, regional waterworks face liquidity problems, operating costs and wages are often paid by credit. Ladies and gentlemen, It can be seen that once again we are talking about a field of expertise, like the tourism I outlined yesterday, where the work of the Fidesz government has led to chaos and upheaval. There is no meaningful improvement in which the workers of the profession are paying their dues. It is feared that the public, the users of the service, will also receive an increasingly deteriorating service for their money, which is not little, since in many places drinking water is still extremely expensive. Thus, once again, we call on the government to stand at their heels and turn their attention to the real problems of the country, such as water supply and water supply, rather than draining public funds. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-08-82	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its session at 10 a.m. next week. Meeting day's closed. Have a good day, everyone. [[Meeting ended at 1:33 p.m.]]
