u2016-03-29-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] : Ladies and gentlemen, The 11th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. Welcome to our dear guests and everyone who's watching our work. Dear Parliament, Last week, March 22, 2016, terrorism struck Europe again. 35 people died in Brussels and 300 were injured by acts of terrorism. Just four months after the attacks in Paris, repeated massacres in Brussels can make it clear to everyone that Europe is the target of a planned and systematic armed attack. The aim of terrorism is to persuade us to abandon our common European values and interests; to undermine our democratic political arrangement by creating an atmosphere of uncertainty and fear. Hungary is interested in creating a strong Europe capable of protecting its values and interests and is ready to contribute with its national resources. We can't let terrorists achieve their goals. We drive ahead of the victims in Brussels, and we sympathize with the relatives of the victims, as we express our solidarity with all the people suffering from the terror that is spreading around the world. Dear House, I am also fulfilling my sad duty to inform you that Imre Pozsgay died in the 83rd year of our former colleague's life on 25 March. Imre Pozsgay was Minister of Culture and Culture between 1976 and 1980, later Secretary of the Patriotic People's Front, Minister of State between 1988 and 1990. Between 1980 and 1989 he worked in the leading bodies of the Hungarian Socialist Workers' Party. Imre Pozsgay was the first pro-state politician to call the 1956 revolution a popular uprising. At the first free parliamentary election, he obtained his mandate from the Bács-Kiskun county regional list of MSZP and became the leader of the party's faction. In November 1990 he left the Party and the Group and continued his work as an independent representative. He also taught at the University of Debrecen as well as at the Reformed University of Károli Gáspár. I ask you to pay tribute to our dead fellow Member and the victims. [[The people in this room pay a silent tribute to the memory of the deceased congressman and the victims.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, the LMP representative, Mr István Ikotity, asked for a statement by the government entitled "The workers deprived of their right to strike": "The government is forcing him to do civil disobedience." The congressman has the floor.
u2016-03-29-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Weeks are passing, but there is still no substantial progress from the government in education policy. They continue to try only communication catches instead of real change. After Prime Minister Viktor Orbán called the demands of teachers a joke, and Szilárd Németh, Vice President of Fidesz, communed, they tried another trick last week: Secretary of State Bence Rétvári announced that the government would terminate KLIK. It gave the impression that the government's consultation had finally made sense, even though the announcement took place a few hours before the meeting of the round table for public education and one day before the current government meeting. In fact, it seems that Árpád Habony has decided that the KLIK will cease. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] It's just another communication catch. A few weeks ago, they tried to do the opposite, exactly the opposite, when after the meeting of the round table in public education they announced that KLIK was needed as a state maintainer, and the participants agreed on this; then it turned out that the participants did not agree on this. The fact that there is no progress now proves that Bence Rétvári also said that the centralization will not be abolished, and that the school system cannot count on more resources, although the elimination of the KLIK is not enough if the institution is redecorated or renamed, but the settlements still do not get their schools back, and they will not replace the annual HUF 200 billion that has been withdrawn from it since 2010. Instead of communication tricks, substantial steps are needed, which is why the LMP has proposed - at least in larger cities and in the metropolitan districts - that local governments ask for their schools to be maintained. Any local government that requests and is able to maintain it can get its educational institutions back. It can be seen that in smaller settlements there is a need for public responsibility in some form, but larger settlements can carry out the task of maintaining it, to the greatest satisfaction of their population, especially if they receive the appropriate resources. No wonder, then, that teachers did not appreciate the announcement last week as progress. That is exactly what we are talking about when we call these negotiations frivolous, which are taking place; so, in this form, it is not possible to trust the government. Once again, it has been proven that only strong advocacy, consistent stand-up, makes sense. On Wednesday, educators will hold their civilian dissatisfaction mission [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: It's called Insubordination, but whatever.]] The government forced them into this situation by virtually eliminating the right to strike in Hungary in 2010. We don't have a strike law today. We have a law against strike. In the budgetary sphere, there are no legal conditions for exercising the strike. Orbán's work-based society is a fever without employees' rights. Therefore, the LMP submitted an amendment to the strike law, which would allow the exercise of fundamental workers' rights again, the organisation of the strike. We also agreed on the proposal with the trade unions who supported this proposal. Today, it is a huge problem that the situation of workers in a number of sectors is disappointing, and they cannot even protest because of their vulnerability. However, the amendment of the LMP strike law was swept down by the Fidesz majority of the competent commission. The lie of the pro-government justification is also shown by the argument, among other things, that a strike law cannot be created in a strike situation. It is clear that the Fidesz-KDNP government is not on the side of employees. Yet, those who raise their word, such as union officials, are threatened, so it is necessary to strengthen their protection. Dear House, On Wednesday - using a democratic instrument of civil disobedience - hundreds of teachers will protest, who will not let themselves go and bravely stand up for their rights; they will bravely stand up for a XXI. For a 100th century education system. Civil disobedience was previously supported and even practiced by Fidesz-KDNP. That is why we call on the government to avoid any retaliation on those who, deprived of the right to strike, choose this form of peaceful protest. And LMP will re-submit its proposal to restore the right to strike, and we will repeatedly call on Fidesz-KDNP to address the issue. We keep trying to keep it on the agenda. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the question here in Parliament. Thank you for your attention. [[13.10]]
u2016-03-29-2	I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary.
u2016-03-29-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, although a little different from the given address in his speech before the agenda, in the second part of the speech he pointed out that there was no harm in communicating to the LMP some factual knowledge regarding the strike law, including civil dissatisfaction... - disobedience is what ultimately exists as a category, but this is not, let us say, specific to the strike law. The act of strike is provided in the Fundamental Law under Article XVII. The Constitutional Court also provides that this is not a fundamental right of a subjective nature, but that, in practice, the legislator has greater freedom in the design of this regulation, but it is clearly also agreed when the strike law was created. It is clear that the strike cannot be exercised unlawfully, since rights cannot be unlimited and obligations are limited, as some Members of Parliament would like to say in some of their speeches. A very important element of the strike is that a strike can continue to ensure the economic and social interests of the worker, and political pressure is excluded from this circle. So the work of the LMP as a political party is very commendable, that it wants to create a new strike law, and it also seeks out trade unions, but if trade unions were to protect economic and social interests, then perhaps everyone could stay in touch and the LMP should be political, but it is not certain that the right to strike is the area in which they should primarily pursue their activities. We all know that the level of service required for the organisation of the strike must be ensured, and the greatest guarantee is that this will be determined by judicial means in the strike law. So it is practically not from the employer's side, not from the government's side, but from an independent branch of power, the judicial branch, which ultimately acts in this regard. Mr President, Mr President, you have focused precisely on the educational area. However, I would like to mention in a few words what was said at the beginning of the speech, where you mentioned that the survival and survival of the CLIK was not. As I recall, at the beginning of the negotiations, it was said that the state reserve would remain and that the KLIK would be removed. That this process has accelerated, this is just a factual clarification, but it just proves that the negotiations make sense, because if the negotiations had the same position at the beginning and at the end of the negotiations, then why would the parties continue to negotiate, so I see a kind of contradiction in what has been said here. To those parts - back to education - the extent to which the right to strike is limited and how far there is no sufficient service, let us note that education, education is a special area, it is children, it is schools, where political activity cannot be pursued. So any movement that we strike with the children, specifically political activity and dragging children into politics, as well as the parents, who may engage in a solidarity strike, is obvious, since they are not involved in this system of relations, but I would be very careful about such calls and movements, which bring results which are incompatible with the Fundamental Law or the right to strike. So once again, we must reject any attempt to intervene in the education of youth with political slogans, to launch movements which, embedded in an economic, social robe or disguised, wish to formulate practically open political goals. It is very difficult to understand, for example, the statement of one of the most recent protesters, which called for apologies to certain public actors when we know that this is not an economic and non-social sphere, so it is again difficult to interpret as exercising the right to strike. There is an open political hack campaign at times, as opposed to the fact that the majority of teachers and schools are actually negotiating with the government, and it seems that these negotiations will lead to results. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-29-4	Mr László Szakács, on behalf of the MSZP, also applied for a speech before the agenda:. Public funds and adventurers, or how did the Ministry of Foreign Affairs return nearly HUF 4 billion from Quaestor? It's an address. Congressman's got the floor.
u2016-03-29-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, In a number of ways, it is relevant to ask this question today or at present, how money could have been returned to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and its background institution, but let's turn the clock back to 9 March last year, after which thousands of reports came. At the Central Detective Attorney General's Office, county prosecutors forwarded the reports of the small victims, but the big ones, those who kept a lot of money in the Quaestor - for example, the background institution of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, such as the city of Győr County, but I could list 23 cities who held public money in the Quaestor - they did not really hurry to do so, they did not wake up too early. And it's true that, let's say, the State Department got its 3.8 million forints back in HUF [[József Tobias: Billion!]] - I'm sorry, billion forints from Quaestor, but after that, they were so surprised to get this money back in HUF, which was held in securities at the Quaestor, that they did nothing, Mr. Secretary of State. But let's start at the beginning. How did public money end up in a company with a Liechtenstein background? This is important because, in the period when this public money was placed there, the backseat institution of your Ministry, when you placed this money there, Liechtenstein was not yet a safe, reliable partner of Hungary from a tax point of view. Later, of course, the law changed, and I suspect that since then, Liechtenstein has become reliable, but not at that moment. You couldn't have kept public money in such a place, you held 3.8 billion forints there, and Győr's county-righted city held a billion forints there. You don't have to line up for compensation right now, just like 32,000 victims have to line up for compensation. On the first day of March 9th, you were able to withdraw 3.8 billion forints from this company, which had a liquid reserve of 5 billion forints according to your own emission prospectus, and you took almost 4 billion forints from it, by the way, leaving 32 thousand other customers behind, and they are now standing in line, not from the Quaestor fortune, but from the MNB's money, because you still can't tell where Quaestor's assets have gone. Attorney General Tibor Ibolya said that there were 11 VIP clients, Mr. Secretary of State, who kept his money in sovereign debt there, but they were paid quickly before the scandal started because they were afraid of scandal. Was the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce among them, Mr. State Secretary? It is very important to know this, because let's face it, the money came back to you on an adventurous journey, you bought securities, you bought Hungarian government bonds, and then you got it back in HUF. But how? No forint can be attributed to the securities account. Did someone order you to give Quaestor their treasury bill? Someone brought it in, like the Attorney General said, to get it out of the Quaestor, so maybe someone brought the Quaestor's money into the Treasury in a suitcase? What could have happened to this money? I think that in terms of the amount of public money that we have to be clear. [[13.20]] This money was embezzled in Quaestor because Quaestor would have paid about one and a half percent higher interest margin than the Hungarian state would have paid. 58 million forints would have been useful. Who was it for? Did you know about this, Mr. Secretary? And most importantly, as your minister said: when they saw that forints had arrived instead of securities, they were very surprised. That's what he said in the paper. You're so surprised, Mr. Secretary, you didn't do anything. They didn't do anything until March 22. The first time they filed a complaint was when it had been made public in the press several times without being able to deny it. The reason you filed a complaint at that time was simply because you couldn't avoid it at that time. My last thought, Mr. Secretary, is that the Quaestor victims, who took their money from the Quaestor at the last minute, are now being sued by the liquidator. I'm sure you'll be suing the State Department as well, since you took it out at the last minute. I'm asking you to help them. What will your legal argument be when, for 3 billion HUF 800 million, the liquidator will sue you the same way as all the other small investors? Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-03-29-6	On behalf of the Government, Minister of State, Hungarian Levente will respond. Here you go.
u2016-03-29-7	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for the floor. Inadvertentness and ingenuity may prevail in the MSZP if, at the end of March 2016, they have concluded that it is relevant and important to ask this question as an address before the agenda. But, of course, we are happy to inform you of exactly what happened, not in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but in Quaestor, with the sovereign debt deposited by the trading house. Honourable Congressman, I would like to state some basic facts, as we have had the opportunity and the chance to do on several occasions over the past year. There seems to still be a need to say these things over and over again, but we are happy to do so. First of all, the Hungarian National Trading House held sovereign debt at Quaestor in a completely legal manner, which was fully recovered from Quaestor. The answer to your question about how he got it back is very simple. He got it back by transferring the consideration of these sovereign debt back to the trading house. This is not a complicated operation, honourable Member. I would also like to state that the Hungarian National Trading House is not a background institution of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. You know that wrong, Congressman. I propose that you study the Statute of the Ministry, the Statute of the Government and the relevant documents before asking a question about this. The trading house is a majority state-owned company which happens to be supervised by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Once again, the trading house kept its capital in sovereign debt at Quaestor, in uninfected corporate bonds, and as such, as an investment in the form of sovereign debt, or the parking of money to any Hungarian citizen, there was no disadvantage in the fact that these sovereign debt and the consideration of sovereign debt were transferred back to the trading house by the company. By the way, the press reports say that any other entity, individual, company, municipality that held its assets in a similar form in sovereign debt at Quaestor has received it back, in full the sovereign debt or their consideration. Honourable Congressman, I think that all other points are of a technical nature with technical answers. I would like to emphasise once again that neither a Hungarian citizen in the form of an irresponsible management of public money, nor in such a way that he has not received any money because of the reimbursement of sovereign debt, has suffered no disadvantage or damage, and everything on the part of the trading house has been done in compliance with the legislation. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-29-8	Mr Soltész, on behalf of the KDNP, is now in the line of speeches before the agenda: Responsible for the nation or irresponsiblely for Europe. Congressman's got the floor.
u2016-03-29-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, 26 years ago, the first free parliamentary election took place in these days. After five decades, after the communist-socialist dictatorship, there was clearly a huge expectation in people. The desire for freedom was understandable, the confidence in the multi-party system, the trust in democracy was understandable, and the sympathy for several Western European countries was also understandable. Even today, even after 26 years, a sane person cannot question, say that it would be better to go back to the previous period; these efforts were not justified. It is also necessary to see how left-wing socialist-liberal politicians and parties have destroyed over the last few years and are destroying the confidence and faith in the current democratic arrangement. The left-wing parties have restricted freedom for fifty years, and today they seem to have become advocates of human rights, their behaviour has crippled the defence capabilities and reflexes of the states, and so-called equal treatment is used to help the activities of criminals and terrorists, and to help the occupation of Europe. The left-wing parties destroyed private businesses for decades, and then the Hungarian nation's wealth was played out to their domestic and international friends of principle. Freedom has been replaced with freedom, the laws of nature have been twisted, the moral values of millennia have been destroyed, the so-called genderideology has been created, where no man, woman, child, no one who marries whom, whom he adopts. They're making it almost mandatory. This is the state in which the emerging unliving society, the self-defeating European countries, faced the booming migration crisis. The left here has done neither for the safety of the people in Europe nor for Hungary. Here in Hungary, they did not support the temporary border closure, they did not support the tightening of immigration legislation, they did not support the stricter punishment for smuggling people, they did not support the involvement of soldiers in protecting the country, and they did not support the constitutional amendment related to the threat of terrorism. Those socialists, or their friends of principle, left-wing politicians who now sit in other parties, recently, 12 years ago, on December 5, 2004 refused their own national counterparts, did not want them, and do not want to give them Hungarian citizenship or voting rights. And now they are calling for the resettlement of people from a completely different culture with completely different views in Hungary. For the record, Ferenc Gyurcsány again campaigns and collects signatures against Hungarians across the border. In the European Union, their principle friends still do not recognise the danger caused by mass immigration. They see no correlation between terrorism and immigration. They want to impose compulsory resettlement quotas on societies, countries, so that it is completely unlawful, incomprehensible, and, if you look at the numbers, it is completely unnecessary. They do not realise the tragic consequences and dangers of what happened in Paris, Cologne or, unfortunately, a few days ago in Brussels. The statement by Martin Schulz, President of the European Parliament, who is a socialist and social democrat, will also contribute to this, which will attack our country on both sides. On one side, he says that Szeged is a committed left-wing city, where any refugee can be sent; László Botka is a politician who would welcome them. The other attack called the Hungarian government's initiative on the quota deficit absurd and despicable. The question is what Hungarian politics, Hungarian left-wing parties, have to say about this. [[Zoltán Grimlock: And what does the Pope say?]] So far, I have not heard the protests of either the Szeged or the national socialist politicians saying that they do not want to install me there. I have not heard their protest that the attempt to combat democracy is not to have a referendum in Hungary, there is no way to organise a referendum. The question is whether the left will continue to play politics against the people, whether it will continue to oppose all Hungarians, and whether the counter-terrorism action plan will be supported in the next few days. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.30]]
u2016-03-29-10	On behalf of the government, I give the floor to Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör.
u2016-03-29-11	Honourable Congressman, On behalf of the left, I do not wish to answer, but allow me to respond to a few of your sentences. After the tragedy in Paris and last week in Brussels, perhaps the left-wing opposition parties do not deny that there is a clear link between unlimited immigration and an increase in the threat of terrorism. It wasn't always like that. I would like to quote Ference Gyurcsány, who said on 25 November last year, a few months ago, to hold on to the idea: "You must be more afraid of dog dirt than of terrorists. He said that in Szombathely. He said that today we know that he was recruiting in Budapest as one of the main organizers of the attacks in Paris. It is now clear that terrorist acts include people who came along the green border with immigrants, commuting between the Middle East and Europe, often cheating on loose regulation and often using false documents. International security experts have also drawn attention to the fact that mass immigration increases the terrorist threat. Europol registers between 500 and 600 people who are somehow associated with terrorist acts, and one is a large number of terrorists. Hungary has recognised this threat and decided to close the green borders accordingly, but the protection of the borders is no longer enough. Brussels' lessons must be learned, because citizens rightly expect the government to strengthen the security of everyday life. That's why the Cabinet decided on the counter-terrorist action plan. This action plan also includes staff development, asset development and technical improvements, and means strengthening TEK and facilitating more efficient information flow. The government also decided to set up a counterterrorism information and crime center. This will be the task of analysing the information received and supporting the work of law enforcement bodies. With this counter-terrorist action plan, the government will ask for no less or more instruments than is available to governments in other EU countries. Therefore, we should rightly hope for a supportive attitude of the left-wing opposition. However, the thing is, at least on the basis of the statements that have been made so far, that the left opposes this counter-terrorist action plan. It is the same left that had previously taken away the dangers of immigration, which supported the introduction quota and which opposed the creation of a border barrier. Then we ask ourselves what else needs to happen in order for the left to take into account the safety of families instead of the narrow political interests. A Commissioner, honourable Member, the government's proposals on the counter-terrorist action plan, the detailed proposals will soon be made public and the necessary consultations with the parliamentary parties will begin. For us, the safety of the Hungarian people comes first. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP. Intercoms from the same place.]]
u2016-03-29-12	Zsolt Németh, on behalf of Fidesz, applied for a pre-meeting speech: after all, Hungary will comply with the title Dublin III. Congressman's got the floor.
u2016-03-29-13	Mr President, Dear House, The terrorist attack in Brussels has once again highlighted the dramatic risks of migration, as we have heard from the words of the State Secretary here. I hope that there will be greater cooperation from the opposition on both the counter-terrorist action plan and the constitutional amendment in the future. It also highlighted the extent to which the referendum on which 2 million Hungarian citizens voted was signed. There are basically two EU achievements at stake in the fight against migration. One is the Schengen system, and the other is the Dublin system. I would like to say a few thoughts about the Dublin system. In recent years Hungary is clearly part of the list of Member States that follow the law, the Hungarian national measures have often become precedents, and the European Union has ultimately adopted the solutions that Hungary has developed. I consider it a very serious achievement to set up the European Union Border Guard and Border Surveillance Agency, which Hungary, for example, has stressed from the very beginning. In the context of the Dublin system, I would like to draw attention to the fact that Hungary has laid down in a regulation the first in Europe the need to extend the list of safe countries of origin and third countries. I would like to draw the attention of this House to the fact that on 17 March the European Court of Justice delivered a very important, precedental judgment. In this regard, the European Court of Justice has held that the inadmissibility investigations which are being carried out in the case of a migrant may also take place if a refugee is accepted within the framework of the Dublin system. This decision was specifically expressed by the European Court of Justice in relation to a Pakistani resident who entered Hungary illegally from the direction of Serbia in August 2015. First, he submitted an application for international protection to the Hungarian authorities, and then, not even waiting for the end of the Hungarian procedure, he left for the Czech Republic without permission. The Czech authorities handed him over to the Hungarian authorities in the context of the Dublin procedure initiated under the above circumstances. The Hungarian authorities rejected the request as inadmissible and expelled the Pakistani citizen to Serbia, which is considered a safe third country. The applicant appealed to the court against the decision. The court in Debrecen, suspending its proceedings, referred a preliminary ruling to the European Court of Justice in December 2015, asking, in particular, for guidance as to whether the Member State is still entitled to examine whether the person seeking international protection came from a safe third country after receiving it under the Dublin system. In its judgment, therefore, the court states that the fact that a Member State, in compliance with the Dublin rules, as the Member State responsible takes over an applicant from another Member State, does not prevent the Member State responsible from subsequently taking over the applicant in Dublin III. Send it to a safe third country in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. With this judgment, I think the European Court of Justice has clearly confirmed the Hungarian solution. And hopefully, when the Dublin system is being revised again, and it is expected that it will present the European Commission's proposal on the reform of the Dublin system in April, I think that we may have a solid hope that this Hungarian solution, which aims to substantially expand the list of safe third countries or countries of origin, will have a general European acceptance. Is that correct, Mr. Secretary? Is there any chance that Hungarian solutions will be generally accepted in the framework of the reform of the Dublin system? [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-29-14	Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, responds. Here you go.
u2016-03-29-15	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As Mr President has said, not everything around the Dublin Convention is clear and not everything can be applied. The Convention was drawn up at a time when a much smaller number of immigrations were expected and no difficulties were anticipated when large masses of non-cooperative ethnic groups arrived on the Union territory. Nor have they studied whether the protection of the Schengen border and compliance with the Dublin Convention are compatible. We saw these terrible examples last year, when hundreds of thousands of crowds were pouring through Hungary, when we registered them in record numbers in compliance with the Dublin Convention, but just because of the non-cooperative behaviour of the other Member States, such as the Willkommenskultur problem, even the minimal cooperation skills that might have been expected were lost. We have met a situation where it was clear that the Dublin Convention could be called dead, since no one respected it and could not defend the Schengen borders. Therefore, at that time the Parliament adopted a legislative package. I would just remind my fellow Members here that at that time we had to develop the concept of a crisis caused by mass immigration, we had to modify the rules for crossing the border, we had to establish transit zones in order to actually develop those zones where we can assess applications in an accelerated procedure, in accordance with the relevant EU directive, of course. [[13.40]] In addition, as regards smugglers, we had to introduce very tough rules on illegal border crossings in order to be serious about the fact that Hungarian laws must be respected, the Schengen borders must be respected. The effective protection of the state's border has therefore been achieved, we have been able to fast-track the examination of applications, we can sanction illegal border crossings. However, the extent to which the Dublin Convention needs to be amended, despite our compliance with the provisions of the Schengen Convention, we have established these laws within the framework of the Dublin Convention, but there are still different discussions and infringement procedures on the part of the Commission at different stages that are virtually non-interpretable compared to the size of the problem. So that the Dublin Convention must be reformed, and perhaps, as we have done at Member State level, it would justify these particular attacks, which, obviously, could be motivated by a kind of injury, let us just think of our quota trial, where we also did not fit in the main line, and today the other Member States are on their way to see that this is justified, justified, that they cannot draw upon themselves a set of problems that have peaked in terrorism, such as the attack in Paris or Brussels. But we can also think of acts that violate public criminal law, such as New Year's Eve in Cologne, which has shocked us all over Europe. And if we think a little about the policy of silence or the kind of non-self-critical attitude of the Western press that did not override their previous position, then we can see that there is also a kind of silence, so there can be a lot more cases that would actually support the Hungarian position, which also points in this direction. So we hope that, indeed, in the course of this review and review, we will be able to incorporate into the regulation several elements that are designed to preserve the Schengen acquis, as we should think about the freedom of movement of persons and goods within Europe, and the questioning and endangering of this, I believe that it would undermine one of the Union's main values. So we are confident that the reform of the Dublin Convention will lead to the direction in which we have already achieved significant results. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-29-16	Dear House, The last speech before today's agenda will be made by MEP Ádám Mirkóczki, member of the Jobbik Group, which is no longer called loyalty, but support for crime. Congressman's got the floor.
u2016-03-29-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I asked for the floor today to draw attention to the very important problem that has been going on for six years in the field of Roma integration contracts, spending money or abuse. Everyone has often brought this problem up in many ways, and you seem to either refuse to acknowledge the abuse that is taking place, or you acknowledge it, and this is the price of a certain thing for which you protect those affected, you let those responsible get away with it. Obviously, there's a reason for that, and it's gonna come out sooner or later. One thing can be said: the greatest enemy of Hungarian Gypsyism and the greatest threat to integration in Hungary today is the gypsy political elite left to roost by you. Respect for the exception and respect for all national Roma local government workers who are trying to do decent work and do work for this very important social issue, but unfortunately this is completely ineffective, because the people who make meaningful decisions within the National Roma Municipality are all a kind of marionette puppet, since all of them are moved from the background by Flória Farkas without exception, the substantive decisions are made by him, the substantive contracts and other documents are signed by him. Of course, it is possible to consider responsibility, to spread responsibility, and to deny those responsible, I would like to remind you that we were not the ones who had a strategic partnership with those bastards who have been abusing these millions for many years now, we were not the ones who made Florian Farkas prime minister, and we are not the ones who continue to defend the indefensible, and are doing everything to ensure that things do not change substantially, and that the series of theft, fraud and crime continue. I would say that loyalty is a beautiful thing, even a very important human virtue and an example of human greatness, but what you are doing on this issue is long ago not loyalty, but absolution. And this is an act of Btk, and I would like to draw the attention of those involved. We can ask the rhetorical question as to why. Obviously there is a reason, and obviously there is no man in Hungary today who believes that you will leave it out of the goodness of some people or some small groups to abuse and raid hundreds of millions of dollars, whether in the European Union or in Hungary. Obviously, I ask the rhetorical question, and I do not expect an answer, but I would like to say, for the sake of the record, whether this is not the price of all, that, in the course of either interim or ordinary elections, the two major social groups, who can influence an election outcome in substance, one of which is the retirement society, and the other is the Hungarian gypsy society in proportion to the number of souls. Isn't the job of Flórian Farkas to take this social group to the polling booths and turn a blind eye to everything he's been doing for many years? I don't expect an answer, and I really appreciate honesty. Therefore, the National Roma Municipality could now safely be baptized as the local government of the cheap Roma Voks. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]] That's what this is really about. In fact, you guys have been making the whole social integration process worse. What we propose and in order to minimise the damage - if this damage can be called small - all the movable and immovable property of the National Roma Municipality should be immediately recovered, seized; all pending applications should be stopped, and those responsible should be immediately held liable, and immediately answer to all sections of the justice system and in front of them. What we are proposing - and I trust that we will not be alone with this - is that this whole series of corruption scandals, which has been going on for years, must also be examined at parliamentary level in the framework of a committee of inquiry. I live with the suspect trial, and, of course, I can only speak in a conditional manner: we believe that Flórian Farkas has a serious responsibility for this amazing series of thefts, and that Flórian Farkas can continue to run amok and continue this activity, and Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has a major role to play in this. I trust that you, too, consider justice, discernment and order to be important. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-29-18	In response, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2016-03-29-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I originally planned to talk only about the project itself, but in your speech I must inevitably say a sentence about Jobbik's policy on Gypsy and Roma society, which came out of your speech. There are two ways in which you can, it seems, view the domestic gypsy, which we completely reject, this kind of simplification and enemy-hunting. One is the square of cheap votes and the other is a group of haters, according to which Jobbik is trying to get votes in Hungary. Both can be used politically, although none can be accepted and this is not acceptable to the Fidesz-KDNP value community. Jobbik was obviously trying to get into Parliament with the latter, obviously he intends to continue this later, but this will not bring us any closer to the solution. At the same time, projects that have been well implemented would bring Hungary, the whole society closer, and here I would split my answer to the question you raised into two parts. One is the setting of targets for this project, and then the steps, measures and errors related to its implementation. Besides, I find it completely strange, even from the point of view of political timing or political tactics, that Jobbik will come up with this issue after the government has finally withdrawn from this grant agreement. [[13.50]] I think that if there is bad timing, it is precisely when similar kinds of awkward winking speeches are worth saying here in Parliament. [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] Let's look at the first part, what the government has given money for, because this is about public money, and these must be spent as efficiently as possible, each can spend his or her own money, but with the public money it must be used in an efficient and purposeful way. This is why the government has supported a project in a grant agreement, which had several beneficiaries, which set the objective of establishing an employment cooperative, I do not think anyone would dispute it; it has set the objective of involving 1,800 people in the development, I do not think anyone would dispute it; and it has set the goal of acquiring 600 successful OKJ skills in such areas as plumbing, woodworking, sculpting, waterproofing. [[György Szilágyi: What is happening?]] [[György Szilágyi: What is happening?]] , a warm coat, a vegetable and fruit processing, a trained sewing or trained kitchen accompaniment, and I could still list for a long time the skills that need, need, and which could have been obtained by unemployed people who have been unemployed for years or decades. (György Szilágyi: What is happening?) The government's responsibility for the assessment of the aid was to the point where it set these targets when it defined indicators that the performers had to carry out. For this reason, I think that this was a very good and useful goal, what the government has done in relation to this project. [[György Szilágyi: Who stole the money? The president's ringing the bell.]] And then, during the implementation, there were continuous checks, supporters, EMMI, Prime Minister's Office, NAV, OLAF, a lot of people turned around the house of this project and examined the various regularity. We on the part of EMMI or the Prime Minister's Office, several of us on the part of EMMI, compliance with the grant agreement, compliance with the guidelines, compliance with the GTC; we also carried out on-the-spot checks, we went to the regional offices where the employment cooperative had to operate, and it was found that the employment organisation had been set up, that the project had started with encouraging signs, and that it had not been maintained after a short period of time. Even though the fund on which I believe these socially useful elements could have been implemented was created, the recipient did not fulfil his maintenance obligation here, and this employment cooperative did not fulfil the task for which the aid was granted. Here in Parliament, we have talked about dozens of procedures that the supporters have carried out to protect public funds, and this has become the conclusion that the supporter has finally stopped. This means that the contract is invalid with retroactive effect at the date of conclusion and any advance payments previously paid [[György Szilágyi: Who is responsible? He's right behind you!]] , they must be repaid precisely because the reservation was not realized, despite the creation of a good organisation, despite the creation of an important employment cooperative, without which it is more difficult to achieve these goals, they did not maintain them, and they did not receive the means, material assets, that they needed in the course of operation after the set-up. This is indeed a huge amount of money, since the clearance of accounts included more than two billion dollars. For this reason, we have convened a number of consultations between the consortium leader and the partners on the exact timing of repayment, and we are also discussing the reimbursement of the expenditure carried out and justified, as well as the future of programmes for the employment of Roma people and the future of the Roma employment cooperative, because we believe they are important. [[György Szilágyi: Who is responsible?]] But we cannot accept irregularities from any organization. Thank you very much. [[György Szilágyi: Who is responsible? Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-29-20	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2016-03-29-21	Dear Parliament, Today's speech following the agenda was submitted by Rushin soloist Giricz Vera; László György Lukács, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Gergely Farkas, Jobbik. On Wednesday, the following representatives applied for a speech before the agenda: Attila Móring József, KDNP; Ágnes Kunhalmi, MSZP; Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP; Lajos Rig, Jobbik; István Németh Szilárd, Fidesz. On Wednesday, Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik applied for a speech after the agenda.
u2016-03-29-22	Dear House, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear House, A decision on a personal proposal will not take place today. Now, at 1:55 p.m., we're going to proceed to the discussion of interpellations, immediate questions. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that, as the Speaker of Parliament, the provisions of the House Rules of Decision 121. Mr László György Lukács, Member K/9585. I have rejected the written question submitted to the Minister for National Development because the motion is not within the minister's remit. Dear Parliament, Csaba Tóth, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. What does Zugló get with his key government investments? It's an address. Congressman Csaba Tóth has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-03-29-23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Zugló is one of the capital's largest [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] and the most populous district, where nearly 125,000 people live. The district is also the location of two priority government projects, both of which have already begun. One is the construction of the new Puskás Stadium, where old, useless buildings are currently being demolished, in many places already in life-threatening condition. The new stadium is planned to accommodate 65,000 viewers, where all viewers will be able to sit indoors as required by the European Football Federation. For many years there has not been such a large stadium for tens of thousands of people in Budapest. If this crowd comes to the stadium, we're gonna need new parking lots. However, they did not think of this, since there were no parking lots planned for the new Puskás Stadium area, which is already a serious problem in the area. It is enough to think that if in the Papp László arena there is a 12,000-person event or 5-10 thousand-person event in the Syma Hall next to it, then everything is clogged up. The new stadium, as the government commissioner responsible for the investment said earlier, could also host the matches of the European Championship in 2020, as well as the concerts and international productions of world stars that had not yet been able to come to Budapest in the absence of a suitable facility. Another key government investment is the Liget Budapest project. It is expected that if the new museum district is built, some 1.5 million new visitors will be expected each year. The City Park is now almost impossible to approach, and not only if it is the venue of a major event; thousands of people per day, more than ten thousand people per weekend. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] seek to relax, relax, play sports or just spend your free time. Parking in the area hasn't solved at the moment, causing a huge problem for the people living there. If the planned investment increases significantly the number of people visiting the Liget, this problem will only increase. Priority government investments involving Zugló cost hundreds of billions of HUF each. There are several traffic nodes in the district, and this is where the M3 motorway flows. Many thousands of people therefore use the district as a parking lot, but there is no P+R parking space for this purpose capable of receiving a significant number of vehicles. The current, often catastrophic parking situation, which causes the Zuglós a great deal of annoyance and inconvenience, will also increase the implementation of the two priority projects. Zugló will be completely plugged in, and you will be able to get to an event with hours of reaping and parking search. In view of what has been said, I ask the honourable Secretary of State: what do you intend to do to ensure that priority locations and events can be approached and parked at all by those arriving there? How much of the hundreds of billions of forints of investment is devoted to solving these problems to alleviate the annoyance of people in Zugló? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-03-29-24	State Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-03-29-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I believe that I have good news for all of us, because we have already focused on this in the past and in the future. The Zugló transport concept was reviewed in 2011 precisely to improve the conditions on which Mr President spoke. The new Škoda Solaris trolleybuses have been renewed and extended through tram line 1, Dózsa György út and the Liget, and the renovated Thököly road now runs the city's most modern, environmentally friendly Volvo and Mercedes buses. [[14.00]] In addition, the Mór Balázs plan, the long-term transport concept of the capital city, contains further significant improvements for the future. As you said, the Puskás Ferenc Stadium is renewed. Here it will be a world-class establishment, whether from the point of view of sporting events or from the point of view of other cultural events featuring world stars. Four years from now, even the continent's football team will be hosted by a complex, but in addition to the immediate environment, 8 hectares will be renovated, new green surfaces will be created, which the local population can enjoy, not just tourists. This is why it is important to resolve the transport situation, but the current professional trends in the world are not so much about access to the car but also about the service of public transport. For installations of this magnitude within the city, congestion, environmental pressures and environmental damage can be resolved primarily by developing this. That is why the government is spending HUF 15 billion trying to solve these transport problems. During the development of the City Park, the government has a strong focus on transport. From the start of the project, transport investments will be prepared in a separate working group within the framework of the strategic agreement with the BKK. The growth of visitors in the preparatory studies and projected in the development programme can be served by the current continuous development of the public transport network after the development, all the more so because the planned renovation of the Millennium underground line 1 and the development of the vehicle park will also result in the construction of the new stop serving the City Park and tram 1. The changes that increase public transport capacities are also important, namely that the MÁV plans to establish a new railway station on the outskirts of Városliget, near the Károly Róbert Boulevard, serving both Vác and Szolnok lines, which makes it easier to get to Városliget, both from the Western Railway Station and from the suburbs. As the Member pointed out, the biggest traffic problem arises from the use of the City Park and the 50-sixth Square as free P+R parking spaces. A real P+R parking lot will be established along the M3 road for this solution, the location designation and financing of which are currently being discussed. Parking places in the north of the Liget, in the neighbourhood of the new Pannon Park, in the vicinity of the Transport Museum, and in the area of the Fifty-Six, are also three places under the green surfaces that are free of surface parking. We also want to solve the parking of the tourist buses, and the situation is not in order as it is now. The temporary parking space next to the Műcsarnok building will be arranged in Vágány utca, using the MÁV areas, extending the road path. Here, buses will be able to park in a civilized manner. On the whole, as I said, Congressman, it represents an extra source of HUF 15 billion. I believe that both for the development of public transport and for the civilised management of car traffic and for the resolution of parking problems, we can not create a spontaneous, disorganized, but also a conscious and more favourable way for the Zuglós, so please accept my answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-03-29-26	I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2016-03-29-27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I listened very carefully to the Secretary of State's words. I couldn't get too many cheerleaders out of them right now. Intention is good. We would like to see this happening in the district, but at the same time I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the parking lot at the Arena of Budapest is 1200 seats, which is already impossible to reach in connection with an event. There's only a narrow entrance, a narrow path, so it's impossible to park. Even though public transport is being developed, this is not going to improve, because people are coming from the countryside. As far as City Park is concerned, I am glad to hear that underground garages and parking garages will be built in the area, but I'm sure you'll miss the fact that there's no parking zone in Zuglo at the moment - it's in every neighborhood - so no one will park in parking garages and underground garages until you can park on the surface for free in the area. And that crowd, that tumult that's there, it's not gonna get any better, and it's not gonna change anything if there's no change in that respect. And another thought. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] that in amending the budget, [[The president's ringing again.]] Every year I submitted an amendment to the construction of parking spaces...
u2016-03-29-28	Congressman, you've just exceeded your time, please...
u2016-03-29-29	.......................................................................................................................................... In a corner. So far, it's always been voted off...
u2016-03-29-30	... finish your speech in time!
u2016-03-29-31	...I trust they will this year. I don't accept the answer. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-03-29-32	The congressman didn't accept the answer. I ask the House whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has adopted the answer by 112 votes to 36, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Gábor Staudt, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:, Let's clear the air: who are the real beneficiaries of the often ten billion-dollar business? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, the representative of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister, who is responsible and competent according to the subject, responds to the interpellation. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-29-33	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, On the basis of the idea of Antal Rogán, in the summer of 2012, the settlement government bond scheme was created, which was surrounded by suspicions of corruption from the beginning, while the governing parties sang praises about how much jobs the programme would create. The practical implementation, however, exceeded our wildest imagination. In the beginning, not foreign representations, but mostly offshore companies were entrusted with the sale of bonds, and these companies were authorised by the Economic Commission led by Antal Rogán. I would just like to mention a few countries that include these companies: Cayman Islands, Singapore, Malta, Cyprus. And if that is not enough, the bonds are sold at discount prices to the intermediary companies by the Hungarian State, so they pocket 9 million forints on the front end per bond. And that's what the commission of around EUR 45-60 thousand comes to realize, but we also heard in the press about 70,000 euros of mediation fees. The reason for this is that, under current legislation, intermediary companies can determine the level of commission themselves, which in a fully monopoly market is itself a corruption-prone regulation. According to the above, the specific figures of the revenue generated by the intermediary companies are not known, but according to the estimates of the professional press, this amount could be close to HUF 100 billion, which represents a combined commission level of 25-30 per cent for companies with several offshore backgrounds. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Who's behind them?]] The most tragic thing is that the government doesn't think it's public money, because those who want to settle down pay the commission with their own money. This is a completely false claim, since the State is practically selling out the right of establishment, selling a discount, the income of which can be regarded as public money as the consideration of a concession contract. The situation is exacerbated by the fact that concrete analyses have already been published in the press that have revealed personal links between intermediary companies and Antal Rogán and Árpád Habony. On the basis of the above, I ask the Secretary of State to answer the following questions honestly and substantially. What has been achieved from the promises of a sound job creation of the settlement government bond programme? Why did they hire offshore companies to sell them? Do you intend to draw up a statement of exactly how much commission has landed in these companies? Don't you think, Secretary of State, that the specific statements that have been published in the press and which link these companies to Árpád Habony and Antal Rogán on a personal basis are very unpleasant? I look forward to your respect and merit, Secretary of State. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-03-29-34	I give the floor to State Secretary Csaba Dömötör.
u2016-03-29-35	Honourable Congressman, Allow me to clarify a few things about the settlement bond scheme. First of all, and perhaps that's the most important thing, this program brings money to the country and doesn't take a single penny of public money. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Who's taking him?]] In this sense, it is completely different from your Béla Kovács program, which has brought money into the country, at least to Jobbik, but it is not known what they asked for in return. [[János Halász: That's right!]] There is no way around it that this bond scheme has brought more than HUF 200 billion in revenue to the Hungarian State since its introduction. One significant advantage of the programme is that no interest is payable on the bonds sold for five years, thus reducing the government's interest expenditure. [[Dr. András Schiffer: What about offshore companies?]] These benefits can also contribute to Hungary's not having to issue foreign bonds. Those who make use of the establishment will also use financial services in Hungary and may also start investing in Hungary. This can also have a positive impact on the budget. As far as intermediaries are concerned, it is international practice to entrust this activity to intermediaries in all countries. The market price of the company's commission fees is the result of which the State has no influence. It is an important circumstance that the Parliament's Economic Committee has made a public decision on the programme of settlement bonds, and anyone who looks at the minutes can see that opposition parties, including Jobbik, have made no proposals and have not voiced any criticisms. [[György Szilágyi: Who was the head of the Economic Committee?]] [[14.10]] Honourable Congressman, From its interpellation, you feel that transparency is important, that companies operate legally and transparently. If that is so, why not question one of Jobbik's present representatives, who founded and ran several companies that were then phantomized in company graveyards with significant unpaid tax returns? [[Dr. András Schiffer: Kisvárdán?]] Under these circumstances, better points of transparency are not credible. If transparency is really important to you, then, above all, there is work to be done in the House of the Jobbik Presidency. Thank you for your attention. [[György Szilágyi: Let's celebrate the 12 billion! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-29-36	In return, I give the floor back to Mr. Staudt Gábor.
u2016-03-29-37	Thank you very much. Of course, I cannot accept the answer. He told us the templates we've heard a thousand times and they're completely liars. [[Interviews in the ranks of Fidesz.]] I have to say, the 200 billion coming in as a loan that needs to be repaid, and 100 billion staying as a commission for offshore brokerage companies, it's not a good business, or just for those companies. If you have already mentioned Béla Kovács, undersecretary, our offer remains: let Béla Kovács be a committee of inquiry, lead by you, but, for example, let us set up this committee investigating the establishment offshore company - we have submitted to Parliament - and we would like to lead it. I think it's a fair offer. If you don't accept that, then everything else is just a word in the air, and it actually involves your apology. So, Mr Secretary of State, I cannot accept this answer, and I do not think that the voters will be able to. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-29-38	I ask the House whether it accepts the Secretary of State's reply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 111 votes to 38, with one abstention. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Szél and Erzsébet Schmuck, representatives of the LMP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office. It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor.
u2016-03-29-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, They feel rightfully deceived by public service workers, because the promised career again will not be as promised by the government and personally by Minister János Lázár. Today, the government considers it a much more urgent task to cut red tape, which in your interpretation means pledging ministerial background institutions and dismissals of employees. That's not what they promised. Last March at the meeting of the Civil Service Stakeholder Forum, Minister, you spoke about the fact that from 1 July 2016 the single public service career will enter into force, resulting in a net increase of 30 per cent for government officials. It has also been said that since the settlement of the wage situation of the lowest-income or rank district office or government office workers has not been postponed, before the introduction of the career model, i.e. in the first half of the year, a 50 percent increase is granted to 27 thousand government officials who are now earning just HUF 78,000 under the minimum wage. And then in January, the black soup came. Instead of consulting on a civil service career, your ministry has made an unexpected announcement: a reduction in the number of people working in the public administration, a reduction of 150,000 people until the end of the cycle, and a closure of background institutions. The discussions on careers have been interrupted, and the new slogan of the government communication machine is cutting red tape and a competitive state. We have also seen that there is only one thing that is predictable in Minister Lazarus's announcements: unpredictability. Whether you're talking about a state employee or a wage increase, we hear different numbers every time. According to the latest figures, not 80,000 government officials and 35,000 government officials will receive a wage increase this year - what they promised earlier - only one in seven employees. Nowhere is the budget planned for HUF 38 billion, but instead the 16,000 employees are planning to raise their wages by 10 percent. Why does the word mean nothing to you? Why are the workers being cheated on foot? Why don't you agree with the representation before the government to meet their legal obligations? Why are they rushing around one day promising wage increases and careers, and the next, putting thousands of layoffs on the table? My question is, what about the promises? Will public service workers, including municipal civil servants, receive a 30% wage increase? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Dr. András Schiffer applauds.]]
u2016-03-29-40	Minister János Lázár has the floor.
u2016-03-29-41	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank my fellow Member very much for this question, which gives me the opportunity to clarify some of the misunderstanding. First of all, I will inform the Parliament that the Government will shortly discuss the bill on the Government Administration of Officials and, during April, it is expected to refer it to Parliament in the second half of the month, which will be made available to the Civil Service Stakeholder Forum next Tuesday afternoon for discussion. So I can answer your first question immediately: with the participation of the Civil Service Stakeholder Forum, trade unions and other interest representatives, we will present to the Parliament the proposal that has been established since 1990, for the first time in 26 years the State Officials' Faculty. The state officials' faculty is not part of the municipal officials' faculty - to answer another question. Two things happen at the same time. One is the reduction of bureaucracy created by the state, partly by cutting offices and partly by removing bureaucratic rules. 110 laws have been amended in part by Parliament with your support; I will now propose to Parliament amendments to more than 85 laws. I believe that this can significantly reduce this year's bureaucratic burden on the shoulders of millions of our countrymen when dealing with 23 million cases each year. At the moment, 675 types of these cases can be dealt with in district offices, and as of 1 April, customers can turn to district offices for another 500 cases. Our proposal is as follows: while the state must rationalise central offices and budgetary offices simultaneously - I think there is a complete consensus in this - that the public water head should be smaller - the entry into the public administration office must begin, and we must ensure that, within the limits provided by the budget - today the budget will allow the Prime Minister's Office to use some HUF 25 billion from 1 July - we must start the wage increase with our employees, who are on the front line, who are looking for HUF 70-80-90 thousand. This will take place on 1 July. This is about 50 percent depending on who will have a higher education degree, who has a secondary education, who does what job. The Law on the Faculty of Public Officials lays a new foundation for responsibility, the obligation to continue training, the possibility of progress, and indeed, after teachers, policemen and soldiers, we offer a career that will provide a service for a young person and will provide a fixed career security. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the burden on officials will continue to increase. Our plans are to deal with two thousand cases at the district offices next year. On 1 January, we will be able to get government offices into the state officials' faculty, and I believe that by 1 January 2018 we will be able to get all state officials into this system. Today there are 17 thousand district government employees in Hungary, the number of which will be around 22 thousand on 1 July, given the increased capacity of district offices. On 1 January, around the same number of colleagues serving at the government office will enter the system and will enter the following year, those who will be on duty on 1 January 2018 in addition to working in the reformed central state apparatus. So we transform the center, the district offices and government offices get jobs, and we assign salaries to the tasks. This is our plan, and I ask for your support, and I assure you that we will fulfill our promise not only in words but also in actions. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-29-42	I ask Mrs. Congresswoman if she will accept the Minister's reply.
u2016-03-29-43	Mr Minister, your reply has shown that the promises to raise wages so far have not been and will not be fulfilled. At LMP, we see that we need a very serious, radical wage increase not only in general, but also among public servants in Hungary. There hasn't been a wage increase since 2008, wages have been extremely low. [[14.20]] We believe that these wages have a double, very serious negative effect. On one social policy side, it is not possible to make a living in Hungary today from the HUF 60-70-80-90 thousand, but it has a very serious negative impact on the economic side as the purchasing power is very weak in Hungary, and it would require a more radical increase in purchasing power in order for the economy to enter the development path. Since the Minister has not specifically answered my question of raising wages, I cannot accept his reply.
u2016-03-29-44	I ask the House whether it accepts the Minister's reply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has adopted the answer by 114 votes to 33 with one abstention. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:. Whose interests do the socialists represent in land affairs? It's an address. The congressman has the floor.
u2016-03-29-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, We are almost used to our left-wing colleagues systematically criticizing the land for farmers! In the context of a programme, land auctions are carried out. Unfortunately, farmers' access to land is not successful in parliament in opposition circles, just as previous land lease programmes were only attacked. Whether it is the exploitation of state land or national park areas, the opposition always shouts corruption about the measures to give Hungarian farmers land. Last year, when Parliament, on the proposal of our fellow Member Balázs Győrffy, sought to widen the possibilities of reviewing land leases, strengthening the positions of landowners and balancing the rent system that did not conform to market conditions, our socialist fellow Members were the loudest opponents. It's not a coincidence. They have tried to protect the interests of some 130 tenants who have come under their government to large, valuable land estates under very favourable, almost ridiculous conditions. Who knows what kind of backup deals the party is now failing by creating clearer conditions in the field of land leases? It is no wonder that our socialist fellow Members, with Zoltán Gőgös at their head, protested against all measures relating to land or land. Our fellow Member, mentioned above, was eager to travel the countryside, take photographs, and almost hunted suspected cases of abuse in connection with land leases on Hortobágy [[Moore from the ranks of the MSZP.]] However, he should not have done this not only as a representative, but also as a State Secretary at the time, let us say, the Danube-Ipoly National Bank [[Defiance from the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP. Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: Yes!]] The Danube-Ipoly National Park. In my constituency, Solymár and Nagykovácsi, there has been an unfinished compensation procedure for decades, where due to the related scandals the well-known Rozmaring Szökkezeti Vagyonkezelő Kft., which, to put it mildly, has changed creatively from the former Rozmaring Mgtsz. has acquired a right of trust in land protected by natural protection by means of a procedure which raises a strong suspicion of corruption as its successor. This was done in 2009 and Mr.Zoltán Gőgös, State Secretary at the time, did not mind that the property of the country, which has been protected by nature since 1985, had been used by the government. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] It's linked to socialist circles. owns it. Dear Secretary of State, How does the government ensure that Hungarian farmers can obtain land in clean conditions? What are the results of the portfolio's opposition charges against its programmes? Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-03-29-46	István Nagy, State Secretary, has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-03-29-47	Dear Parliament, My dear fellow Member, [[Noise.]] I would like to inform you that Rozmaring Agricultural Production Association and its successor, Rozmaring Szökkezeti Kft. the unfinished land-privatisation of its management area is essentially not due to failures by the determining authorities. Several appeals due to the cft. Unfortunately, the draft land fund separation has not yet been approved by a final decision. By decision of November 2015, the Office of Justice approved the draft administrative ground separation of the Budakes District Office of the Pest County Government Office and amended its previous decision by its decision of January 2016. Subsequently, a second-degree procedure was initiated following appeals addressed to the Minister for Justice, which is currently under way. The government will do everything in its power to give compensation and share owners access to the land they deserve. To this end, the portfolio will support the early closure of the land-privatisation processes after the change of system by all means at its disposal. The legal closure of the complex land-privatisation case, which has been dealt with for two decades, is closely monitored by the portfolio by all parties, so that the complex earth-rights problems left to us as a socialist heritage can be solved. It is no coincidence that the MSZP did not support our fellow Member Balázs Győrffy's proposal to review the very low rents, sometimes forints, which are so generously defined by them, and to adapt them to market conditions. It's obviously not good for old friends to pay real rent. But it's not the only fault of the MSZP. They have created a situation such as that which is currently being discussed, with the introduction of a lifesaver for the land under unthinkable conditions between 2002-2010, with which the state owns a number of unreliable, undivided common ownership shares. Of course, we are not debating the claim that the elderly people, who cannot cultivate their land, have rightly come up with, but the construction, it has to be admitted, has proved to be flawed. This tens of thousands of hectares of undivided joint ownership is now being tried by NFA for the farmers! Sell as part of a program. Contrary to the totally tangled, opaque land policy applied by the socialists, the current system is completely transparent, the land for farmers! The programme is open to the public and sells state-owned land through public auctions with a view to enabling small and medium-sized family farms to acquire property. Under equal conditions, farmers can buy land with a very favourable credit facility. Today, more than 10,000 people have landed the land for farmers! As part of the programme and this year's auctions, 1222 have already succeeded. I very much hope, my dear fellow Member, that I have given a satisfactory answer. Thank you very much for your attention, and I ask for my answer to be accepted. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-03-29-48	I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2016-03-29-49	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary of State. I must say, I was reassured by the determination that [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP. Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: Luck!]] The answer was obvious. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that in both the region of Nagykovácsi and Solymár, and especially in Solymár, compensation has not yet begun at all, perhaps the only place in the country that has not yet taken place. There is also a particular problem after the Rozmaring TSz. - Including Budapest - its scope covers a lot of areas, so once there is any compensation at all, not only the Solymarians, but everyone can participate in the current situation, so I would like the wallet to consider this aspect as well. I accept your reply with thanks. [[Applause from the pro-government benches. Zoltán Grimlock: Haven't you bought land yet?]]
u2016-03-29-50	Dear Parliament, Zsolt Legény, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:, Complete Chaos. The congressman has the floor.
u2016-03-29-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In fact, I would do the right thing by submitting my interpellation to two persons, to Minister of Agriculture Sándor Fazekas and Minister of Prime Minister János Lázár, because the fight of these two ministers for the MVH creates chaos in Hungarian agriculture, whose sufferers are none other than Hungarian farmers. The result of the personal struggle between the two ministers is that less support has been paid to Hungarian farmers so far than expected. They have put farmers in an extremely difficult position, who have a huge problem now that they have not had access to their money. In addition, in the case of new components such as greening, a warning of control was given to those involved instead of money. [[14.30]] Just to remind you, Minister of State: Before 2010, at the beginning of each year before the change of government, Hungarian farmers received more than 90% of the direct subsidies in February at the latest. Now, according to MVH, less than 60 percent of farmers received two thirds of the aid. This is a reversal, which is the result of a bad government policy. In addition, those who rely on some type of tender may see that the system is not working. The calls change daily, there are no application guides, the software for submission does not work, and important information only appears on the day of submission or on one weekend. This was the case last time in the case of gardening subsidies. The situation is under control by the wallet, you and your bad policy. That is why I am asking you, but I really wanted to ask the Minister: what is more important, the Minister's personal position, or the need for order? When will Hungarian farmers get their money? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you.
u2016-03-29-52	Once again, I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy.
u2016-03-29-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Let's get this straight. Between 2014-2020, the Hungarian share amounts to 3.2 percent of the total expenditure of the common agricultural policy. The CAP funds increased by 18 percent, to EUR 12.3 billion, to more than HUF 3800 billion. From 2015 onwards, however, not only has the aid increased, but also the number of different titles and their respective tasks. In addition to the already known system of area aid, the aid for climate and environmental beneficial agricultural practices, i.e. greening, young farmers, support for small farms and a system of production-related items, has emerged as a new element. All new schemes have required the creation of new legislation, new payment and control procedures, which are essential for the proper use of resources in line with EU principles. With regard to greening aid, I would like to remind you that this is one of the prices of a sustainable common agricultural policy. I recommend the Commission's financial statement on direct advance payments for 2015. This shows that Hungary is the bravest and most effective third in comparison with the EU-28. The weight of the control burden on the new system is well felt by the fact that in the Agriculture and Fisheries Council, at its various levels in the second half of 2015, the concern of the countries with high agricultural traditions and potential to allow the Commission to be more lenient in the case of so-called error rates than before. Honourable Congressman, Its finding for the period before 2010 is not adequate. On the one hand, 100 percent of farmers could not be paid in any year in February, as there are always prolonged cases, holding disputes, land use entitlement disorder. On the other hand, the exact amount of the payment is not fixed in advance, it is available in the envelope and it can only be determined, after the full assessment of all applications, at what scale the aid may be paid. This date can be set for June each year. It should therefore be pointed out that, while only two advance payments were made in different aid cases during the previous period, MVH already made eight different payments in 2015. Honourable Congressman, Government transformation isn't just about MVH. At present, more than 70 background institutions are being studied for more efficient operation, less bureaucracy. In the course of any transformation, the government will take a prudent decision in the interests of farmers and the effective implementation of the relevant programmes. Thank you very much for your attention, and I ask for my answer to be accepted. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-29-54	I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2016-03-29-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, We in this House can argue about things that we have talked about, but there is a fundamental difference. The fact that, as I mentioned, most of the area aid was not granted to farmers. They received about two thirds of the aid, but most of it was not received. This is a significant change compared to the period before 2010 [[Deterioration in the benches of the ruling parties.]] I could therefore accept your answer, but I will not accept it, because Hungarian farmers cannot accept your answer. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-29-56	I ask the House whether it accepts the reply of the Secretary of State. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 111 votes to 31, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister:. The Prime Minister's relations with Mr.Lőrinc Mészáros, István Tiborcz or the talents of Győző Orbán are subject to interest? It's an address. Congressman György Szilágyi has the floor.
u2016-03-29-57	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Some prominent politicians, their family members, and news of the scandalous acquisition of their business associates have recently become commonplace. The sense of justice of a large part of the public will not seem to calm down as long as, instead of correct, straight answers, the parties of government resort to the means of miscopy, denial or distraction. In particular, this is the case when the people in the Prime Minister's environment themselves see the brilliance and return of their success. Whether they are unusual and frequent orders or even gigantic-sized land purchases. Whether it is the Prime Minister's son-in-law, István Tiborcz, or Lőrinc Mészáros, who, according to his own statement, is in business with the Prime Minister's father, he is also renting land from him. The estates, which are rather large, sometimes with castles, which are precisely owned by the Tiborcz family and Lőrinc Mészáros, can also represent a target area for the so-called Talentis programme. The programme's technological parks, logistics parks, residential parks, hotels and golf courses are hundreds of billions of dollars' investment. Obviously, it is no coincidence that Lőrinc Mészáros' family members bought the entire Talentis Group. Talentis announces on its website that it will implement its plans from private and public sources, in cooperation between the private and public sectors. What is currently visible to the public in relation to Talentis from public sources is not a very encouraging picture, since for the establishment of Prince Talentis' incubator, an offshore company with a background in Cyprus, TPB Zrt., notified to the same headquarters as the Talentis Group. He received nearly half a billion forints of non-refundable funding. However, I would like to give you the opportunity to clarify the Prime Minister, to clarify the friendly, relative and business environment of the Prime Minister. So I ask the Secretary of State: when, from what sources and to what extent has the state financed the Talentis programme and the Talentis Group? What additional public funds do you intend to enrich the family of Lőrinc Mészáros? Is it expected that the estates of the Prime Minister's son-in-law, István Tiborcz, Lőrinc Mészáros, or even the Prime Minister's father, Győző Orbán, will be the target area for the large-scale investments of the Talentis programme? I look forward to your honest answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-29-58	I give the floor to State Secretary Csaba Dömötör.
u2016-03-29-59	Honourable Congressman, To tell you the truth, it's not easy for someone who wants to clean up what they're saying, because they're so mixed up in hallway hearsays, empty accusations, and misinterpretations. It confuses the plans of some private companies and issues of public engagement. And by the way, sometimes you get the feeling that you're acting like a joker who always thinks the same thing about everyone. However, I would like to clarify a few things, and I would like to make sure that the Government does not interfere in transactions between Hungarian private companies, and it would not be right to do so. Secondly, in general, the civilian government supports any initiative that creates value and creates new jobs for Hungary and the Hungarian people. The government believes that successful innovative businesses will strengthen the economic resilience and improve the country's competitiveness. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, whether it is public procurement or public procurement, the laws in force guarantee full transparency. [[14.40]] In contrast to previous practice, it is clear to everyone today who is running for public procurement, who wins over them, as well as who receives state aid. I hope you do not mind that there are many Hungarian businesses among them, which also create jobs. Speaking of transparency, this type of transparency cannot be said for your party. One of your fellow Members referred to the voters in one of his previous speeches; I do not know if your voters know that a significant part of Jobbik's budget resources, about a third of them in recent years, has flown to a group of companies linked to one mysterious businessman. As their spokesperson said, I would like to quote him, moonyard construction is taking place. So it's easy to assume that when Jobbik paints all sorts of mysterious mergers in the sky, it's actually based on its own questionable public money management practice. You're free to do all this, but that doesn't make you an unacceptable attitude. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-03-29-60	I give the floor to a representative of the court of rejoinder. Here you go.
u2016-03-29-61	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, that was very weak. He could have blamed the dog as much as Joseph Balogh did on the blind comandor at the women's beating. Why didn't you tell me the one-eyed squire needed such a large area to run around? [[Defiance from the opposition's benches.]] It would have had about as much reality as your recent sentences could have blamed the dog Narciss. He says it's private companies, private projects. This private project is such a private project that in the past around EUR 12 billion of EU funds have been allocated to its implementation. So, Mr. State Secretary, let us just say that you are constantly bluffing, constantly trying to hide what is uncoverable, and in the meantime, the new cases that lead to the enrichment and wealth growth of Viktor Orbán's environment are coming in line. You look like you haven't eaten well yet, the little ball can eat everything, you've spent the last six years just trying to fill the stomachs of friends, stromones and relatives. It looks like this will be the next two years, and it will end in 2018, when Jobbik will govern the country. [[Moore from the pro-government benches.]] I don't accept your answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-03-29-62	I ask this House whether they will accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The answer was adopted by 111 votes in favour, 35 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, István Hollik, a representative of KDNP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: It's an address. Congressman's got the floor.
u2016-03-29-63	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for the floor. I was pleased to hear these days that budget support for children's meals is continuing to increase. When we look at the facts, we are faced with the fact that no government has ever increased the amount of resources intended for child feeding. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] As the present does. In the central budget between 2010 and 14 HUF 83 percent, HUF 24 billion, and HUF 8 billion in 2015, the support of children's meals increased to HUF 61 billion. Hungary's budget for 2016 already provides an appropriation of HUF 71 billion to local authorities for certain expenses of institutional child feeding and out-of-institutional catering for children in need. During previous periods, opportunities were either scarce, or unfortunately there were times, such as when the left was governed, when those in power had little interest in the fate of children. Fortunately, the number of children in Hungary has never been given free or reduced food, as between 2010 and 15 the amount of central budget support for child meals has more than doubled. Mr Secretary of State, since last autumn, a wide range of children in kindergarten and kindergarten became newly entitled to a free meal, and with the new year's legislation, it also became a mandatory task for local governments to provide a holiday meal. In view of the regulatory changes in the past period, I would like to ask the Secretary of State about the change in the provision of disadvantaged and regular children with child protection benefits. How many children benefit from the free or discounted meals of children in kindergartens, kindergartens, primary and secondary schools, or do the holiday meals of children in need work well? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-03-29-64	In response, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári has the floor. Secretary Bence Rétvári's microphone, please.
u2016-03-29-65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Even the loudest opposition screamer cannot argue with the fact that today's spring break is the first spring break when we provide free children's meals with public resources in municipal organisation even at the time of the break for all those in need. During the previous period, the practice was that this was only realized during the summer break. Fidesz-KDNP also raised the amount of this aid to record height by 2014-15, which was HUF 3 billion, which exceeded the similar commitment of all previous governments. But we have just extended the possibility of free dining for spring, winter and autumn holidays from 1 January this year. We can also say that from now on, a new timeline will start in the free social meals, as from now on, children will receive free meals through the municipalities through central state resources in these remaining three breaks. According to recent data, a total of 2245 local governments have submitted their support requests for holiday meals, and we have calculated with this in the planning of the budget that 208 thousand children, who have not been given free food during spring, autumn and winter holidays, can expect this not only during the summer break, where more than 140 thousand children have participated in an extended period of social free catering, but can now also be achieved during the spring break for 200,000 students. The budgetary resources provided for this. This was based on the fact that, in the course of the Hungarian reforms, the performance of the economy already allows the government to provide a much larger share of these social expenditures from the budget. In 2014-15, as I said, he raised the holiday meal to a record height of HUF 3 billion precisely because we extended it to a wider circle, and now it is available not only during the summer but also during the small inter-annual breaks. Therefore, this amount was first raised to HUF 4.5 billion and then increased to reach all municipal authorities, since now it is a mandatory task to give children free meals. Therefore, a total of HUF 5.3 billion is available to cover holiday meals. A similar increase has already been experienced in the area of regular social catering, since it started from HUF 29 billion in 2010, which has doubled to HUF 58 billion by 2014-15, and now the value of the resources spent on social catering this year is HUF 72 billion, more than twice as much as when Fidesz-KDNP took over the responsibility of government. Obviously, there must be a purpose and an opportunity for someone to do this double, it seems that our ancestors did not have that. But based on the opportunity given to the current economic performance, the government intends to provide children with multiple meals in kindergartens, kindergartens and schools, so that for those who do not receive this at home, this basic condition of learning is that they can pay attention at school, receive that breakfast, lunch, snacks that enable them to listen to the teacher and learn. Fidesz-KDNP was able to create this several times compared to its predecessors. If I look only at children in kindergarten and kindergarten, the number of people receiving free meals has increased from 92,000 to 318 thousand, since it is for everyone in the family where the net income per person is less than 130 percent of the minimum wage. This means that anyone who has a family income per capita below HUF 95 960 is entitled to this allowance in kindergarten and kindergarten for young children. This is 90 percent of the circle involved. By the way, social care covers young people from 0 to 18 years of age, those who can benefit from it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-03-29-66	I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2016-03-29-67	Thank you. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Your response also confirmed that Fidesz-KDNP and the government really are the most important for families and children in families. This is why we have the most complex family support system in Hungary, which is why the government is continuing to negotiate to improve the public education system, and not least that is why the government and Fidesz-KDNP are committed to keeping no children hungry in Hungary. [[14.50]] The government measures you have mentioned, I see, serve this purpose well, so thank you very much, I accept your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-29-68	Dear Parliament, Bernadett Szél and Erzsébet Schmuck, representatives of the LMP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the National Economy:, Order budget: why does the Ministry of National Economy support the institutionalisation of theft? It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor.
u2016-03-29-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The LMP is incomprehensible to the bill submitted to the Parliament by the minister leading the Prime Minister's Office of János Lázár, which allows the re-alignment of the budget. Privateisation of public funds, removal from the public eye, a growing trend in governance of all uncontrolled public spending. The latest examples of this are the proposals of individual representatives on encrypting the public funds of Posta and the Hungarian National Bank or the national community of home creation, which are actually only proposed for new gifts for your oligarchs, Fidesz-neighbors and friends, but we could also mention nationalization of tourism. Encrypting and stealing public funds are two stages of the same process. First they make public money disappear from the eyes of the people, make public money impossible, eliminate all kinds of professional and political controls over it, and then, when that happens, it's much easier to hand out to the favorites in secret, because otherwise they're afraid of taxpayers' anger. This is what the re-alignment of the budget is intended to do. Now they're taking the right to control out of Parliament's hands. That's absurd, by the way. Fidesz doesn't trust its own majority. At the same time, the introduction of the government of the Financial Regulation is new in the fact that not only does an individual Member patch up economic policy by entrusting economic policy to various interest groups, but rather a minister who is not responsible for this, because in principle there is a responsible minister in the field of economic policy, but the bill is not registered by him. On this basis, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State why we need regulation governance. Tell me one case where, due to the lack of this mandate, they were unable to resolve a task urgently, to provide for a need for resources when the reserve or other resources referred to in the mandate of the government were not sufficient and were not able to call Parliament together as a matter of urgency. Is there a Ministry of Finance in Budapest today? Is there a responsible economic policy? And if so, which minister or head of the institution is in charge? Is the Hungarian National Bank, the Prime Minister's Office, the Ministry of National Development, or the Minister of Propaganda responsible for budgetary matters today? Because the Ministry of National Economy apparently doesn't. Finally, I would like to know whether you personally support the transformation that will further erod the transparency of public money and lead to the collapse of responsible economic governance. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2016-03-29-70	To answer the question, the Secretary of State of Tállai has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-03-29-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If you had come to the general debate of the bill, which also took place here in Parliament, where we discussed these questions in quite detail, you would have had all your questions answered, and you should not have had to spend your group's interpellation time. Therefore, if I may, I quote from the debate that was held during the general debate on the bill. First of all, as far as the regulation budget is concerned, it is a complete mistake. On the one hand, it is not a regulation on these funds, it is a government decision. And believe it or not, these funds have been decided by the government in the form of government decisions. Only now is the difference between the two allocations that, while in one case it was necessary to wait for 31 December, and then it was revealed what kind of remnants were created in the budget or what revenue surplus, and it was decided by the Government in April, May, or August, before the closure of the accounts in the form of government decisions, as it decides now, that the government has now recognised the possibility of speeding up the use of resources for public service purposes, and that the government can decide, in the course of the year, for example, that it will be certain that it will be available to the budget, so that public procurement can be launched, for example, for road renovations, road constructions or other investments. And if the government doesn't say that, then there is no such possibility, and if so, we can't start the development. And it is impossible that transparency will be undermined, since this government decision itself is public, where it is said that we intend to use such a resource for this purpose. By making this government decision, this will be included in the report, the annual accounts. There will be a bill for closing accounts, which will also come before the Parliament. So you're not undermining your representatives, your parliamentary rights, you're all insured. One thing happens is that the use of resources will be faster, and it will be in the interests of the people. But it doesn't seem to be working for you. As far as budgetary responsibility is concerned, I do not understand why the opposition does not recognise the activities of the government, the Ministry of National Economy, the Minister of National Economy, which are recognised by the whole world, Europe, the European Union in terms of budgetary management. After all, everyone recognises that Hungary has been removed from the excessive deficit procedure; the only way to do this is to manage the resources responsibly, manage the revenue and expenditure responsibly and keep the budget deficit level year by year. I think that if a government doesn't have to worry about its irresponsible management of public funds, it is the current government. Every year, as promised by the current government, the budget deficit is respected and the resources used are presented to the budget in a transparent manner. In recognition of this, I can tell you that the Minister of National Economy probably could not have been the Minister of Finance of the Year in the last year, if he had not pursued this approach, not this responsible management in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-29-72	I give you the floor in return to Congresswoman.
u2016-03-29-73	Mr. Secretary, your answer is toy with words, as well as that if I had been here, I would have known. I'll inform you that I'm officially on a foreign trip. The fact is that this law undermines the rights of Parliament, because the Parliament may have made a decision earlier, and now it will be transferred to the government. We see the transparency of public money in a democracy as a fundamental issue, and we have recently found that you are constantly doing something about it. This has been shown by the Postal Act, the MNB foundations, the encryption of public funds, and this will, in practice, reduce transparency. You said we could find out later, but not before. Thank you.
u2016-03-29-74	Congresswoman did not accept the answer, I understand. I ask this House whether it accepts the Secretary of State's reply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 112 votes to 31, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, János Bencsik, a representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:. What measures did the Government take in addition to the establishment of the legislative background, what educational and approach-forming programmes did the Government implement to protect animals and strengthen responsible livestock farming? It's an address. Congressman's got the floor.
u2016-03-29-75	Dear Secretary of State, With regard to the unfortunate cases of animal abuse which have recently been made public, the issue of animal protection has been brought before this House on several occasions. We have heard about the animal protection activities of the government, the Ministry of Agriculture and its background institutions. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] We have learned about the legislative steps in the field of animal protection, the official measures taken and the system of animal welfare aid that can be claimed. [[15.00]] These are all very important areas with joyful results. However, we need to see the problem more clearly, the legislative changes that have been implemented and planned, so that we can also help our representatives with our work on protecting animals. Creating the right legislative framework serves a twofold purpose. On the one hand, it sets mandatory standards for all and, on the other, provides for sanctions for non-compliance. In the context of animal abuse, we have seen that the penalties alone are not sufficiently dissuasive. It is equally important that a healthy change in society's approach is the basis for the practice of law enforcement: you are once and for all responsible for what you have tamed, we read in The Little Prince. So animal welfare begins in order to know what's right for the animal. It is primarily the responsibility of the farmer to ensure the well-being of the animal and therefore, above all, he should be aware that the animals are living beings capable of feeling, suffering and being happy, their respect and well-being are the moral responsibility of all humans. All this duty comes from the order of creation. Responsible livestock farming, respect for the dignity of animal life are fundamental values that must determine the relationship between man and animal. The dissemination of standards and the dissemination of civilized animal protection as widely as possible is an important government public task. Taking all this into account, it is necessary to apply a programme based on each other that combines concrete measures based on a clear legislative background and the related approach-forming programmes. Dear Secretary of State, That is why I am asking you, in addition to setting up the legislative framework, what educational and thinking programmes have been implemented by the government in order to protect animals and to promote responsible livestock farming. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-29-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. Parliamentary Secretary Róbert Zsigó answers the interpellation question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-29-77	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Congressman, As you point out, in addition to the creation of legislation on animal protection, the government has a role to play in the launch and implementation of initiatives to promote the love and respect of animals and to promote responsible livestock farming. This is why the Ministry of Agriculture and the National Food Chain Safety Office have launched a number of programmes aimed at going beyond the presentation of legislation on animal protection. Recent amendments to legislation concerning co-animals, such as the introduction of mandatory individual marking and registration of dogs over 4 months of age or the prohibition of a permanent ban on dogs, can only be fulfilled if people are made aware that they are in the interest of their pets rather than for their own sake. This consideration created the Ministry of Agriculture and Nébih's programme of responsible livestock farming. The aim of the approach-forming initiative is to draw attention to the situation of orphan animals and the importance of neutering them, thereby contributing to the creation of a responsible animal culture and to the finding of dogs placed in as many shelters and puppies as possible. This program is also part of the Látós Partner Project launched in 2015, which presents the process of training guide dogs in a way that follows the life of a puppy from birth to the end of training, and the National Food Chain Safety Office adopted a puppy in the framework of the project and supports its training as a guide dog. Dear Parliament, Today, we estimate that only 5-10 percent of the dogs in Hungary have neutered. Recognizing this, we launched a program for the neuteredness of thousands of unclaimed dogs. Under the agreement of FM, Nébih and the Faculty of Veterinary Science of St. Stephen's University, the university performed the neutering of thousands of orphan dogs living in approved animal shelters with the participation of veterinary students. The main aim of the initiative was to improve the chances of adoption of orphan animals, in addition to preventing unwanted dog growth. The programme was successfully completed last year, and we are working to continue with this, taking into account the positive experience. Awareness of animal responsibility and information on animal welfare standards are essential not only for co-owners but also for farmers holding farm animals. This is the purpose of the regulation under which animal welfare officials should be employed in large numbers of livestock farms in Hungary from 2013 onwards, in order to prevent EU legislation. It is their responsibility to monitor and facilitate compliance with animal welfare legislation laying down animal housing conditions and to provide those responsible for the care and supervision of animals with instructions and guidance on their well-being. Dear Parliament, We have also created a new regulation on dangerous animal species and the rules for their individual keeping. As a result, animals that are dangerous to humans are subject to stricter, but more enforceable, rules. Recent reports of animal abuse and animal cruelty confirm that, in addition to discussions on the possibility of amending the Code of Penalty, the principles of responsible livestock farming should be explained to as many people as possible. In this we look forward to everyone's help, as the government is committed to strengthening animal protection and responsible livestock farming. Please accept my reply. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-29-78	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Mr János Bencsik if he will accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2016-03-29-79	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Social organisations, associations, civil society movements involved in animal protection and animal shelters perform exemplary work and service in the field of social responsibility. It is therefore appropriate to thank all those who do this kind of community and social work here in the House of the country. And it is appropriate for the Ministry of Agriculture to continue to support these civil society organisations and associations operating shelters. We hope that the strengthening of this responsible animal farming practice will result in fewer strays. If I may, I would also like to mention here that there will also be a better and respected place for farm animals in agricultural and livestock farms. I respectfully accept your reply. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-29-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office:. One-year anniversary - or how long will they lie about the M4 case, and who is responsible for the more than one hundred billion-dollar act? It's an address. On behalf of Mr Miklós Seszták, Minister for National Development, who is competent and competent on behalf of the Prime Minister, the Minister of State László Tasó responds to the interpellation. Here you go, Congresswoman. You have the floor.
u2016-03-29-81	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Two criminal proceedings were initiated by the public procurement authority concerning the implementation of certain stages of the M4 motorway, which was shut down last year, as a particularly high value investment. The procedure is expected to end in the first half of the year, the Authority informed. However, there were no reports of exactly what suspicions led to the initiation of proceedings. The M4 motorway was not a victim of the reasons communicated by the government, but that the two former fellow students, comrades and good friends, Viktor Orbán and Lajos Simicska, fought and the war broke out between them. The result was the most disadvantaged of the people in East Hungary. Exactly a year ago, they suspended the construction and stopped the construction. In addition, the biggest damage was caused to the supposedly supported Hungarian small businesses. Many of them have been destroyed because they have signed up for this investment to develop their machinery park from loans. Dear Secretary of State, Don't forget that stopping the construction of the M4 motorway does not only adversely affect the county of Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok, but also the county of Hajdú-Bihar. [[15.10]] The M4 could have also freed the Bishop's Lady area from the enormous freight traffic to and from Romania. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and Minister Lázár constantly misled public opinion, because the government knew already in spring 2014 that the EU did not support the M4 investment, yet they kept saying that the inquiry was still under way in Brussels, but that everything would be fine. They also withheld from the tax-paying citizens that in autumn 2014 the Hungarian government withdrew its support request for M4. This could be increased: the Orbán government pushed the original investment cost of HUF 110 billion by an additional HUF 60 billion, and in the spring of 2015 the government first suspended the construction on the grounds that the European Commission suspected that the contractors had been involved in a cartel, and then, after Brussels had repeatedly strongly denied it, a contract was terminated with reference to a lack of funds. On 18 March, Minister Lázár said in Gyula that the Eastern counties must be satisfied that they have not been given sufficient attention in the last hundred years. Since 2010, the Orbán government, unlike its predecessors, has been looking not only west but also east. Well, we wouldn't ask for any more of this viewing to the east. When do you look, Secretary of State, do you actually see the Orbán government east? And when will the fate of the people of the eastern counties be important? Who is responsible for the situation? And how long do you intend to lie about the M4 case? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2016-03-29-82	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State László Tasó. Here you go.
u2016-03-29-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and With regard to your question on the M4 it is important to explain how the current situation has evolved from the beginning. In 2006 the Hungarian Road met the project in connection with the Monori and Pilis bypass section. In 2008, the whole section from Abony to Weapons was redesigned, and in 2009 it was still only designed twice as a two-track high road. In September 2009, the State Secretary of the then MSZP government ordered the development of the motorway, and the construction of the Abony-Fégyver phase began in 2013. By the way, in 2013, the EU Committees indicated and the staff heard during the negotiations that they would not support the investment because it had a high cost. Accounts for the work started in 2013 were sent to the managing authority around 2014 and were re-examined and asked. Clearing questions were asked to the Commission's authorities in 2014 and were not answered in substance from February to autumn 2014. On 1 November 2014, and more specifically on 1 August 2014, [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: In the spring of 2014 Ildikó...]] when the government withdrew, and that's when what you said happened, so you didn't re-submit it, because you knew exactly that the European Union didn't support the section in question with EU funds. But unlike what you say, let's go back to the facts. Since 2010 East Hungary - I reached the east of the Danube, North Hungary, Central Hungary, South and East Hungary specifically - at 360 kilometers, road investments were made only for HUF 338 billion. If you start counting exactly what jobs there are in the next few years, let me list a few things. In particular, regarding the construction of the M4 as a two-track drive, the government decided in June of the previous year when the Prime Minister visited Szolnok and signed an agreement with the Mayor. So by 2018, the city of Szolnok will be connected to the fast-track network, and what you said, let us say so, and regarding the halted phase - you know well, because you have received a reply from the Prime Minister on many occasions, too, and from the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office - investigations are under way. The Hungarian Competition Authority has investigations, and yes, there are also two inquiries by the arbitration committee, which we do not have more accurate information on. Therefore, I say here that other information about the M4 is not available to me, so all previous responses are correct. On the other hand, let's just say a few words about what investments will be made in East Hungary in the coming years! For example, at the M4 you may not know, but I would like to inform you: from Debrecen M35 in Hajdú-Bihar county, you will reach the area of the new village of Berettyó, the node of the M4, and this work will start in the summer. The continuation of the M4 to the border, I hope, will begin at the end of autumn 2016. The entire section will be completed by the end of 2018 and the city of Bishop's Lady will be freed. But let's not forget to say a few words about our daughter. This year, the 7 km section passing through the inner area of Ladány will be completely renovated, and in addition, an intermodal node will be built in Nyíregyháza, Miskolc, Debrecen. We're building the M30, we're building the 471, the 48, the M44, the M2 until Vác and the Eger connection. So if you think that we are not paying attention to Eastern Hungary, then you are wrong, because everyone in Hungary knows that only Fidesz and his allies have dealt with East Hungary in recent years, and they also know that only allies of Fidesz and KDNP in Hungary are allies of Fidesz and KDNP [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] they can deal with rural Hungary. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side. An uproar in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2016-03-29-84	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély if she will accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2016-03-29-85	I don't accept it, Mr. President. It was hard, Mr. Secretary, to talk these four minutes out. Let me quote you from an article last week: If Viktor Orbán takes part in the inauguration of the Stadium in Szolnok and shakes hands with Zsolt Nyerges, then this could be a message to the former comrade, Lajos Simicska, to settle the relationship between the Prime Minister. He says that this is how good governance happens, that a year ago we're fighting, and then maybe we'll get back together, and then everything's gonna be okay, and another hundred billion can be thrown at an entrepreneur. And in the meantime, he's rotting in the ground for 60 billion forints? ! Are you serious, Mr. Secretary? ! I respectfully invite the Secretary of State to a demonstration on April 1st. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Because we can't accept it, not the Szolnok County, not the Hajdú-Bihar County, what they're doing to this country. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Stylish! It's stylish.]] I don't accept it, Mr. President.
u2016-03-29-86	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 112 votes in favour, 35 against and without abstentions. [[Németh Szilárd István: Has OPNI been closed? , Intermissions. Dr. Zsolt Legány: Don't hurt the wrestlers...]] Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Member János Volner, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office:, Jobbik successfully represses crime and normalises public status at Gypsy settlements. [[It's ringing.]] On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of Interior, who is responsible for the subject, responds to the interpellation on behalf of Mr Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-29-87	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Jobbik has launched a national program in better management settlements. The name of this programme is "Order and decency" and the programme consists of three pillars: the first is accountability where the previous settlement was involved in corruption-suspected transactions; the second pillar is the pillar of order-building; the third pillar is the operation of an anti-corruption centre at the better local authorities in order to prevent similar cases from occurring. This program began in Tisavasvár; it also began in the Gypsy colony of Tisavasvári, which the local police and social workers said was the most difficult area in the settlement. We were very surprised when we first visited this part of the settlement: trash mountains, stray dogs, rats running through the trash mountains, this is what we received in this part of the settlement. All the windows are practically broken in the settlement, which is inhabited by the basically Gypsy segregation, by the inhabitants themselves. The street lights are broken without exception everywhere, so that, according to others, the local residents themselves have destroyed these lamps, there is no way to see where the stolen goods are being taken. There have been recent incidents when a rat attacked and chewed a child inside the house who was sleeping. It's possible that this might indicate the conditions we found there. We've been able to stop 27 electrical thefts, we've called the police, they've arrived, they've seized the power. Luckily, our team wasn't attacked at the gypsy colony, but I also have to tell you that the police were attacked by the gypsies, two of whom were also produced from there because of violence against an official. [[15.20]] We ourselves have received a lot of threats, but I would also like to tell the liberal journalists and the Gypsy people in the colony who are threatening us that we are not going to go there until we have been able to clean up and enforce the laws fully with everyone. Crimes have been reduced, and public conditions have normalized as a result of our action in this part of the settlement, even as the Gypsy people who live there say. That is why you have us, Secretary of State, as an unpleasant surprise that the government office you run is trying to make the work there impossible. The government office is trying to forbid the municipality of Tiszavasvári from ordering. I'm asking why, Mr. Secretary. In Tisavasvári, 187 children had to be protected by the state in one year because they were not properly raised by their parents. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Why do you feel the pain of ordering things? Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-29-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-29-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The Hungarian municipal system is based on the fact that the municipalities and the representative bodies, under the mayor's leadership, are involved in the public presence of the local community and the public in order to create the most suitable conditions for the inhabitants of the settlement, so that the settlements can develop and take all the steps together, I say once again, the leaders of the settlement with the population of the settlement, which serves to ensure that the inhabitants of the settlement can truly feel the community in which they live as their home and place of residence. Obviously, this may differ from the local economy in different parts of the country, from the inherited, inherited economic situation, depending on the social situation. However, it is quite certain that it is mandatory and necessary for all municipalities to comply with the laws, the Fundamental Law and the laws relating to the operation of the local government. It is also clear that the municipalities are striving to ensure that children living in the settlement receive the necessary social care and food. The civil government has done a great deal to give every child access to warm food at least once a day, so that children can get food during schooling, but also beyond schooling, during the break. We have also done a great deal to improve public security, together with the local authorities; both the police and the civil guards supported by the Ministry of the Interior in the municipalities are working together, and on the basis of the figures, I can say that they have succeeded in reducing the number of crimes. What Mr President has said is that in a settlement living in extreme poverty, there are a lot of acts that are outdated or irritated by the majority, which the municipalities are trying to eliminate in many settlements together with those living there, and from this they are not organizing a PR campaign, they are not organising a media campaign, they are not putting on this everyday life, but they are saying that together they are trying to do everything to make sure that the people living in the settlement can live together in peace, so that the people living in the settlement can help each other and take all the steps that sustain the inner peace of the settlement, not only in the sense of public security, but also in terms of the coexistence of people. However, what you have said would be strange if I were to counter-argument - but it can come from the thought you have said - that if this is the better model, then why did it happen in Turkszentmiklós, because in a better-maned settlement, women who raised children were in untenable conditions. Of course, we have a shared responsibility, and this can only be followed by legal instruments. For this reason, the Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County Government Office carried out legal checks and called on the local government of Tiszavasvári to conclude only an agreement with the local minority self-government and the Roma minority, which is directly related to the Roma minority. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-29-90	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Mr János Volner if he will accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2016-03-29-91	Thank you very much. Mr Secretary, what I see is that at present the head of the government office, the district office, Mr. József József József József József József József József, is a person who has recently started as a candidate for mayor in Tisavasvári, who has been supported by you, and is now probably trying, for political reasons, to disable the process of ordering in this city by the former mayor with a fidesz backwind close to you. Mr Secretary, I would also like to state that Jobbik is determined to put order in this part of the settlement. We are determined that at least these weak Hungarian laws, if we enforce them, we are already taking a huge step forward. I ask you, Minister of State, to support you, not in all ways, trying to interfere in the life of the local government in Tisavasvár, by means of governments, to make order impossible. We're in this together. We need your support. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-29-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. My fellow Members, as we have heard, Mr János Volner did not accept the State Secretary's reply. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 111 votes in favour, 27 votes against, 1 vote in favour. The representatives of Bernadett Wind and Erzsébet Schmuck, representatives of LMP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. When will a real wage increase be given instead of cashing cafeteria? It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, the notary of the Parliament, has the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-03-29-93	Dear Secretary of State, It is already a part of the government's routine that issues that affect the world of work in a meaty way are not dealt with. The latest announcement by Viktor Orbán at the opening of the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry at the opening of the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry missed the preliminary consultation that the government would cash the cafeteria from 1 January 2017. According to the Prime Minister, now that the European Commission has crushed the Hungarian cafeteria system, it is time to open up the double remuneration system that has been hidden so far and make some of the wage free. According to him, the traditional means of raising wages are no longer sufficient to pay a wage that brings home the young. However, this solution could result in a large increase in wages. However, Viktor Orbán's claim that giving the cafeteria to employees in cash would give people more money is simply not true. Nor is it true that this is the only method today that allows for higher wage increases than the performance of the economy. Although it is not yet known how this change would affect the whole system of tax-free and preferential non-wage benefits, which would cease to be cafeteria elements, it can already be said that cashing the cafeteria would only result in an apparent increase in wages by means of an unpaid wage increase. If the government's goal was indeed to raise wages, to bring young people home, then there would be a method that could substantially increase net wages without additional burdens. The recipe for this is very simple: the burden on work must be reduced primarily among the under-average earners. For this, the LMP has already submitted its proposal on a fair multi-key tax system on several occasions, an important element of which is the exemption of the minimum wage. The net value of the minimum wage would be 23 thousand forints, and the average wage earner would increase by 37 thousand forints. There is, therefore, the possibility of a real wage increase, only the government insists on a tax system that increases social inequalities and keeps wages low. I'm asking the Secretary of State: they're bleeding out the cafeteria system for good, and why don't they just give us a real raise? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2016-03-29-94	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, will answer the question. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[15.30]]
u2016-03-29-95	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Allow me first to talk about a real changing wage system, a tax system, because before 2010, there was a tax system that specifically penalised higher wage-paying companies and encouraged wage increases to be contained and incomes withheld, and, moreover, encouraged people to live on aid instead. The double wage system, according to which there is no tax on the minimum wage, clearly encouraged businesses to keep people at minimum wage and pay their other income in a different way. Fidesz-KDNP has created a completely new system with a single-key tax system that has unified the personal income tax system, the public burden of the personal income tax system. I think that your proposal differs substantially from this: it is unfair, on the one hand, and on the other hand it does not take into account the conditions of balance of the budget, the possibility of equilibrium, and if your proposal were to be accepted seriously by the Parliament, it would mean that we would fall back under the excessive deficit procedure of the European Union. I therefore believe that the system introduced by the current government, which is not only about single-key personal income tax, but also about the priority of supporting families raising children, is certainly a major change and substantial change in the Hungarian wage system. Between 2009 and 2015, the number of employees increased by 500,000 and real wages increased by 15.4 percent. Your question, however, is about cafeteria. Indeed, this is an incredibly large, high-profile issue, since 30-35 thousand employers give such benefits every month, it could affect 2.3 million employees; this amount was HUF 300 billion in 2015 and the employer's burden exceeded HUF 400 billion. In addition, employers gave HUF 120-130 billion in other forms or above the legal framework, thus exceeding and bearing its burdens or other tax-free benefits: tickets to sports events, tickets to cultural services and leases. In 2015, the Erzsébet voucher received HUF 154.4 billion and the SZÉP card was charged HUF 90.5 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Indeed, the European Court of Justice has decided to change the cafeteria system, which the government is thinking about. The decision will be made, of course, first discussed by the government, then the legislative proposal will be submitted to the Parliament, and the Parliament will decide on it. The purpose and content of the change cannot be anything but that workers can benefit at least the same, perhaps not as benefits in kind, but also as wages in the future, which they received in the form of Elizabeth's voucher. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] The clear aim is to increase employment and further increase real earnings for workers - this is how the cafeteria system will be changed. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-29-96	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Mrs. Erzsébet Schmuck if she will accept the State Secretary's answer. Here you go.
u2016-03-29-97	I don't accept the answer. I would like to remind the Secretary of State that the transfer from one pocket to another at the cafeteria is not a wage increase, and I would also like to remind the Secretary of State of some data. Low-income earners lost a lot of money with a single-key tax, to be more precise: 134 billion have increased their burden by eliminating the tax credit when you introduced the single-key tax in 2010, while remaining over 500 billion in the top tenth. Two and a half million people were wrong about the new tax system, and only those with high incomes could feel tax cuts. In Hungary, 66.5 percent of gross wage is paid to an average minimum wage, 82 percent in Poland, 85 percent in Slovakia and 89 percent in the Czech Republic. So this also shows that the tax burden is very high. In addition, I would like to draw attention to [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] that the Hungarian net minimum wage is a driving force in the Visegrád countries. This problem cannot be solved by redecorating the cafeteria.
u2016-03-29-98	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The congresswoman did not accept the State Secretary's reply, so I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 110 votes in favour, 32 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Congressman Lajos Korózs, a representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: It's an address. Congressman Lajos Korózs has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-29-99	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In February of this year, the medical service report shows that the hygiene conditions in the country's hospitals, the equipment, and the lack of a doctor have grown to such an extent that it is almost better for the patient not to go to the hospital and use health care services, since those who are hospitalized are more likely to be infected because of lack of hygiene than those who are in their daily living areas. There were also some people who thought it was a trumped-up lie, but it was invented by journalists, but it turned out that this internal report existed a few days later. And then it turned out that this was part of the government's health reform, although the Secretary of State for Health at the time said that there was no mention of it, because this is an outdated research; I would like to stress that it came to light in February. It is known that there are so-called minimum conditions that must be met in every hospital. In 2012, I would like to remind you, Mr Secretary of State, these conditions were already adopted and amended by this government, so that, among other things, the possibility of temporary authorisation appeared in this amendment. Before that, if an institution did not meet the minimum conditions, that institution had to be closed. He did not receive an extension for 30, 60 or 90 days, but if he did not fulfil the conditions, his operating licence was revoked. Now the minimum conditions do not mean a good care class, but that nothing worse could be done. So if you meet the legal requirements of a health institution, it doesn't mean it's good to be sick there, just that there's minimal safety for the patient. The minimum conditions should include - or should be more precise - the evidences and, in general, some of the little things that are mostly added by the representatives of the professional region. Well, I guess that's not the case today. I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether it is acceptable to you if a hospital meets minimum conditions on paper in Hungary, yet hundreds of patients are infected. Is that even acceptable? The doctors have also failed to keep them at home, and I see that the wage increase has failed, because in many cases the wage increase has been solved against the operating conditions, so now it looks like there is no operating condition or the doctors have not stayed home, and dozens of us see that the institutions do not comply, but they do work. Is that acceptable to you? Finally, I would like to ask the Secretary of State when the infection data that hospitals sent to the central institutional website in 2015 should be published. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-29-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-29-101	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In recent weeks, not only on the part of the government, but also from the Chief Officer, the National Centre for Epidemiology, a number of communications and information has come to light on this issue, which have refuted the rumors that the Member said, and there is no secrecy of any kind, since the data that Hungary has to publish can be found on the websites of international organisations. So they are not only available in Hungary but also abroad, because we are part of an international system, precisely to prevent these infections. At the same time, increasing and strengthening the number of infections associated with healthcare is not a Hungarian feature, but a major problem at European and global level. The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control estimates that on average one patient in 20 patients receiving hospitalisation, i.e. every 20 patients, will develop such infections. [[15.40]] On the basis of the international organisation, it represents around 4 million patients at EU level, of which 37,000 are deaths at EU level. More than half of Europe's countries do not have a supervision system similar to that of Hungary. Nasocomial bloodstream infections, infections caused by multi-resistant pathogens and other hospital infections should only be reported in some European countries, so the Hungarian system is one of the more advanced ones, since other countries of the European Union do not report such infections to the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control. We have the data in public, and we don't have the data there. The healthcare system often treats patients whose immune system is already weakened, and these patients often suffer from several different chronic diseases, since it is common to artificially weaken the patient's immune system, for example in organ transplants to reduce the risk of rejection and in other cases. It is also important that serious bloodstream infection, i.e. sepsis syndrome, is primarily based on a systemic response in the patient's body caused by an effect on the internal balance of the body at local level, accompanied by a bacterial infection that may result in severe sepsis, septic shock, and even death in adverse cases. However, many other internal factors, such as age, other diseases, the state of the immune system, the state of nutrition and working conditions, and many others, are also involved in the development of sepsis, one of which is the so - called hospital factor. It should also be borne in mind that hospital infections are mostly caused by superbacteria, which are not affected by antibiotics, or only by so - called back-up antibiotics. From all this, Mr President, you can see that, in addition to complying with the minimum statutory conditions of a hospital, many other factors have an impact on the development of diseases. However, a number of measures have already been taken to prevent and treat serious bloodstream infections in Hungary. Graduation and postgraduate specialist training has been strengthened in this area and a new recommendation has been made on the treatment of severe sepsis and septic shock. The Hungarian Urgent Medicine Society has developed a course with the Hungarian trademark to identify serious blood flow infections at an early stage, highlight vulnerable patients and treat them effectively in the meantime, and create a so-called sepsis register, which includes the number of nasocomial infections from the area and the level of severity of admission. This will make a significant contribution to effective action against healthcare-related infections. I would just like to say that the Hungarian budget did commit HUF 75 billion to increase the salary of 95 thousand health workers, by 5.8 billion last year and by HUF 12 billion this year, if we project it for the entire year last year. 3400 young doctors are granted a scholarship in the Resident Support Program [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and thus reduced the degree of medical migration, and in the minimum condition we want to maintain this kind of patient-centredness, which we have also done in the case of infections. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-29-102	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman Lajos Korózs if he will accept the State Secretary's answer. Here you go.
u2016-03-29-103	With all due respect, Mr President, I do not accept the answer, so we now know a lot about superbacteria, we have received such information from a lot of places, but, you know, Mr. Secretary, the biggest problem here is that hundreds of billions of people have been removed from health care every year, and that is the primary problem. About the money that's been withdrawn so far should be refunded, which is roughly even with the cost of funding stadium construction. I would just like to remind Mr Secretary of State that, as far as I know, no one has ever recovered from a stadium, that is one of the things. The other, Mr. Secretary of State, did not respond to the fact that, with the minimum conditions, [[Moore in the pro-government benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] what the Secretary of State and the Ministry have to do here, because a significant part of the institutions do not meet the minimum conditions. What will be the fate of these institutions? And I'd like to remind you that just last week, I interpelled you on the Eger hospital case, and for months there was no disinfection at the Eger hospital. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and have not addressed the problems that have already existed. I don't accept your answer. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-29-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the House whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 112 votes in favour, 33 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Congressman István Apáti, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior. It's an address. Congressman István Apáti has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-29-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In order to avoid misunderstandings and distortions, I would like to advance, Jobbik supported the fence construction, if it were to be decided now, we would support it now, and what is more, the idea came first from the right-wing mayor of Ásotthalom, and it is right that a party supports its own programme, its own idea, if the time for voting or decision-making comes. But we didn't, and we didn't say that we would give our votes in favour of cheating treatment and corruption cases. From August 2015 to October 2015, two written questions and a request for data of general interest were required in order to enable BM to establish its own competence at all, so that they could find out who should be answered for the questions concerning the costs, detailed budget and use of the fence. We had a hard time getting the answer, and the accounting itself was about HUF 10 billion, at the time Mihály Varga talked about costs of $40 billion, but at the same time we had to raise this budget by $60 billion, so chaos became amazing and complete. The accounts revealed two things: one half of the items was difficult to identify, difficult to understand, objectively comparable. One example is just one of the many: for example, for fences, which have been completed at a length of 170 kilometres, sometimes in tonnes, sometimes in river meters, or in rolls, the quantities have been given to try to prevent or at least to make things difficult for an opposition representative in the briefing. What was shown, I wish it hadn't been seen, or if it hadn't been so, I'd put it this way, since the visible and comparable items show five to eight times overpriced. Let me give you some examples without the need for completeness. The NATO blade wire can be purchased at a gross current price of between 600 and 700 forints, and up to 2800 forints have been paid for it. For example, a small item was the issue of visual vests, which, say, any mortal on earth could buy for 300 HUF in any store, was paid 2400 HUF. Then they ordered a service car from the best bar at 5.5 million, this is really remarkable, I think! The two Mad Max gates were able to buy for 10 million forints, and even 350 for a simple lock they were able to pay 1 million 255 thousand forints of Hungarian taxpayers' money. Now, Mr. Secretary of State, I would ask you: do you really think this is in order, in your opinion, for a sacred cause, for the survival of the nation and for the salvation of the nation, it is vital that the issue of the physical border lock is not something where we should curb their otherwise very difficult appetite? Shouldn't we have paid more attention here to proper cost accounting and only to what is absolutely justified? And then I didn't even talk about the unforeseen costs of 500 million forints, which you can't even see exactly what they spent on. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State whether you think that this is perfectly all right, or whether a thorough examination should be carried out by the person who has committed these crimes. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I look forward to your meaningful reply, free of misconception. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-29-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be heard from Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-29-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Interior must draw up the detailed accounts by 31 March 2016. We'll meet that deadline. So today is March 29th, and the accounts will be ready by March 31st, and I'm offering you... [[The First of Novak: In the meantime, you can steal! The president's ringing the bell.]] Okay, calm down, Congressman. The truth is very difficult to bear, I can see that. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] I know it's not easy, but please listen to me. So I will continue to answer your question in the interpellation. So I offer you here, in front of the public of this House, if you wish to do so, please report to the Ministry of the Interior, check all items, look at all items, and find out about their reality. I ask the honourable Member to finish his accusations, accusations here in front of this House and elsewhere. Every edition, every penny, will be accounted for by the Ministry of Interior, and do not try to overshadow these accusations, accusations, the success that we achieved as a result of the combined effect of the temporary security border closure and legal protection and living protection, in Hungarian, that we were able to protect the country, protect Hungary, protect Hungarian people. [[15.50]] As regards the specific examples of your question, your interpellation: the visual vest was acquired by the prison execution at a unit price of nearly HUF 300, but it had to be individually fitted with the reflective identifiers, so the total cost is calculated by the sum of the vest and the individual conversion. The padlocks used at the border are also uniquely manufactured, based on a special technical description, based on specific needs. Not only can it not be compared to products manufactured in series production, but its safety is also different. The creation of a technical border closure, I believe, was achieved in such circumstances, so quickly, in the interests of the country, by cooperation, through the enforcement of sentences, by the bodies of the Ministry of Interior, by the Hungarian Defence Forces, which show that this country, if necessary, can act, act effectively, protect its citizens, protect its borders. I think that you too can see that Hungary's efforts throughout the European Union are being surrounded by increasing recognition and increasing sympathy. I ask the honourable Member that, in view of these considerations, if it is important for you to appreciate the Hungarian nation, Hungary's judgement, the Hungarian national unity on fundamental issues that you have mentioned, please consider before making such accusations and accusations. Once again, to answer your question specifically, you can see all the documents, all the supporting documents. Please indicate, and the Ministry of the Interior is at your disposal, and I would also ask that if you have done this visit, this insight, please give an account before this House and apologize for the false wording that you have made here in this House. And by the way, if you're a fair man, please accept my answer. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-29-108	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman István Apáti if he will accept the State Secretary's answer. Here you go.
u2016-03-29-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I accept the invitation, not the answer. Well, it looks like the lock and the wire were to blame for everything, too expensive, and you don't seem to be responsible. Secretary of State, do you know from what account, from which statement, the data I just gave you? From the account signed by Officer László Tasnádi himself. Oops! So obviously I didn't wake up one morning seeing these figures on my living room wall, but these are the results of thorough research, Mr. Secretary of State. The fact is that they can't explain that what can be bought in small quantities at some lengths is 700 forints, and that it costs 2800 forints in 170 kilometers. There is no explanation for this; there is a minimum of unfaithful treatment, but there is also suspicion of other crimes. The thing is, Secretary of State, I do not say that you, but there are more and more of you who have a self-exciting process, an appetite that grows, but the more they eat, the more the stomach expands. [[István Szilárd Németh: No, no, no!]] And the end of that will be that the stomach bursts, and then your fall will occur. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-29-110	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, As we have heard, Congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. Therefore, I ask the House whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 111 votes in favour, 37 votes against, 1 vote in favour. Dear Parliament, Congressman Nándor Gúr, a representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy: å Why do Hungarian workers bring home the least money in comparison with the Visegrád countries? It's an address. Mr Nándor Gúr, the notary of the Parliament, has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-03-29-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. They've been ruling for six years, and you know it. They've been in government for six years, say you can say that the minimum wage has increased, especially the gross. What about his net? What about his purchasing power? They know that, but they don't say that. With his gross, you know, he grew by more than 50 percent in six years. With its net now, now, on the big increase: overall, there was 23 percent inflation and 18 percent inflation in general, but if you look at it in terms of food prices, which is a good projection basis for those who are, say, low-income, because they spend the most on food, then the situation is even worse. There, the net increase in the minimum wage and the inflation of food are roughly the same. I must say, therefore, that while posters were being advertised on one side, on the other, nothing on the net of the minimum wage was done. The purchasing power value of this money has not increased or even decreased for five years. There's a high living burden on the minimum wage, and everyone knows it, they know it, but they don't want to cut it. If you look at the Visegrád Four, you can still see that. In Hungary, 66.5 percent of the minimum wage gross is allocated to people. The situation is different in Poland, Slovakia and the Czech Republic. In Slovakia, people receive 82 percent, in Poland 85 percent, and in the Czech Republic 89 percent. Or if we reshape the minimum wage that we received there, forint on what those funds are worth, then the situation is that in the Czech Republic it exceeds HUF 100,000, in Slovakia it is also HUF 107 thousand, and in Poland it has a net equivalent to the minimum wage of HUF 110,000; while in Hungary it does not reach HUF 74 thousand. Overall, this situation in the region - not only for the Visegrád Four, but also for the region - is critical, the situation in Hungary, because this is the kind of money that you cannot earn a decent living from. In fact, my questions are very simple: when, when will they finally raise the net of the minimum wage in a tangible way, so that their purchasing power will increase in a noticeable way? If they say that the economy works - they used to say that - then why do they not act in this regard, why do they not act in this direction? And tell me, in terms of the Visegrád Four, when will the net of the Hungarian minimum wage, say, reach Polish? When will it be worth 110,000 forints? I ask you to answer these simple questions. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-03-29-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer to the question raised will be Mr Péter Cseresnyés State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-29-113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You must have missed him while he asked his questions that the Government of Hungary does not determine the minimum wage. The government has so far abstained and will continue to refrain from setting the minimum wage that can be paid on one side. It will always take far-reaching account of the views of the social partners. Accordingly, since we came to government, the minimum wage has been raised every year as a result of consultation with trade unions and employers, most of the time on the basis of a complete consensus. This is how it can be reported that the minimum wage has increased from HUF 73 500 in 2010 to HUF 111,000 today. As you said, this is a 51 percent increase, the highest of the advanced OECD Member States. Congressman probably quoted his objections to the Hungarian minimum wage from an article recently published, the lack of net value compared to the Visegrád countries. Let us now ignore the otherwise very important circumstance that the international comparison of wages is worth doing, not by applying the exchange rates on the currency market, but by taking into account the purchasing power parities of national currencies, and in this situation we are doing much better than you have outlined. Therefore, the comparison with the Visegrád states is also deceptive if only the general tax conditions are calculated. In Hungary, single-key taxation was introduced together with a significant family tax discount, and I would ask you to pay attention to this: the benefit for dependent children has been extended in several steps, so the net minimum wage of HUF 73 815 in 2016 is understood without a family discount, which, if a child is raised, will increase by HUF 10 thousand per month and by HUF 25 thousand per month for two children. A worker with three or more children receives the gross minimum wage of HUF 111 thousand in almost the total amount without deduction. [[16.00]] So this can be compared, and perhaps the family policies and tax policies of the countries listed are different from those of Hungary. If we look at the changes from 2010, the net minimum wage rose by 22.5 percent in six years without family benefits, but as a result of the family benefit, the net growth of workers with one child was 39 percent, 64 percent for those with two children and 79 percent for those with three children. If we take into account that consumer prices have increased by only 13 per cent during this period, of which 1.6 per cent for 2016, we can see that there has also been a very serious increase in the real value of the minimum wage since 2010. By the way, I suggest that you compare similar data between 2002 and 2010 and calculate them, and in this case I think you can find interesting findings. To sum up, the government, in consultation with the social partners, has so far raised the minimum wage substantially and will continue to do so. Of course, it does this with the help of economic conditions and the development of the economy. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-29-114	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I respectfully ask Mr Nándor Gúr whether he accepts the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2016-03-29-115	Thank you, Mr. President. I see, Mr. Secretary, it doesn't matter to you that politics, trade unions, civil society or whoever's saying what's in real life doesn't matter, it doesn't matter to you. Look, do you remember the budget planning? If you don't, I'm gonna give you the benefit of the doubt. Lazarus then announced what the minimum wage would be when planning the budget during the year. And by the way, you know how much tax burden on the minimum wage is determined by the government. The government should give up its greed for not dumping more tax burdens on people. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: That's right!]] [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: That's right!]] and exploit people, but give these resources to people. For six years, people with minimum wage were robbed, less money was given to them (interjection from the lines of the MSZP: That's right!) They lied to their faces through a multitude of posters. They will do something when the minimum minimum wage is 100,000 forints net. Always let the Visegrád Four's minimum wage float before their eyes, translated into HUF! Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-03-29-116	Ladies and gentlemen, As we have heard, Congressman Nándor Gúr did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I ask the House whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 113 votes in favour, 32 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of interpellation issues. Now I'm ordering a two-minute technical break, and from there we'll continue our work with the instant questioning clock. [[It's a short technical break. Some of the representatives leave the meeting room.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats so that the hour of immediate questioning can be carried out without delay. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Bárándy, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question:, Are you ordering a salary of five million, Mr President? It's an address. Mr President has appointed Vice-President Márton Nagy to respond to the urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2016-03-29-117	Mr President, Thirdly, I can only say that I will wait for Mr President. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-29-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform the House that Mr President has to answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Congressman Bertalan Tóth, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question:. Would you mind stopping? It's an address. Mr President has appointed Vice-President Márton Nagy as a response to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2016-03-29-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I won't accept it, and I'll wait for Mr. President. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-03-29-120	Thank you very much. I would also like to inform Mr President that he will have to answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Congressman Csaba Tóth, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question: It's an address. Mr President has appointed Vice-President Márton Nagy as a response to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the responding party or waits for Mr President to be present by answering his question.
u2016-03-29-121	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, After the next time President Matolcsy will be here in person, as we have heard, I'd like to wait with the answer. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-29-122	Thank you very much. I would like to inform Mr President that he will have to answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Once again, I call Congressman Bertalan Tóth. Congressman, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question:, What is happening in the Post? It's an address. Congressman Bertalan Tóth has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-29-123	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, The news reports of the past few weeks have shown a wide picture of the scandalous cases surrounding the Hungarian Post. For example, we have learned from these cases that the Hungarian Post Office's CEO has a small salary of HUF 5 million a month, so he still receives hundreds of thousands of salaries from his postal and private FHB offices. We have learned that Posta has partially privatized part of its money company and renounced its management rights. The Treasury Savings Plus sovereign debt is concluded not with the state company, but with one whose half is not the owner of the State. There are also common elements of these cases, such as the fact that the same well-identifiable Fidesz circle appears in the background in all cases, the stolen savings cooperative sector and the FHB group linked to the Spéder Zoltán major contractor. And it just doesn't show what's good about this great friendship, privatization, exchange of shares for 75 percent of the Hungarian Post and its subsidiaries, and what's good for us taxpayers. Besides, they're encrypting. These cases only show that you are not developing and making the Hungarian Posta more competitive, but are serving the interests of a private group of companies. That's what the amendment to the postal law you tabled last week is about. On this basis, financial institutions can take over postal services in settlements of less than 10 000 persons. This means that postal closures and cuts are expected, as since 2010 more than 3,500 people have been sent away from the Post Office. Then I ask: why don't financial services move to the post office in smaller settlements? How many mailmen will be affected by this conversion? Why aren't the savings cooperatives cutting down? Will they terminate a contract with the Posta Partners? Will they give the business to the savings cooperative without a tender? Which county will be most affected by this restructuring? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-29-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-03-29-125	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to start by saying that Mr President has asked so many questions that I would suggest that, before negotiating the Postal Law, after the submission, there should be a five-party consultation on the content of the law. So, in answer to your question: on behalf of the government, I initiate the parliamentary factions to discuss the amendment of the Postal Act after submission, and before the parliamentary hearing there should be a five-party agreement, given that Magyar Posta is an undertaking of the Hungarian State which is already required to maintain and combat in the liberalised market, and whose task is to carry out, as far as possible, the universal services which are the original obligation of the Post and also to do everything to ensure that it is able to cope with the liberalised market for postal services. [[16.10]] What I can tell you is that in recent years, Posta has made profits without any support from the state and the European Union. So it can't be so bad if Posta doesn't need the support of taxpayers, but is able to stop in a fully liberalised market. What is the financial services of settlements under 10 thousand or larger settlements, let me draw your attention to the fact that I believe that in a settlement the cooperation of municipal authorities, savings cooperatives, post office as a state exit point [[Dr. András Schiffer: Open the mail again!]] be clarified together with district offices or district customer service points. I believe that the fact that Magyar Posta sells sovereign debt will help the Treasury to create the country's financing conditions, and that Posta will cooperate with the Hungarian banking sector - I do not know where it gets that it is just a bank - I believe that it will strengthen and weaken its positions in itself. I call on the Member to support this work and I am ready to negotiate with the parliamentary parties. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-03-29-126	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from the congressman, please.
u2016-03-29-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Your State Secretary, Mrs Lászlón Németh, said here in Parliament and at the meeting of the Parliament's Legislative Committee that in 2013, without competition, the Posta concluded an agreement with the FHB Group, so I take it from here that she has a contractual relationship with him. And I would like to draw the Minister's attention to the fact that Posta does not sell these treasury bills, but half of them are privately owned Magyar Posta Bézik Zrt., where the FHB group also appears. And the problem is exactly that we don't see the background to these transactions. That is why you have tabled a bill as a motion for individual representatives so that we may not know it. If you really expected us to negotiate and agree on this, you would not have supported legislation that would encrypt the contracts under which this privately owned company, group, got into the Hungarian Post and appeared as a hidden privatiser in the field of services. Give me the contracts that I asked you to give me the right information, then we might be able to negotiate. Thank you.
u2016-03-29-128	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is given to Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-03-29-129	Thank you very much. My colleague, State Secretary Völner, asked me to remind you of the history of Postabank during the blessed prime ministership of Gyula Horn and its bankruptcy. There's no way I'd do that. [[Defiance from the benches of the governing parties.]] However, what I will do, Congressman, is try to understand what you are asking. As I understand it, your problem is that Magyar Posta, as before, cooperates with a Hungarian-owned bank or cooperates with savings cooperatives owned by Hungarian citizens. Which foreign bank is in violation of this? On whose behalf are you asking, Congressman? What foreign bank hurts that hundreds of thousands of Hungarians own savings cooperatives [[Dr. Bertalan Tóth: Owner of Offshore!]] is the Post Office working together? Tell me, is it against the interests of Erste Bank, is it against the interests of Raiffeisen, or whose interests is it, Congressman? On the other hand, I tried to explain to you and everyone that, unlike other public companies, Magyar Posta works in a liberalised market, which means that all information is public in universal service; market information is public in competition with the market, even though you ask [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We can't publish it. By amending Attila Péterfalvi, Parliament adopted the law - it will meet all constitutional requirements. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-03-29-130	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: why do you want to keep education at 20th century level at all costs? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I respectfully inform you that the Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask you whether you accept the person who is responding, or whether you are personally asking the Prime Minister for an answer.
u2016-03-29-131	Thank you, Mr. President. With a heavy heart, I refuse the Minister and wait for the Prime Minister's answer. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-03-29-132	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to inform you and this House that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Congressman János Volner, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question:, Why does György Matolcsy manage his own pocket money with the profits of the Hungarian National Bank? It's an address. Because of the urgent public mission of the President, as has already been done by the Congressman, [[Dr. András Schiffer: Where is he?]] You heard him, he appointed Vice-President Martin the Great to answer. I respectfully ask you whether you accept the person of the response or wait with the answer...
u2016-03-29-133	Mr. President, I'd like to wait for the President's arrival, with all due respect.
u2016-03-29-134	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the Member that the President must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs, representative of Jobbik, notary of the Parliament, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. Corruption Operational Programme? It's an address. The Minister appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to respond to his urgent public mission. I respectfully ask the notary whether she accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] You'll take it, thank you very much. Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs, the notary of the Parliament, is to be heard.
u2016-03-29-135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has recently said here in the Parliament that we do not owe the European Union anything because of the sources of tender, because as much as we receive as a grant, foreign investors are taking out of our country as profits. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. On this basis, we can say that every penny we receive or received to finance the operational programmes is the money of the Hungarian people, so the irresponsible use of these resources is the damage to the Hungarian people. At the same time, it is extremely shameful that, because of irregularities which are now being made public on the agenda, the European Union control authorities will impose a significant fine, or, as you call it, a financial correction on our country. Last time, the European Union suspended the payment of the funds due to our country because of the Widows programme financed from the TIOP. If we look at this project, we'll see some amazing numbers. Only about six of the actual amount of aid was used to achieve the substantive objectives. All the other friendly companies could have served as small-timers through so-called soft-costs. But it looks like there's been a significant payback to the public school support team. Dear Secretary of State, Please state here and now what the KLIK has spent the billions of dollars. Or were they trying to make up for the limited resources of the KLIK in such an illegal way? Why didn't the managing authority, the Ministry, notice what is obvious to everyone in this country, Mr. Secretary of State, namely that there has been a systematic and significant overinvoicing, unclear use of resources, let us call the child, in Hungarian: theft? Dear Secretary of State, When will it be? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Are you going to hold him accountable in this case? When does Zoltán Balog resign? Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches. Interpreting from the same place: That's right! János Lázár: He does not plan!]]
u2016-03-29-136	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. [[In the direction of Dr. Benedict of Retvári, the predecessor of Novak is waiting for him, too, from the benches of Jobbik.]] We will hear the answer from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-29-137	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and [[Noise from the benches of opposition parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] If you make such serious accusations on such a serious issue, at least the name of the operational programme should be given. You didn't make it. The Belts programme is not included in the operational programme TIOP, but in the other operational programme TÁMOP. Therefore, I suggest that if you speak later - I see that this task has been assigned to you by your faction to speak in these - you should receive an excipient, background material, in which at least [[Zoltán Grimlock: What's that got to do with you?]] the operational programme is right, since the Öveges programme has been applied to the operational programme for social renewal, TÁMOP, and not to the TIOP, which generally relates to infrastructure building. Indeed, we believe that all the funds from the European Union are due to Hungarian citizens. Many years ago, when Hungary made the decision to open its market to Western European companies in the common market within the common economic area of the European Union, it gave an advantage that did not exist at the time for Hungarian companies and, therefore, for Hungary to implement common policies, these amounts were due. They're not charity, as they like to say these days. In particular, socialist, social democrat politicians in Western Europe are blackmailing the Eastern countries by saying that if they do not accept immigrants, they will withdraw EU funds from them. According to the law, according to the accession documents, they come to the countries for a completely different reason, and we believe that they also give a strong boost to Western European companies, as in many cases 4 forints from 10 forints that have arrived will land in German companies, so they have also helped them within the common European market. As regards the procedure for the specific Belt Programme [[György Szilágyi: 10 seconds!]] we shall consult with the Commission on a continuous basis. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] [[16.20]] Last time, we received documents from them in March, to which we naturally responded. We strive to keep the suspension period as short as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-29-138	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs. Here you go.
u2016-03-29-139	Secretary of State, you should be informed, because Nándor Csepreghy himself said so in the press, he identified the TIOP sources for the Belts programme. But, by the way, you're right, let's talk about the suspension of the KEOP resources, that is, the things István Tiborcz and Elios are wearing, the resources suspended in the KözOp issue, the resources suspended in TÁMOP, the resources suspended in the GOP! How many operational programmes didn't have such a failure? How many billion forints do you owe to Hungarian tax-paying citizens, Mr. Secretary of State? It would have been very good if you had spent two minutes of your two minutes at your disposal to give a meaningful answer to the question of who is responsible for this loss of billions. Why don't you just resign, Zoltán Balog? In a normal EU country, a minister responsible for losing resources of this magnitude could not remain in his seat. Ceterum censeo, Zoltán Balog must resign. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-29-140	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2016-03-29-141	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I feel that you've been under extreme tension from a decade ago, but believe me, the more you tell me about it, the stronger Zoltán Balog's position will be. This kind of tension should not be brought into Parliament from outside Parliament, it will be resolved in another forum. [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] Do not use your Membership to try to bring old grievances into Parliament's walls. Within the amount of HUF 9600 billion that we managed to boost the Hungarian economy, reduce social differences, increase social knowledge, it is all HUF 130 billion that is disputed, which is under all the procedures, and we all know that a large part of which we all know will be received by those to whom this is due by law, only the Union has suspended these payments in a certain larger circle. Again, 130 billion out of 9600 is the amount. I think that all Hungarian Members of Parliament should rather support the rapid drawdown of these funds in Brussels. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-29-142	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister for National Development an immediate question: "Dudes, parties, casinos? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. János Fónagy Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. Through metacommunication, Congressman tells me that he does not accept the person who is responding. Thank you very much, Congressman. Minister will have to answer at the next second instant question hour. Dear Parliament, Congressman András Schiffer, representative of the LMP, the leader of the group, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How much is it worth who doesn't have anything? It's an address. In view of the urgent public mission of Prime Minister János Lázár has appointed a minister leading the Prime Minister's Office to reply. I respectfully ask Mr. Group Leader whether he accepts the person of the responding party or asks the Prime Minister for his answer in person.
u2016-03-29-143	There is no doubt that Minister can give an authentic answer, but I would rather wait for the Prime Minister.
u2016-03-29-144	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I would like to inform you and this House that the Prime Minister must answer the question at the hour of the third immediate question. I must ask the question once again, because it must be said in accordance with the Rules of the House: honourable House, Mr András Schiffer, representative of the LMP, the leader of the group, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. The national bourgeoisie goes to a tax haven? It's an address. Prime Minister János Lázár appointed a minister leading the Prime Minister's Office in response to his urgent public mission. I respectfully ask the Member, Mr Group leader, whether he accepts the person of the response, or whether he asks the Prime Minister for the answer personally.
u2016-03-29-145	Thank you very much, I appreciate the Minister's intention, but the thing is that I think Prime Minister has the most intriguing knowledge of the answer, so I have to wait for him. Thank you.
u2016-03-29-146	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I would like to inform you and this House that the Prime Minister must answer the question at the hour of the third immediate question. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, notary of the National Assembly, wishes to ask the President of the National Bank of Hungary an immediate question: "The National Bank of Hungary is above the law? It's an address. Mr President has appointed Vice-President Márton Nagy to respond to his urgent public mission. I respectfully ask the notary whether she accepts the person to whom she is responding or asks Mr President for her answer in person.
u2016-03-29-147	Thank you very much. I'll wait for President Matolcsy. My colleague would like to know where he is.
u2016-03-29-148	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to inform you that this was not a house-to-house comment. Mr. President, you're doing an urgent public task. However, I would like to inform you that Mr President will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. I must ask you once again the following question: Honourable Parliament, Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, notary of the Parliament, would like to ask the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question. It's an address. Since Minister János Lázár is in the Chamber, it is up to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck. Here you go.
u2016-03-29-149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Since our accession to the EU, a daily HUF 3 billion of EU funds have arrived in Hungary. EU funds could be a huge opportunity for Hungary if the government could use it, but the experience so far shows that it cannot. What we see is that some of the money is being misused, misused, and some of it is simply being stolen. They already know that in Brussels. According to the news, an entire operational program has just been suspended. The LMP has drawn attention to the fraud of the Belt Program, but it seems to be in vain. If the government took the warning seriously and eliminated corruption, there would be no suspension now, and tens of billions of forints would not be in danger. The government probably does not want to face the fact that the billions of EU funds are spent in vain, poorly, and that it is not even ashamed that a significant part of the funds will enrich the oligarchs of Fidesz and its hinterland. If you had nothing to hide from the government, then, Minister, you would have fulfilled the promise that has already been made here twice recently, which you promised me, Minister, to bring to Parliament an assessment of the use of EU funds for 2007-2013. That hasn't happened to this day. The biggest problem is that systematically, with the highest level of government assistance, EU funds for catching up will be stolen and squandered as a criminal network. I would like to ask Minister: when will the promise that the OGY will have an evaluation of the use of EU funds for 2007-2013 be fulfilled? My second question is what steps you intend to take to eliminate abuses in the use of EU funds.
u2016-03-29-150	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be given by Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-03-29-151	Thank you very much. Honourable Parliament! Ladies and gentlemen, First, the comment made in the statement should be made clear whether we receive a gift of HUF 3 billion a day, or whether we are struggling to draw our own money, which is not a big deal. Hungary was a net contributor to the 2007-13 development period, which means that we paid approximately HUF 3000-3500 billion and that the amount we received could be HUF 5500-6000 billion. Unfortunately, there are no calculations available that, if Hungary does not enter the European Union in 2004, what damage we will suffer and what economic benefits we will get. It is not a gift money that we have received, but, in my opinion, in the most optimal case, we can recover our own former resources, with difficult bureaucratic obstacles. The European Commission is making every effort to make it difficult for the Member States designated for cohesion to obtain their cohesion money. [[It's constant noise.]] I'm sorry, Mr. President, it's a little noisy, and I need you to help me because I can't tell you. So the European Union is doing everything in its power to make it difficult to draw the money we owe, which is our own money. On the other hand, they want to prove that we can't get him down. Hungary is the country that has committed 106 percent of the available resources, 70 percent of Romania, 80 percent of Slovakia, and only 100 percent of the Czech Republic and Poland. That means we were able to get our own money back, get it down, get it back. [[16.30]] The question is, what a mistake we made. But for HUF 9600 billion, one or two percent error is fully consistent with the European trend. I do not dispute the right of the opposition to demand who is responsible, to hold those who have made mistakes accountable. It's the opposition's job to account for executive power. This is serious. That is why I proposed and I kept my offer, and I wrote to the Speaker to start a parliamentary debate on how EU money was used, as well as on practicality and regularity. I am counting on the woman representing the debate. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-29-152	Thank you very much, Minister. Congresswoman's got the floor. Here you go.
u2016-03-29-153	Minister, I don't think there's any difference between us that it's not a gift money. Therefore, since we were net contributors of our own money, we should pay much more attention to how we spend the money. It cannot be the standard of how much we can draw from Brussels, but it should be the standard of what and how we use these funds. It is well known that EU support is one of the most important elements of economic growth in Hungary today. The question is that if we don't use it well for non-production investments and the money is stolen, then what happens after 2018. What will become of economic development in Hungary? What will become jobs, and how can we say that, yes, Hungary is entering the sustainable path? These are very important questions. I have not been answered, Minister, that there will be a debate here in Parliament, but that does not mean that you will fulfill your promise that an evaluation will be carried out for the period 2007-2013. This would be a very important element of this debate, and I ask you, Minister, to fulfill your promise.
u2016-03-29-154	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is given to Minister János Lázár. Here you go.
u2016-03-29-155	Firstly, Congresswoman, our Secretary of State responsible for drawing and allocating EU funds has entrusted consultants with preparing an objective assessment based on international standards. So there will also be an objective assessment of what the money was used for and how it was used. Unlike you, I'm not that pessimistic. I believe that the overwhelming proportion of this money, most of it, 90 percent, has been well used. Even if many people criticize urban development, many people criticize infrastructure development, it has benefited. I believe that if you go all the way across the country, there's a sign of this money. Another issue is whether or not it has increased competitiveness for the economy. I would like to point out that in the current development cycle, we have committed 60 percent to economic development, support for companies and productive investments. And what is very important is that, in cooperation with the European Commission, we have changed the distribution system in its entirety, and now we are making the evaluation system transparent. We're doing everything we can to make sure that we don't just call off the money, but that we can make good use of it. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-29-156	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman István Happy, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question: "The country of relatives?" Where does the income of the immediate relatives of better politicians come from? It's an address. [[György Szilágyi: Let's hear it!]] Minister Pál Völner has appointed Minister of State to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Congressman's okay with it. The floor is a happy Member, István, and I ask my fellow Members to listen.
u2016-03-29-157	Dear Secretary of State, Jobbik has recently paid particular attention to public funds and is conducting a so-called anti-corruption campaign. Last time Gábor Vona, president of the party, demanded that a 13th be added to the 12 points on the 15th of March, on our national holiday, which is to say that thieves are put in jail. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] I think we need to be serious about something serious. [[Intercoms from Fidesz and Jobbik. The president's ringing the bell.]] Corruption and transparency are serious things.
u2016-03-29-158	Congressman Novak Foreman!
u2016-03-29-159	Clean management of public funds is not only a political issue, but also a legal issue arising from the Fundamental Law. Therefore, when any political party asks us to be transparent about public money, we must remind it that it can only be credible if it fully complies with the laws itself. Article 39 (2) of the Fundamental Law states that all public-sector organisations are obliged to take public account of their public-money management. Why am I stressing this now? Last April, an investigative news portal wanted to find out what the nine party foundations in Hungary are spending their resources on. Interestingly, Jobbik's party foundation was the only one of the nine party foundations currently receiving state aid who refused to tell us what they were spending their respective state aid of hundreds of millions each year. [[Dóra Dúró: It's not true.]] More recently, information has come to light that can answer the question of what the party foundation could use from 2011 to 2015 for 1100 million HUF. It turned out that the editor-in-chief of the party newspaper Barikad was Krisztina Vona-Szabó for years in practice, and Magyar Hírek Kft. Owned [[There's a lot of noise in Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] which was owned by Gábor Vona himself. I think this situation raises a number of questions. First, how is it compatible with the legislation in force that the party foundation did not report or report late? Can we speak of undue gain in this case, when it is clear that a party leader's close relative has obtained money? I ask the Secretary of State whether the clearance and transparency of public funds has been lawful. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-29-160	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner. Here you go.
u2016-03-29-161	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, [[There's always a lot of noise in Jobbik's ranks. György Szilágyi intervenes.]] Unfortunately, it's not the only time...
u2016-03-29-162	Congressman György Szilágyi! Mr. Secretary of State has the floor.
u2016-03-29-163	... on certain topics that Jobbik preaches water, but drinks wine. So it is very well known, as you mentioned in your immediate question, that the accountability and accounting of publicly owned entities is a constitutional requirement. These include party foundations. It can't be shoreless, it can't be out of control. The guarantee of the legality of farming and operation is guaranteed by legislation. These include the need to provide data, which, as you mentioned, has been omitted in this case. Under the laws, the party foundation is obliged to draw up an annual report in accordance with the provisions of the Accounting Act and send it to the National Court Office for deposit and publication. At the same time, it is obliged to report on its activities, to be published in the official notice and on its website. So when we talk about evidence, facts, they have to be taken into account. So it's easy to tell who's making this untrue. Unfortunately, Jobbik not only has such problems in connection with the party foundation, but according to the State Audit Office's statements, the party itself did not provide credible balance sheets in the period 2005-2008. In January 2010, he published these, but he still had a number of grievances. In the report on the control of the legality of Jobbik's 2009-2010 management, the SAO also concluded that the principles of completeness, authenticity, consistency and materiality laid down in the Accounting Act were infringed. In the period 2011-2012, the SAO also took the view that the reports published by the party did not comply with the legal requirements. So public money, taxpayers' money, is not transparently accounted for by the party. Unfortunately, the immediate question on the part of the Member is justified. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-29-164	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. For a one-minute rejoinder, the floor is Mr. István Happy. Here you go.
u2016-03-29-165	Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your answer. I would also like to stress once again that the Foundation for Gyarapodó Hungary received a budget of HUF 1100 million between 2011 and 2015. [[István Apáti: How many zeroes do you see?]] Accordingly, it manages public funds and the Constitutional Court's decision of 2015 also pointed out that, under the Law on Freedom of Information, it does not constitute a commercial secret in the public interest by reference to the use of the central budget and the allocation of the budget. Magyar Hírek Kft. Some of its revenue comes exclusively from a better party foundation with State money. Until November 2015, the party foundation supported Hungarian News with HUF 97 million. This is about a fifth of their total revenue for 2010-2014. In this, too, they speak to him exactly as in the accumulation of jobs, where mayors, local representatives and county representatives are their politicians, while others have been accused of job accumulation. [[Interview from Fidesz: That's right. Spectacular applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-29-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. For a one-minute rejoinder, Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, has the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-29-167	Thank you very much for the floor. [[There's constant noise, interruptions in Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] Indeed, it is clear from what the Member has said that public money will be private money and how regrettable it is that the party president himself is involved in these matters through his family and his company. The facts are facts, unfortunately, they speak for themselves. But even sadder than that, Jobbik's spiritual moonyard may have been shaded by the fact that a car repair company was paid 6 million HUF for studies, a car rental company for 18 million HUF for studies, a transport company received 4.4 million HUF for a study on radical trends in Europe and the crisis in Iceland. [[16.40]] IT Company [[István Apáti: Even car mechanics are so skilled here!]] He received 8 million forints. So I guess [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] After Béla Kovács or even David Janiczak, new problems arise in the party's cash register. (Noise. - The president's ringing. You're gonna have to follow the law better. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-29-168	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Anita Heringes, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question:, Will it not be like last year? It's an address. Congresswoman Anita Heringes has the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-03-29-169	Thank you very much. Paks was selected 49 years ago as the site of the nuclear power plant built in Hungary. Since then, there has been a strong connection between the city, the region and the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. The city and its surroundings support the Paks Nuclear Power Plant with full breast width, only in this way can this company be effective. Now I'm standing in front of you again, like last year. In 2016, we were still confused about the fact that neither sport, civil society organisations, nor the nuclear power plant's own foundation, nor the local press, nor the settlements of the region received their support for 2016. They've been destroying a well-functioning trust system for decades right now. We also know that these subsidies are born in Pest today, not in Paks. This is a very painful point for all areas. The press and municipalities are expected to provide information on the Paks Nuclear Power Plant and to inform the public. So far, this support has been provided by the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, RHK or MVM. Now, unfortunately, they don't even have a promise. They were informed in the background that the settlements would not count on this money in their 2016 budget. The acceptance of the power plant was only increased by the results of the Paks athletes and departments. They were proud of the city, and they were proud to wear the emblem of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. The ASE basketball team is in second place, the Paks soccer team is in sixth place right now on the palette. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Shame!]] I think everyone would be proud of such a result. It's not a pretty vision of a new stadium, and maybe by then there won't be anyone to play in it. The expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant was called the investment of the century. Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, Paks II. I am asking your owner and President of the Paks Social Council what to expect in the future [[Dr. András Schiffer: Stadion Coalition!]] It's not gonna be like this every year, is it, like, April and the future of regional leaders, Paks athletes and sports clubs is uncertain? Calm me down, you won't let the area down. You know, Minister, it's a give-and-take system. Thank you.
u2016-03-29-170	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-03-29-171	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, After Paks II. I exercise ownership rights. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks: Uh-oh!]] And I'm trying to get the investment back on its feet and back on its feet, and I'm just learning the language that the congresswoman is using, I mean, that she's standing right in front of me, and that give-and-take system needs a linguistic interpretation of what she's trying to say. What I understand from what has been said is that the aid granted so far by the Paks I nuclear power plant has not been received last year, like the original practice of the past decades, nor can it be expected this year. First of all, Congresswoman, you know precisely, because it is very helpful to do this work by creating new mechanisms in social consultations on the maintenance of capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, providing financial resources to the municipalities, I think you are witnessing these resource-sharing discussions which contribute to the development of settlements and their quality of life investments. I can promise you, Congresswoman, that you and my fellow Member Ferenc Hirt are welcome to join me in inviting Minister Seszták to discuss the pace and order of payment of Paks I grants, if any. We need to make sure that there's a source for that. I can broadcast. I can provide resources from Paks II, and in the case of Paks I, I can help make these resources available. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Build a stadium, not a nuclear power plant.]] I'm sure we'll find a solution together. I suggest that we sit down and discuss this issue with Ferenc Hirt, a representative of the region, with you, who is very fond of the Paksians and, on the other hand, with the Ministry, which is concerned on this issue. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-29-172	Thank you very much, Minister. A woman representing a one-minute rejoinder has the floor.
u2016-03-29-173	Thank you very much. What I meant was that the Paks area, the surrounding settlements and the population give you confidence, you have to give you the opportunity, because it's the end of March, it's almost April, the football season is over slowly, the stadium investment would start, and the football players will end up standing there, and then what happens to them. The settlements in the region receive information that they do not count on these funds in their 2016 budget, then there really is uncertainty. I've told the Minister several times that there's one thing wrong with Paks when there's uncertainty. I think we need to speak up, ask and ask if we can trust him. It's very unpleasant when it's April 2016 and we haven't seen what the future will be. So I'm very hopeful, hopeful in the region. I think everyone's waiting for an answer. Thank you.
u2016-03-29-174	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder is given to Minister János Lázár.
u2016-03-29-175	First of all, Mr President, if I may, I would like to inform the House that I will immediately inform the Prime Minister that he has found a new ally in his commitment to football and the social importance of stadium building in our fellow Member, Mr Heringes [[Delight and applause from the ranks of LMP and Fidesz.]] which significantly nuances the official attitude of the MSZP, which sees stadium building as a waste of money and billions spent on football as a similar waste of money. [[Anita Herring: Some slide!]] I am pleased that the Congresswoman supports the Prime Minister's programme and does not belong to the camp of doubters. I ask you to represent this within the MSZP, it will help your country and national sport. As far as the second part is concerned, my dear Member, we do not want promises or encouragement, but money. If the deals and arrangements that have been made so far have been respected by the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, there is obviously a reason why they have been suspended so far, we managed to find a solution with you last year, together with Congressman Ferenc Hirt. I think that my fellow Member, Aradsk, can also assure us that, as an expert of the NFM present, we will find a solution. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] to pay the money. We count on the support of the citizens of Paks, and they can count on us. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-29-176	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Representative Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question:. Their generosity is boundless? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr.István Nagy Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I respectfully ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] The congressman indicates that he accepts the person who is responding. Mr Zoltán Magyar has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-29-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! 'It doesn't matter who's related to him,' said the secretary of state, his immediate superior, Minister Fazekas. This claim could even be accepted if we were not living in a country where, during the privatisation of state lands, the names of government members, their wives, relatives, friends and friends would not always fall into the names of those who watch these announcements. Unfortunately, we do not live in a country like this, since today we have at least three ministers, a dozen state ministers and at least once so many Fidesz politicians in the area of state lands. We will probably not agree with Mr Secretary of State whether it is good to sell state land. We've argued about this a number of times, and unfortunately, we didn't come to a conclusion. Jobbik's strong opinion is that this is an endlessly tragic event, as we are playing one of our last national assets. However, there are some specifics here that I would like to get a substantive answer to. The fact that Bábolna, what was left of it and not stolen by the socialist governments and you and Szilvásvárad and Mezőhegyes after the funny little auction, after they didn't give the land to those who won the first round, so that they became prominent sample farms, I can even agree with that. However, what we do not understand is why the Csányi Empire has earned special treatment, let us say, and so not only does it not lose its land, but it can, for example, continue to manage ridiculous rents and applications. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] will be given a prominent role. It is not rural development, Mr Secretary of State, that Minister Szijjártó is flying around the world and, let's say, he is trying to force the products of this interest into other countries. But let's look at the facts. What do you say? You claimed that the proportion of large and small plants will be reduced to 80:20 per cent, i.e. that large plants will only participate in 20% of the life of the Hungarian countryside. Compared to this, the number and proportion of their land have increased by 50 percent since they were governed. They promised that the locals would get the state land. In the luckier counties, it reached 30 percent. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] the proportion of people living on the ground, but it was usually much worse. What farming can be done from 70 kilometers away, Mr. Secretary? 'Cause these winners usually live 70 kilometers away. [[16.50]] How is it that Fejér County, Budapest, Felsút and Székesfehérvár...
u2016-03-29-178	Congressman! I put 30 seconds on it. That's how far my grace period goes.
u2016-03-29-179	[[Without sound:]] I look forward to your substantive response to these. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik. János Lázár: Give the government 30 seconds!]]
u2016-03-29-180	It's for the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-29-181	We talk about this a lot and a lot of times. [[Interview from the benches of MSZP: Not enough!]] You are debating whether the sale of state land is good, and we are saying that it is, because there is a structure of property that can be calculated in the long term with ownership. And I have to say that any categorization, any attack, could be considered a modern-day host hunt. Small or large, close to Fidesz or remote, this is also a voluntary, arbitrary category on your part, which I must strongly reject. In addition, all sales are made by auction within the public framework. Every starting price was created at an additional 10% of the local land prices of the NFA. What else needs to be done, my dear fellow Member, to ensure that this is a transparent, clear process? I don't understand your relationship with the Field Point. After all, there can be a model economy that can serve as a basis for modern Hungarian agriculture with a long history. I do not understand the attack of the Csányi estate, because if there is an outstanding quality category in Hungarian agriculture, then those estates are absolute. In fact, it can be set as an example of innovation, product development, quality assurance, as it offers opportunities. And for the many times, he's put on how to support companies and how he's changed. My dear fellow Member, Anyone who doesn't know and listens to us can even believe what you're saying. But precisely in order to provide additional support for livestock production - and since we know very well that most of the cattle population is located in the larger farms, most of our pig farming is located in the larger farms, it praises the support of the Hungarian government that we add this much extra money to livestock production, which is why we have more money, which is why we have more support than the large ones, and not because the structure of the estate has developed that way. The government is very, very struggling with the construction of the current estate structure, it has received many attacks, we have received a lot of unworthy attacks for this, but I think that in the long term we can build an excellent Hungarian agriculture in the future with an appropriate estate structure. Thank you very much for asking. [[Intruder from the benches of Fidesz: So be it!]]
u2016-03-29-182	Thank you very much. I gave Secretary of State the same 30 seconds. With this, the rules of chivalry also set the time frame. A one-minute rejoinder is the word of Congressman Zoltán Magyar.
u2016-03-29-183	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. You have promised a new country, but not that this new country will go to South America. Not a country where drivers and tractors can spend 500-600-800 million forints on state land, and not a country where your parliamentary representative, László Vigh, has been promised He can buy land for five centuries, and he can buy land from the local government where he was mayor for 20 years, which was previously compensated for by public funds. Wherever you can, take out the money and the state land. Stop this privatisation immediately, Mr. Secretary. And instead of considering this and drawing conclusions, instead, the most recent news is that the orchards, the fish ponds, and if all is true, the state forests will soon be bidding. Stop him, Mr. Secretary. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-29-184	Thank you very much, Congressman. István Nagy, Secretary of State, please.
u2016-03-29-185	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My dear fellow Member, I definitely have to reject all your accusations, because when things happen in public auction, and the winner of the auction does not yet show the winner of the purchase price, because the rules of the Land Law will only come into force after that, the postings will follow, after the purchase, at the post-exposition state, the owner can be announced. Our fellow Member Vigh has withdrawn his purchase So you can't give me that as an example. Everywhere - and I would like to stress this very much - land prices have occurred at an extra 10% higher price than usual, many farmers complain that it is difficult to buy land from the state, because it is very difficult. In addition, 5 percent of the Hungarian soil, of which we know very well that only 60 percent have sold, so we are talking about only 2-3 percent, and that is why you want to make a judgment. Definitely refuse! Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-29-186	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Member István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: å Is it still worth hundreds of billions of forints to please Viktor Orbán about the transformation of the Buda Castle? It's an address. Congressman István Ikotity has the floor, please.
u2016-03-29-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, I quote from an open letter. We cannot agree with the anti-democratic way in which government decisions and actions are taken. First at committee meetings, then in our letters to László L. Simon and to you, we failed to draw attention to the clearly negative effects of government plans on the Buda Castle and therefore the City Park, but more generally on the city structure, transport, land use, cultural life and tourism of the entire capital. Among other things, he wrote to you in an open letter to Minister Zsófia Csomay architect, Pál Lővei art historian and István Schneller, former chief architect of Budapest, when they announced that they would leave the social corps of the national Hauszmann plan. The three renowned, creative experts also considered the government's plan to transform the Buda Castle unthinkable, meaningless and harmful. In Hungary, millions of people still do not have access to essential cultural goods, not to mention participation in cultural value creation. Culture is an essential tool for our social inclusion, the fourth pillar of sustainability. According to the LMP, we should spend much more on access to and participation in the culture of the majority than on prestige investments available to the few, especially Viktor Orbán's wish to move to the Castle. The transformation of the Buda Castle or the Városliget project consumes hundreds of billions of forints. The well-known authors of the letter make serious criticisms. The Hausmann plan has failed anyway, but as time passes, we can also see that it is bleeding from more and more wounds. Dear Minister, Even after this, the Castle wants to kill hundreds of billions in Viktor Orbán's fantasy. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] About his remodeling? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-03-29-188	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Minister János Lázár, please, Minister.
u2016-03-29-189	Your Honour, my fellow Member. Thank you for asking. I would warn the Member, although I am not a member of the Cultural Committee, that memory is the most important part of national culture. And what you are asking us to do is to know why national culture cannot be accessed by others and why we are trying to limit the possibility of access to national culture, the claim on this issue is false. What kind of program does the reconstruction of the Buda Castle Palace mean? First of all, it means that the National Széchényi Library in today's unworthy circumstances will be placed under worthy conditions as a result of a HUF 40 billion investment. What does the reconstruction of the Buda Castle Palace mean? It means that the National Gallery will be in worthy circumstances. How much do you go to the National Gallery? How well do you know this collection? How much do you go to the National Széchényi Library? How well do you know this collection? How can a person who takes responsibility for culture say that these collections are in good place and in good condition? They must be placed in dignified conditions and have access to everyone. The question is, what condition should the castle palace be restored to? You can argue: the 18th. The 19th century, 19th century. The state of the first half of the century or the state of the Hausmann conversion? Congressman! I'm not arguing with the architects' opinions. It is worth grabbing Hauszmann's oeuvre and his condition back then, because it will be partly worth it to Hungary, because one of Hungary's most distinguished, one of the world's most important tourist heritage is the Buda Castle Palace, and on the other hand, don't forget, Congressman, that what stands there now is ugly, and Hauszmann's building was beautiful. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[Mrs. Loránt Violin takes over her notary seat.]]
u2016-03-29-190	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder is the congressman's word. Here you go.
u2016-03-29-191	Thank you for the floor. I have the entire letter, by the way, which these people I just mentioned have listed. I have to say that renowned architects, competent people think of this as building a structure that was built during the millennium, and then stood for a few decades, now refurbishing it, and, in fact, in the late 2010s, hoping that its plaster stucco will be intrigued by tourists, basically a misunderstanding. So it's a net anachronism that's built there, we think. We do not think that this is about HUF 350-400 billion, which we are talking about here, because the plans are about this amount, this is the most effective way to place this gallery or even the library you mentioned. [[17.00]] Obviously, they must be placed under appropriate and worthy circumstances; that this can be done by renovation, enlargement or any other method, or, in a way, by such an investment, which we can only say is megaloman and anachronistic, then, I think it can be decided, but what is definitely [[The president's ringing the bell.]] We stand for the proposal offered by architects.
u2016-03-29-192	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Minister János Lázár. Here you go.
u2016-03-29-193	Congressman, I think we will not agree on all issues, especially the fact that Hungary, for us Christian Democrats and Fidesz people, is always the country of St. Stephen, regardless of the state form, and in the last thousand years the Buda Castle and its symbolic buildings have been regarded as the centre of power in St. Stephen's Hungary. We can also talk about Székesfehérvár, of course, we can talk about Esztergom, the reconstruction of this is also part of the government's plans. If there's only so much debate between us, Congressman, it's the 18th. The Buda Castle Palace format of the century was built, which was formed during Maria Theresa, or the 19th century. The building format of the first 70 years of the century is, of course, open to discussion. I would like to draw the Member's attention - and I do not criticise the ability of Hungarian architecture - that the Socialist Government has issued a design contest for the installation of the missing parts of the building. Take a look, Congressman, that the members of the Hungarian Architect's Department of Architecture are going to see what they have planned. I don't think it's any more beautiful than what our ancestors have created for centuries. Please support this project because it's good for the country. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-29-194	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, This is the last immediate question. Congressman Zsolt Legény, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question, who is responsible for this? It's an address. Congressman Zsolt Legányi should take the floor. Here you go.
u2016-03-29-195	Mr President, thank you for the opportunity to say my last question in the hour of immediate questioning. Dear Minister, The Parliament - how shall I put it? - because of the order I'm going to be dealing with this Tiop issue or TIFO problem for the third time today. With a document dated 23 March, the European Commission suspended interim payments to the social infrastructure operational programme, which the EU is paying to Hungary from the European Regional Development Fund. In this TIOP programme, they support such things as education, training, health care or the development of infrastructure for labour market and social services. According to our information, about 10 percent of the total amount has not been transferred to Hungary, because they have found various problems with Hungarian applications, and as we have already heard, the Commission has problems with KEOP and TÁMOP operational programmes and road construction applications, in addition to the TIOP programme, which has now been suspended. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs in the notary seat will be replaced by Attila Gelencsér.]] On the basis of previous information, the Commission not only had problems with certain details of the programme, but also had problems with the management and control system of the proposals, resulting in a total withdrawal of billions of HUF for Hungary. Minister, my question is relatively simple: are you, as the minister responsible for drawing and using EU funds, or, as it belongs to, has you ordered an inquiry into who is responsible for this, what reasons could have led to this withdrawal in Hungary, possibly trying to find out at the Ministry or at one of its back institutions how this thing could have happened? Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-03-29-196	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-03-29-197	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Before the opposition becomes involved in the accounting debate and accounting issues of EU funds, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in the last seven years Hungary has had dozens of similar and even much larger debates with the European Commission. Only when I took over this area, all operational programmes were suspended. The suspension means that the invoices submitted by Hungary are not or cannot be paid by the European Commission until the debates are resolved. There hasn't been any withdrawal, Congressman. At the moment, the European Commission has comments on the funding of this call on the basis of a report from a certain EUTAF investigating authority, and there was no need - I note in brackets - to order an investigation because the EUTAF ordered a parallel investigation with other authorities and organisations. What happens in this case? Firstly, we are debating these findings, so we do not agree with the European Commission's statement, or only agree partially, and that is why a conciliation procedure is taking place. Now the wallet will answer the objections, as we have done in 95 percent of the cases so far, every time we have concluded disputes by consensus. These are legal disputes concerning the regularity of financing, the timing of payment and the fulfilment of the conditions laid down in the grant agreement. These debates - again, except for asphalt - ended with a consensual closure, which meant that the Commission recognised part of the invoice and applied a correction in other parts of it. I would like to report that the strictest correction here would be 25 per cent, and the European Commission has proposed a minimum correction of 2 per cent on the basis of the negotiations so far, so I do not perceive that serious debate. Of course, while respecting the opposition's right of executive power, We account for every penny here, but I can't sense the huge mistake that would justify the desperation of HUF 9600 billion in terms of a few billion forints. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-29-198	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder is the congressman's word. Here you go.
u2016-03-29-199	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, The biggest problem we have is that not only, as I said, there were some details, but also some problems with the management and control system of proposals for the European Commission. As far as I know, there are two options from here on out: either we agree on a financial correction, which will mean a minimum or whatever kind of loss of resources, or - God forbid! - if the case were brought before the European Court of Justice, and Hungary would lose the total amount, I hope that this will not happen at all. I was wondering if you were trying to find out why it could have been that such a loss of resources could have occurred at all. Thank you.
u2016-03-29-200	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Minister will take the floor for a minute. Here you go.
u2016-03-29-201	I thank the Member for his correct attitude. The two-minute genre is not suitable to go to the depth of these legal disputes, accounting and accounting disputes, so I suggest that the Parliament discusses this or other types of EU funding issues. Allow me in any way, Congressman, to say that we have committed 9600 billion, but the budget is 9200 billion. In the most extreme case, if all the resources you are debating were lost, which has not been the case in any Member State, we would still be above the amount available - a country I believe to be an excellent performing country. We've committed $9,600 billion. There are a few hundred billion forints during the debate, and if everything was taken away from us by a hundred percent, they would not let us account for it, even if Hungary had agreed to do so in the 2007 partnership agreement. And, I note, we are constantly changing the systems that were under your control or later, but this genre is not suitable for the debate. That is why I propose Parliament's frameworks, either in a debate day or in a timetable set by the President. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-29-202	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, That concludes the immediate questions. It is now possible for Mr András Schiffer to speak on a case-by-case basis. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2016-03-29-203	Thank you. Mr President, according to the Rules of the House, I will present my motion for a point of order, and then there is one minute to justify the motion. Mr President, I would like to propose for the future that the President-in-Office should give an immediate question under Rule 91 of the Rules of the House. You shall immediately withdraw the floor from the competent representative. What has happened - this is no longer the first time - is that Mr Happy has asked a member of the government a question that I do not say to his competent member, which is clearly in accordance with Rule 91 of the Rules of Procedure. It is contrary to Article 2 of the Rules of Procedure, since it is not known that when a opposition party is being bullied, the Minister of Justice asks the Minister of Justice for information in precisely what function. I would like to point out that the management of parliamentary parties and party foundations is a non-governmental competence and falls within the competence of the Court of Auditors, so that a government person cannot answer such a question. Earlier, Congressman Pócs took on a similarly noble task, I think, for a Prime Minister's mandate, when he asked questions about Mr Sallai [[János Pócs intervenes.]] which is also a non-governmental competence. The genre of the immediate question is not intended for government representatives to grind their language on opposition representatives, which is why I would very much like to ask the President and the head of the House to look at the future, that is to say, Rule 91 of the House. Do not allow the Member to take the floor immediately, as is the question of Mr Happy here. Thank you very much. [[17.10]]
u2016-03-29-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Rules of the House clearly state that the person to whom the question is addressed is entitled to reject it in the first place. [[Dr. András Schiffer: That's not true!]] the answer. The senior president rarely gets the chance to drown someone at this address. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Well, you can.]] And to be honest, I wouldn't recommend it. In many cases, the chairman, especially on an immediate question [[Dr. András Schiffer: It's happened before!]] You're not in a position to judge that in a specific way. Thank you very much. Thank you for your cooperation. I give the chair to Vice-President István Jakab. I wish this House good work for the rest of the time. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2016-03-29-205	Dear Parliament, Welcome to my fellow Members. We will now continue our work by negotiating a series of requests for inclusion. The Jobbik Group has proposed that the Parliament decide to reduce the VAT burden on basic foodstuffs by CXXVII of 2007 on general sales tax. T/9334. on the inclusion of legislative proposals No. 1 in a series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Economic Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I will give the floor to the author in a five-minute time frame. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát will explain the position on behalf of the Group. You have the floor.
u2016-03-29-206	Mr President, Dear House, To the Jobbik order, he wishes to bring to the House packages of proposals that can reduce the burden on Hungarian families in a meaningful and short term. Why is that necessary? The last one-and-a-half-year period was largely covered by the question of immigration, and we could see its various symptoms and functions, but the foundation of this problem was, in fact, a demographic and demographic crack, which, without its existence, might not even be a question of what kind of force fields are trying to influence our continent, including Hungary. This pedestal is the amazing population collapse, which can be detected in Hungary for decades, calls for relief, at least slowing down the rate of population loss and then turning to growth. In fact, at any cost, i.e. essentially all budgetary and tax policy decisions should be subject to this objective. At the same time, we see that in Hungary we could operate with a very simple tool to make everyday life easier for families, and we do not reveal a secret if we say that this "wonder weapon" is a reduction in the VAT duration of basic foods, at least to a fair level in the first round. In front of me, there is a not so brief statement of the average, maximum and basic food VAT rates in European countries. Interestingly, we see that the highest general VAT rate for food in the European Union is in force in Hungary. The 27 percent key, which is basically applicable to most basic foods, assumes an incredibly overtaxed economy, not to mention the VAT duration of child rearing articles. We also see that the reduced VAT rate is the highest in Hungary, so even the 18 percent is considered to be outstanding. The lowest in Luxembourg is 3 per cent, in Malta it is 0 per cent and in Malta there are other examples that target levels of 5 per cent or less. Obviously, under 5 percent, this will require a separate boxing match with the European Union, but we, Jobbiques, will be ready to do so. It should be added that there is no preferential VAT rate for foodstuffs in Denmark, Lithuania, Bulgaria, Estonia and Slovakia. However, it can be said that perhaps they would not be the way forward in this respect and the example before us, but we can see that there are long debates between professionals and economists on the loss of the budget by at least implementing a reduction in the wider or narrower range of basic foods that would eliminate an unsustainable state. This untenable state is the fact that, today, all over Europe, Hungary is the most taxed on the purchase of basic consumer goods from families, as well as on raising children, these two are strategic key areas. We can see that this reduction to 5 percent, even according to the government portfolio, would only result in an annual VAT loss of over HUF 100 billion in the first direct way, but all of these models and calculations do not count on the rewinding positive effects, not counting on the fact that these funds are spent largely within national borders and largely for noble purposes, typically for child rearing articles and everyday living of families. We also see that we are not leaders at regional level in this regard. While I called on the government in the budget debate two years ago to find out that there are already 50 types of taxes and contributions in the accounting industry, I will now note in the budget debate that the total number of types of taxes and tax increases known by the accounting industry is approaching 60. That is why we say that, while last year's newscasts read that the VAT on more basic food is falling to 10 percent from 20 percent in the country already referred to as Slovakia, and that there is a significant reduction in Romania, the 10 percent and 9 percent target VAT that Jobbik would like to provide to Hungarian families is simply showing that the budget is able to generate the benefit that Jobbik would like to provide for Hungarian families. In this way, six years of governance, six years of almost two-thirds or two-thirds of governance, would be expected from the government to contribute to a common national minimum. In my view, a common national minimum could be achieved on this key issue, as it would make it felt easier for all families if the Government of Hungary finally noticed the problem, removed the overtaxed state, and provided a helping hand not only to the upper middle class, but to everyone. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-03-29-207	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Each Member may now express his position within a two-minute time frame and the independent representative to speak. No one came forward in writing. I'll ask if any of the factions would like to speak. [[For signal:]] Yes, I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, the LMP Group, in two minutes.
u2016-03-29-208	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The LMP supports Jobbik's proposal, although the list of products to be classified as 5 percent VAT lacks, for example, a number of important basic meats that should not be kept in a 27 percent range. That's fish and poultry meat. Due to Fidesz's alleged family-friendly tax policy, there is a reduction in the rent, and families will have 20-30 thousand HUF less in their wallets at the end of the month, even if they do not earn less and spend the same money as last year. That's how much it cost. For the majority of people, the purchase of food for healthy nutrition has become a luxury. Last year, Minister Lazarus said that from 1 January this year, the VAT on pig and poultry meat could fall below 10 per cent instead of 27 per cent. That's what happened. Behind this step is the shadow of OTP leader Sándor Csányi, interested in the pig sector. [[János Lázár: No de, Congresswoman!]] Then, following the recent demonstration of dairy producers, the Minister also stated that the reduction of milk VAT might be next. It can only be hoped that milk producers are worth as much to the government as the oligarchs. Then, last year, the other sectors, the fruit and vegetables sector, the mill industry, spoke and were shocked that the products they produced were not covered by the government VAT reduction. We think that if the government does not want to knock down Hungarian milk production and even the whole Hungarian food production, the VAT on basic food must be reduced immediately. The EU has an unprecedented 27 and 18 percent overall turnover tax that motivates VAT frauders. Due to tax evasion, the competitiveness of the Hungarian food sector is currently at stake. For this reason, the LMP supports the better bill. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-03-29-209	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr in a two-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2016-03-29-210	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Hungarian Socialist Party has repeatedly brought into Parliament the world record, 27 percent VAT and the need to reduce it. So it is not random that we are now in favour of Jobbik's proposal to Parliament, which is essentially endowed with the same internal content. We believe it doesn't matter which party you bring into Parliament's walls. [[How long has it been?]] what the Hungarian Socialist Party believes is in the best interests of the people, we support. [[Foreman Novak: It's not royalty, so take your time. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] [[17.20]] Press the button, ask the floor, my fellow Member, and then you can whisper. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Now, the rate of VAT on basic foods is 27 per cent the order of magnitude in families - NAV, National Tax and Customs Office - where about one and a half million people earn minimum wage or less - obviously provide moderate assistance. Therefore, the aid should not be in question. Nor can it be that, when they began to govern, they talked about the fact that there would be a beer mat for tax returns; between 50 and 60 new taxes were levied, not reduced taxes paid. One word as a hundred: the plan of action, the kind of initiative that is now appearing in the walls of Parliament, is, we believe, for the benefit of the multitude of people who live their lives in this country in dire circumstances. For this reason, as I said in my first sentence, I confirm in the last: because the Hungarian Socialist Party has also initiated several times within the walls of Parliament, now Jobbik has done this, we support this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-29-211	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr President Novak, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2016-03-29-212	Dear Parliament, I agree with Péter Szijjártó and I agree with András Tállai, János Fónagy and Miklós Soltesz on the question of VAT on basic foods, but I must immediately add that when, it seems, both the representatives of the MSZP and Fidesz are changing their position on this matter according to whether they are in government or opposition, because these Fidesz politicians submitted a bill to reduce VAT on basic foods in 2009, one year before they were introduced into government. We can also read in the explanatory statement that: Fidesz and KDNP are on the people's side and on the side of the tax reduction. They wrote it wrong, let's say, but it's a bigger problem that they've forgotten about it when they're on the government. They also forgot the argument, which can be found on the Fidesz website, that Péter Szijjártó put it this way: "The government creaked that it could not be resolved that there were non-essential foods. Now, it is so in the twelve countries of the European Union. 'It seems to be forgotten,' said Peter Szijjártó, going on the steering wheel. I would remind him, of course, of the luxury pool tax he proposed: when he bought himself a luxury pool, of course, this tax is no longer intended to be introduced by government. But we also need to remind the MSZP that this proposal was rejected when their word mattered when they were on the government. It does not matter what they say now, because there is not much credibility in the opposition anyway, although I was happy to take that new turn, so I congratulate you very much now that you have now said, literally repeating the better text, that you are not looking at who is submitting the proposal, but what is in the proposal. I am very pleased with this change, because earlier the MSZP was very proud to vote for nothing tabled by the better Members. So I am pleased with this change, and I am truly pleased that I am also very pleased with the change that you are now in favour of reducing VAT, even if you have not done so in the government. Of course, I'm also glad that they're no longer in government. However, turning to the ruling parties, I would like to ask you to face up to your earlier promise, you cannot be so discredited and unintelligible in politics, even if, of course, the institution of recall is not yet alive. Therefore, because of such a omission, unfortunately [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] They cannot be called back by their own voters, even though they deserve to be voted down tomorrow. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-29-213	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm going to ask if there's anyone else who wants to speak on behalf of the factions. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. I will ask your rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Yes, I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go.
u2016-03-29-214	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to remind you that in the Jobbik package, we have also submitted a document aimed at reducing the VAT content of articles needed to raise children, as well as a proposal for fish, poultry and other articles, especially, in order to ensure that if government openness is at least partial, Hungarian people can benefit from at least one part of the territory, as it is visible that it is only a Jobbik government that can implement a VAT reduction strategy at package level and not fully, with such a braked foam. By braked foaming, I mean otherwise not in an underestimable way, because only one or two meat varieties and certain components have this government made progress. I have to say, we see that if the budget is more favourable, then the government is trying to do so, but it usually chooses the wrong target and is doing these experiments very badly. The reduction in personal income tax should not, however, be justified by the fact that it is a reduction, and we should not be against it: what is good for Hungary is welcome. But we also see that the reduction of 1 percent of personal income tax rates is differentiated in such a way that it is good for an average employee to reach a thousand forints, while a secretary of state or minister can increase the monthly salary of up to 10,000 forints; this model is not necessarily fair. At the same time, we see that, in terms of basic food, VAT concessions for basic consumer goods, we could have a similar impact on all social groups in need, and this assistance cannot be put off in our position. It will also lead to huge losses if we continue to introduce this system for two more years, until the elections. Jobbik therefore calls not only on the Government of Hungary, but also on all thinking, reasonable political parties to contribute to the reduction of VAT for both basic foods and later for child raising articles and all strategic commodities for the benefit of each Hungarian family. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-29-215	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the proposal to commemorate the 225th anniversary of the birth of István Széchenyi Count and the discussion of the summarised amendment follow. H/9446 submitted by MEPs János Lázár, L. Simon László, Mónika Dunai, Gergely Gulyás fideszes and Mátyás Firtl and László Szászfalvi KDNP. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman László Kucsák, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2016-03-29-216	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed H/9446 on 26 March 2016. István Széchenyi's proposal for a decision to commemorate the 225th anniversary of the birth of Count István Széchenyi, which was submitted by the committee with 30 votes in favour and a unanimous amendment and a summary report. The summarised amendment contains the motion for language fitness of the Committee on National Inclusion and points 4 thereof are further clarified by the Legislative Committee. As one of my fellow Members pointed out at the committee meeting, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences was born at the lower table meeting of the Reform Country Assembly convened by Ferenc I on 3 November 1825, which became the most important institution of Hungarian science and art and the care of the Hungarian language in the coming decades, and the Hungarian Society of Science was the result of the generous offer of Count István Széchenyi's income for one year. That is why I think it is important to honor his memory with the utmost caution, grammatically and formally, by an impeccable parliamentary decision. I ask for the support of the proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-29-217	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Minister János Lázár, who wishes to speak on behalf of the authors. I would like to inform the Minister that he has ten minutes to answer in those ten minutes. I give you the floor, Minister.
u2016-03-29-218	Thank you very much. First of all, in compliance with my duty on the point of order: of course, the Committee's comments are accepted by the proposers and thanked Parliament for the attention and support it deserved. First of all, however, I take the opportunity to warn my fellow Members about the challenges of the present day, with the words of István Széchenyi in Napló: "I am touched by their ignorance; I would like to help them with my life and with my blood; I would share their fate and bear it." But they are often horrified and outraged by their unjust blindness, their pride, and their presumptuousness! Where will my ashes rest, I often ask myself, in my country or in a stranger? In other lands, a man who serves his country is an honest man. We have a hero or a saint. If other nations have more treasure, let us have more morals and patriotic love. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[17 .30]] Ladies and gentlemen, In the spirit of these few lines, I would like to draw your attention to the importance of national memory and memory, my fellow politicians, public opponents and fellow fighters. László Németh writes that the tragedy of humanity and the great tragedy of history are forgetting. The personal human tragedy and the great tragedy of history is that when a nation is forgotten, or mankind is characterized by memory and memory falling out of the balance of human thinking, and memory wears away. Therefore, I think that memory is a part of culture, and even a life force, and that we, a nation that has suffered a great deal in Central Europe, have a special responsibility to remember, to remind and to integrate memory into everyday culture. That is why we thought to my fellow Member that, after memory inspires us, gives us strength, confronts us with the present and the future, we recommend to the Parliament that we remember it as it approaches the 225th year of István Széchenyi's birth. In this spirit, I would like to draw attention to two things from the oeuvre, which I believe to my fellow Members to be a warning. First of all, if I may, I would like to talk about the fact that human culture is full of rediscovery, and it would be an important task and responsibility for the Hungarian political department, regardless of party standing, to rediscover Széchenyi's oeuvre, and let me warn you about the importance of ethics and language, the importance of ethos and rhetoric. Our word ethics comes from the word ethos, the word morality, and is related to human quality and human character. A person of character is straight, open, honest, can be given his word and his word is worth much more than writing, so we can talk about credibility. Today, we live in a world where even writing is not respected, let alone authentic words or handshakes or words. One more thing that is related to spiritual values, to the length of time, is basically the talent that you get, and that applies to those who are elected by people, and the important questions of their lives are given to them, given to them with confidence. Széchenyi is one of those who received a great deal from God, the Creator, and he wanted to use it for creation. Those who say Széchenyi is the 19th are right. The soul of the Hungarians of the century, Kossuth is his heart, and Ferenc Deák is his brain, because all three of them said that the most important thing is creation, the creative power, which the Good God implanted in man depending on the gift or ability, and the most important thing is the use of this creative power, if you are a teacher, if you are an athlete, a trainer or just a professional, professional worker or a farmer. And here I would recommend to you a poem by Daniel Berzsenyi. It is well known that Dániel Berzsenyi was the favourite poet of István Széchenyi and writes in his great national ode entitled "The Hungarians," in his pre-image of the Anthem of Kölcsey: life and death are in the power of the language that one loves, eating the fruit of it. Indeed, if the issue of ethos, morality, character and credibility, which is one of the most important issues in Széchenyi's oeuvre, is linked to the responsibility of rhetoric, then we ourselves, legislators, legislators, executives, stand here on the trust of people, we know exactly how much language can be used. You can use it for the wrong thing, you can lie with it, you can mislead it, you can manipulate it, you can influence people. And it is possible to use language for good things, authentic things, for example, most importantly, to speak the truth and to recognize the truth, or to sincerely clash opinions and to make meaningful debates and arguments. It may not be a coincidence that I draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that István Széchenyi has given his most important work the word "István Széchenyi" which is misleading in a rhetorical sense, since it does not relate primarily to bank loans and not to contemporary economic relations, but to the question of credibility. Credit is a question of credibility, which shows how Ethos, Ethics, Character, Morality and Authenticity are linked to the political language and how Széchenyi communicates in a political sense and draws moral standards for all politicians' contemporary and successors. It also means commitment and value choice, which I believe is even more important than freedom of action, because freedom does mean that we can do good and bad, but how we practice this, how we can do good or bad, how we live with freedom is basically a moral issue. Also, Berzhenyi:, So the support of every country, its basestone / The pure morals, which if it were to be vexed: / Rome is falling down, and you are turned into a yoke. •There was no accident that this verse and Daniel Berzhenyi were the favorite poet of Széchenyi, considering that the connection between ethos and language was clearly shown. László Németh writes: between 1850 and 1880 Hungarians aged not thirty years, but three centuries. He grew older - more complicated and more evil. He implemented Széchenyi's reforms and wiped out Széchenyi's spirit. The reason why Széchenyi's spirit is very important to us today is because it is not enough to implement reforms, it is not enough to achieve prosperity, it is not enough to make progress; we cannot give up the political morality that we should or should represent, because politics and history are wrong if they think that the science of the present is: the past, the present and the science of the future at the same time. In recalling Széchenyi's memory, I ask you to maintain credibility and act in the spirit of ethics and ethos every day. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-29-219	Thank you, Minister. I would like to inform the Minister that you have three minutes to say the closing word. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to speak. [[For signal:]] Yes, I give the floor to Secretary Peter Hoppál. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-29-220	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, As I explained to the House at the beginning of the general debate, the government does not mind, of course, the 225-year anniversary of the Jubilee, since the Government of Hungary has already paid a government decision before the 225th anniversary of the birth of Count István Széchenyi, and in this connection we are already paying tribute to the renovation of previously listed buildings, objects and national programmes to commemorate the greatness of our nation. It is very important to point out that the support of Parliament as a whole, which can contribute to the creation of a new unity in Széchenyi, is the motion of our independent representatives, János Lázár, L. Simon László and Mátyás Firtl, which gives us the opportunity to take stock of our national values and the reform and the rethink of the idea of 48-49. In this connection, not only government measures and government decisions are needed, but indeed the creation of a socialized programme, so we are pleased that the parliamentary proposal also proposes that local communities try to join, cooperate in trying to commemorate Count István Széchenyi's life's work and the values he represents. I think it is very important to highlight what Minister Lazarus has just emphasised that he is referring to an era in which he is now under the 21st century. Hungarian political trend of the century, which are reference points, if you like, basic stones, fundamentals. In this sense, we all have to measure ourselves, today's political forces above the values they represented at the time, and here, obviously, the value they have already expressed has been taken into account as a daily fee for us, the posterity of Széchenyi and its age. All in all, in response to questions which should be preceded by a symbolic decision and also identified in the Commission debate, thanking the authors for their proposal, I respectfully report that the government naturally supports the motion of independent representatives. Allow me to bring some of the lines of Berzsenyi mentioned and quoted here in closing, when he wrote in his poem "The Hungarians" and in his poem "The Hungarians," which is also timely for the days of our time, that "Forr" is the sad sea of the world, O Hungarian! /Adaz Erynnis's soul reigns, and prepares the inhabitants of the earth for an angry battle. /................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Wake up your sleeping national soul. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm This is what awaits us today, and this is what Berzsenyi has inherited, and this is what István Széchenyi calls us from 225 years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-29-221	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated National Assembly Committee. Dear Parliament, Representatives will now take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of two-minute speeches during the debate. [[17.40]] Mr László Kiss, Member of the MSZP Group, announced his intention to speak in writing. I give you the floor.
u2016-03-29-222	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I am very pleased that this debate is taking place on another level, or this discussion about the bill - because there is really not much debate in the proposal itself - is also taking place on another level. I must say and thank my fellow Member, Kucsák, in particular, for quoting me at the committee meeting, that I found the situation a little unworthy, while Széchenyi was sacrificing a significant part of his private assets to enable the Hungarian language to improve, while a significant amount of grammatical clarification had to be made during the proposal put forward by the authors. I really agree with everyone who thinks that this is not a good thing. In particular, it is unfortunate to do so, but let it be a good proposal, because it is good if grammatically it is okay, if it is all right in terms of content. Of course, it is possible to talk about what is a lesson for Széchenyi, and I am very pleased that it is because it is a politician who we can take an example from. He's the one you can tell by all means that he's made a contribution out of his own property, not his own property. It can also be said that when he began his political career, he certainly had more assets than when he finished his political career. These are certainly two important things to mention about Széchenyi. If we look at the projects, the practical works that this nation owes to Széchenyi, then we can see that these were all works of art, initiatives where, although it could have done so in favour of a small group of businesses, it did not do so, but, for example, at the Chain Bridge, it is excellent that it opened the development itself for the benefit of the public. There is a wonderful man, a wonderful politician in front of us, and I think it is very right that the authors brought us here to this House to commemorate him, because he deserves this a thousand, a hundred thousand times, ten thousand times. We are talking about one of the finest figures of the Hungarian nation. It is very important that we can really read from Széchenyi's diary a number of advice that still endures the test of time. This is true despite the fact that we know that Antal Tasner, the secretary of Széchenyi who worships Széchenyi, has thoroughly filtered this diary, so that the secretary who is extremely loyal to Széchenyi can publish a material worthy of Széchenyi's legacy. It is very important, however, to remember the lines quoted by Minister, also around 1825, where, on vacation in Switzerland, Széchenyi meditates on the fact that it is very, very important that the parliamentary assembly of popular representatives be implemented and not leave political representation to the nobility, because political representation in the nobility is as if the sheep decide to leave themselves to the wolves. And obviously Széchenyi himself warned the people against it. I think it is not a question of the Socialist Party's support for this proposal, together with the amendments. In most of these, we have also been constructive in the Committee on National Inclusion, and we can support this, but let me also say here my criticism or comment, which, by the way, happens not only on my part of the committee, but also on the part of my fellow opposition Members, that it is important and appropriate that we be able to identify national goals that everyone in this country may consider to be of common value, so let us strive to make these proposals together, because we share our common goals and stand together for them. I think it would be a celebration of democracy if we had as many opportunities as possible. Obviously, it is also a bit of a celebration that if we could talk about such a proposal now, it would be an even bigger holiday if we could have done it together. Thank you for listening, the Socialist Party supports the proposal.
u2016-03-29-223	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Firtl Mátyás, from the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2016-03-29-224	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In the 225th year of the birth of István Széchenyi, the Hungarian creator of modern civil Hungary, the largest Hungarian, with the parliamentary decision before us, draws attention to his age-forming ideas, his oeuvre, his activity and the active patriotism that is the driving force of all this. We Sopron County are particularly proud of the fact that István Széchenyi spent the decisive years of his life in Cenken and Sopron. Therefore, as a Member of Parliament in the region, I consider it important to quote my former predecessor, József Östör, Parliamentary Representative of the county of Sopron, who, as a Széchenyi-researcher, writes in his Széchenyi és várgyegyénye (Széchenyi és Vártyegyénye):. The divine providence divided our greats in various parts of Hungary, so we have the largest Hungarian of Sopron County for a thousand years, Count István Széchenyi. We can say that István Széchenyi belongs to the whole country, but we of Sopron County are making a strange contribution to it. If we were living in Christendom's heroic age, I think he would have chosen her as the patron of Sopron County. '"It's riveting," he writes. As the largest Hungarian of a thousand years, István Széchenyi is the largest Hungarian of all Hungarians who started from Nagycenk, but extended the service of the common good to the whole nation. Therefore, it is important to make the rest of the Széchenyi heritage a national pilgrim's place with other locations, the importance of which was created by the commitment and support of the current Hungarian government. Thanks to the government's support, this year we can celebrate a jubilee year together with the nation as a whole, in which the restoration of Széchenyi heritage, Széchenyi memorial sites and spirituality is ongoing. For all these reasons, I would like to thank the Government of Hungary once again on behalf of the people living in the region and all well-meaning Hungarian patriots for giving all the support to become a national pilgrim place worthy of Széchenyi's spirituality, a cult place to find and join each other, to which every Hungarian can go in person at least once in his life. Ladies and gentlemen, The attention to the Széchenyi heritage makes the fact that castle renovations are not for themselves clear again and again. Restoring heritage means not only saving stones, walls, furniture, but also reviving and working forces that, building on the past and values of our nation, create the development and completion of our future. Therefore, the restoration of monuments is, in addition to saving and presenting values, a literal development of the future. An example of this is the restoration of the Esterházy castle, the restoration of the Széchenyi heritage is carried out by the Eszterháza Centre, as its diverse system of relations and activities extend far beyond the care of cultural heritage, its radiation, which is a tourist, economic revival, land development, education and all other areas carries the guarantee of the success of further regional developments, worthy of Széchenyi's ideas. Dear House, Next week, April 8th, on the anniversary of Széchenyi's death, we will commemorate Nagycenk; where the inscription of Széchenyi's full figure statue has become the word of the famous quote:.Hungary was not, but will be. This will be the future of Széchenyi's vision in 1830, in which he believes and believes, in fact Széchenyi's command to himself is an invitation to us. The task given by Széchenyi in the present is our duty and duty. The original quote is:. Many people think it was Hungary; I would like to believe that there will be. From 1830, from the Credit. [[17.50]] Széchenyi believed in the Hungarian future, i.e. believed in us. Let us therefore be worthy of this trust, and let us do our job, all our work, to the benefit of Hungary. Széchenyi, it's up to us, we want it! Ladies and gentlemen, As in the general debate, I ask the factions to unanimously support the parliamentary resolution on the Count Széchenyi. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-03-29-225	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to MEP Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-29-226	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! I am very pleased that the general debate was not repeated when Secretary of State L. Simon virtually paralleled the government's work with Széchenyi's work, and therefore became a rather harsh political debate, which should not have happened otherwise, because it is a proposal supported by the entire Parliament. Of course, Jobbik will continue to support it. I see that you are very well prepared for this debate, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, next time you want to have two general debates on a particular bill, you do not have to put a lot of spelling errors in the original proposal, so that we can talk again about this proposal within the walls of the House because of an amendment. I think there is a simpler and more elegant way to do this. Of course, as I said, we support both the amendment and the proposal. Jobbik is also committed to keeping the Széchenyi Memorial Year properly and to finally renovating the related building complex in Nagycen. We are partners in this, and we trust that many of these proposals will be presented to this House. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-29-227	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to speak in the given time frame. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I will ask Minister John Lazarus if he wishes to respond to what he has said. [[János Lázár: No, thank you.]] No. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission reports submitted to the Government of Hungary and the Government of Mongolia on the publication of the Agreement on the visa waiver for nationals of diplomatic and service/official passports and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. The government referral is T/9298. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-03-29-228	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/9298 on 24 March 2016. The draft law on the publication of an agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Mongolia on the visa waiver of their nationals holding diplomatic and service passports, and the Committee for that purpose shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 46 of the Rules of Procedure. Having regard to Article 27 of the Rules of Procedure, the European Parliament adopted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 27 votes in favour, one against and four abstentions. The draft amending proposal contains a single technical amendment to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which contains technical clarification. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill helps to strengthen relations between the two countries by exempting travellers from the time-consuming procedure for obtaining visas for a longer period than before, so we are getting closer and closer to developing the Hungarian-Mongol relationship system. In view of this, I ask you to support the bill with your votes. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-29-229	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr István Ájgyártó State Secretary if he wishes to speak on behalf of the rapporteur.
u2016-03-29-230	Thank you, Mr. President. At the end of the debate, I would like to make use of the opportunity to speak.
u2016-03-29-231	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The designated Committee on Foreign Affairs did not draft a rapporteur. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of two-minute speeches during the debate. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] Dear Parliament, As no one has made a statement on the part of the political groups, the debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to state his position. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-29-232	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would like to thank the Committee on Foreign Affairs for its work. The amendment is supported by the government. As this really brings the two countries closer together, speeding up and making the administration less complicated, I would ask you to support the proposal in the vote tomorrow as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-29-233	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2001 XLVI on consular protection. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/8838. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-29-234	Thank you again for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby inform the National Assembly that the Legislative Committee discussed T/8838 on 24 March 2016. Act No XLVI of 2001 on consular protection. a bill amending the law and, in this context, Article 46 of the Rules of the House. It adopted a proposal for amendment and a summary report, with 28 votes in favour and a unanimous decision. The amended amendment adopted contains a six-point technical amendment to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which recommends the correct language and legal adjustments necessary to ensure the coherence of the text and to maintain it, as well as the 61/2009 on the drafting of legislation. IRM Regulation and the 2010 CXXX on legislation to comply with the law. With the adoption of the bill, there will be an increase in the efficiency of the consular service and simplification of procedures, and I therefore call on this House to support the proposal with its votes tomorrow. Thank you for your attention, Mr. President.
u2016-03-29-235	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr István Arrowmaker, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak on behalf of the rapporteur. You have the floor.
u2016-03-29-236	Mr President, I would also like to speak at the end of the debate.
u2016-03-29-237	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The designated Committee on Foreign Affairs did not draft a rapporteur. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Mr Tamás Turgyán Armenian ethnic advocate, rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary for the debate, within a six-minute time frame. Here you go, Mr. Speaker.
u2016-03-29-238	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary shall be composed of T/8838. Act No XLVI of 2001 on consular protection. The debate on the proposal to amend law was closely monitored. One of the reasons for this is the increased involvement of domestic nationalities with dual identities in many cases, and the other factor is the emphasis on the European role of our country and its role in international relations in the work of our committee. I would like to point out that we consider this proposal to be an important legislative step, a serious legislative harmonisation instrument, and we fully support it. Nationalities in Hungary have an elemental interest in ensuring that the protection of the interests of Hungarian citizens, the modernisation of foreign affairs administration, is carried out in a professional manner in accordance with our international obligations and interests. [[18.00]] This amendment proposal fully meets this requirement. Among the many elements of the proposal, I would like to highlight the increasingly dynamic system of honorary consular institutions for consular protection, which, as a result of the strategic and organisational efforts of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, has regained prestige in order to improve the quality of life of our countrymen and guarantee legal certainty. The social security. consular networks, as well as an important diplomatic framework in the fields of civil interest and national representation, we parliamentary advocates want to make greater use of it in the future. Dear Parliament, Clarification of consular duties, the possibility of consular protection within the EU means new dimensions and requires clear regulation. The proposal and its technical amendments submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs contribute substantially to the strengthening of the interests of Hungarian citizens. Thus, the proposal is supported unanimously by the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities, and the Committee has not issued a minority opinion. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2016-03-29-239	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. In writing, he predicted his intention to speak, Mrs Márta Demeter, MSZP Group. I give you the floor.
u2016-03-29-240	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Basically, the amendment before us is aimed at simplifying the legal bases, and there was a Council Directive 2015 which is also intended to be transposed into the Hungarian legal order. It is basically technical, and, as the speakers before me have said, the committee itself has made a technical amendment, which, I think, is absolutely eligible. We have raised our questions about the proposal in the general debate itself, and I think we have received fundamentally satisfactory answers, so the MSZP Group will support the adoption of the proposal. Thank you very much. [[László Kiss and Dr. István Józsa applaud.]]
u2016-03-29-241	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to speak on behalf of the factions in the given time frame. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to the Secretary of State István Archígyártó to give the answer to what was said in the debate.
u2016-03-29-242	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thanks to the work and support of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Nationality, I would like to say that all the amendments, as has been said here, are of a technical nature, supported by the government. I ask that the Parliament also support the proposal in the final vote. Thank you.
u2016-03-29-243	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the declaration of the Year 2017 as the Memorial Year of János Arany follow up and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. L. Simon László, Németh Szilárd István, Halász János, Gulyás Gergely, Fidesz, and Földi László, KDNP, submitted by representatives H/8343. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Mr László Kucsák, rapporteur of the committee, within a maximum time frame of 8 minutes. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-29-244	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I inform the National Assembly that the Legislative Committee discussed H/8343 on 24 March 2016. The Commission submitted a proposal for a decision declaring the year 2017 to be the Memorial Year of János Arany, with 26 amendments and a summary report with three abstentions, i.e. no votes against. The summarised amendment proposed by the Committee on Culture and the Committee on National Inclusion It contains a proposal, as specified by the Legislative Committee, on a point. I would also like to draw attention here to the fact that János Arany was born in Nagyszalonta, which is now part of the territory of Romania. His life and work are not only exemplary for the people living in the mother country, but also for the Hungarians from abroad, so I consider it important to organize events and commemorations beyond our borders and to deliver educational material that can contribute to the wider dissemination of his activities and worthy commemorations. If you'll allow me, by raising a quote from the poet here, in one of his most famous works, the 12th Toldi, he says of the protagonist, that his glorious reputation-name has been preserved forever. I trust that these programs, cultural materials and events will contribute not only to the memory and reputation of Toldi, but also to the author, János Arany. Thank you for listening and for supporting the proposal. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-29-245	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The minority opinion will now be presented within a 7-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi. Here you go.
u2016-03-29-246	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. We are in a rather strange situation because we are giving a minority opinion, but we want to give a minority opinion on the amendments. After all, the Movement for Jobbik Hungary also welcomed this initiative. János Arany is one of our greatest poets, and we are pleased that such an initiative has been brought before the House. That is why we support this initiative. We didn't think we had to give a minority opinion here anyway, but we have to, because at the Legislative Committee meeting, there was a facial toaster that we didn't even think we had to speak here about this resolution proposal at all. In particular, there were proposals for amendments to the proposal for a decision. One of the amendments was the amendment proposal of the Committee on National Inclusion, which would have defined point 2 as follows: The Parliament supports and urges the organisation of events, commemorations and educational materials related to the work of János Arany, both in the mother country and among the Hungarians of the disengaged parts of the country and of the diaspora, which contribute to a worthy commemoration. When it came to voting on this, we debated it, then the Fidesz MEPs and the representative of the government said that they did not support this amendment, because they did not say that they had been disconnected. What do you mean, you don't have to say they're disconnected parts of the country? It's a fact. It wasn't fair to say that I and II. The only country responsible for World War II was Hungary, and the only country that still moans the consequences of this is Hungary. These areas have been disconnected. János Arany was born at the Grand Palace. That was Hungary. These areas have been disconnected. And you're referring to Pollipotentiary? We didn't say that, but we could have said that we could have said that we were temporarily occupied. Because even that would be true. But no! You said you wouldn't accept the fact that you're part of the country. It is no wonder that a government that claims to be national - and I am sorry to bring this here, but it also shows how much you care about our Hungarian brothers living across the border, how they only deal with them by the way that their vote is needed, and then they don't really want to deal with them in action - you tolerate it as a national government so that the Hungarian Football Federation can say at the Hungarian-Croatian match that you can't bring them into the stadium, only national flags that are official. What does that mean? To allow the Hungarian Football Federation to ban the Szekler flag from the stadium in Hungary. In a situation where our Szekler brothers are fighting for autonomy, the use of the Szekler flag is prohibited in Hungary. Is this the right of law in Hungary today? Gentlemen, you should be ashamed of yourselves. And if you were quoting Toldi, Congressman Kucsák, then I think that if Miklós Toldi were here now, he would surely throw that millstone at you. I'm sure he'd throw that millstone at you, because you're just saying you can't talk about it, you can't talk about Trianon. [[18.10]] Let's not talk about Trianon, then, because with the expression "tied parts of the country," let's not insult the people who have abducted most of our country. Should we not offend these countries? Do you think that's appropriate? However, since we find this outrageous, we find it outrageous what happened at the Legislative Committee's meeting on this amendment - and I stress once again that we are not talking about a better proposal for an amendment, but about the proposal of the Committee on National Inclusion, which you have not adopted, to my mind this is a shame - we are nevertheless pleased that such a proposal for a resolution is here before the Parliament. We believe that this proposal for a decision would have looked much better with this second point, where the parts of the country that were disconnected would have been included in the proposal. Nevertheless, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary supports the resolution proposal. And you should look inside and decide what to do and what to do with patriotism. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-03-29-247	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone on behalf of the authors wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Congressman László Földi, KDNP. Here you go.
u2016-03-29-248	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Thank you for the support of the factions on behalf of the authors, and I trust that 2017 will be the year of János Arany, and we can show that we can show the great figure of János Arany, the literary work, the language work that János Arany did. This is also particularly important to me because in my constituency today it is the city of Nagykőrös where János Arany was a high school teacher for several years. Nagykőrös is very proud of János Arany, and I trust that next year we can organize events in Nagykőrös that are truly worthy of this poetic genius. Nagykőrös is a sister town of Nagyszalonta, the home town of János Arany, and this link between the two settlements has become more muscular and stronger over the last 25 years, and we hope that 2017 will further strengthen this relationship between Nagykőrös and Nagyszalonta. I call on my fellow Members to support the draft single proposal in the vote. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-03-29-249	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform the congressman that you have eight minutes and 30 seconds to say the closing word. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Péter Hoppál wishes to speak. I'll give you the floor in a 10-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-03-29-250	Thank you very much. Mr President, I don't want to exhaust the time interval. At the beginning of the general debate, I have already informed the Honourable Parliament of the position of the government. It is clear that not only the cultural government, but the entire government is the great birthplace of our country, at the time of reform, and then at the 19th century. Hungarian literature of the century wishes to salute the outstanding figure of science organization at a high level. It is not just the government, not just the parliamentary parties, but also the whole society's task to try to be worthy of János Arany and to the extent appropriate to his value and performance in 2017. The whole national cultural institution system will obviously fit into this series of programmes. We would like the entire Hungarian school network, which is reserved for the school system, the state, the local government, the church and the foundation, to tax the memory and the work of János Arany in the commemorative year. Obviously, the programme to be socialised, which was also the goal of the author's intention and the government's preparatory committee for the Memorial Year, we would like this socialization program to send the message of János Arany to all corners of the country, and indeed, as we have put it, for the entire Carpathian Basin and the Hungarians living in the diaspora, it could become a series of programmes that touched everyone. That is why it is important that the Parliament also declares that we can declare 2017 as the anniversary of János Arany, in support of the motion of its own representatives. In addition to supporting statements, allow me to make a small comment on the recent outburst of our fellow Member, György Szilágyi. Obviously, I must refuse on behalf of the government, Congressman, what you said. So the statement that you said that the government needed to vote among Hungarians across the border and that after that it no longer deals with Hungarians across the border, and that you concluded that the term "disconnected areas" could be used in an amendment, whether the majority of the government supports it or not - I think that I should reject your sluggishness, temperament and only your statement of opposition populist position. If you try to think a little bit responsibly about Hungary and the Hungarian nation as a whole, you should know that you can do nothing to harm the Hungarians across the border, only if you are from here, from the Budapest capital, and with your heat you are angry with our brothers, our blood, the majority nations there. That's what I'd protect you from, although I can see that you don't have any sensitivity to that. However, politics, my honourable fellow Member, you know very well that in the elections, it wins its contents in support of the people. And I would like to remind you that with the arrogance you just attacked the government - read back in the minutes - you did not obtain support for the votes of Hungarians across the border in 2014, when this was possible, as, if I remember correctly, 96 percent of Hungarian votes across the border were received by Fidesz-KDNP. So I think it commands humility for all of us and moderation for you. If you hold yourself to this, you can become more worthy of the events of 2017, because János Arany did not convey what you have just tried to say here. So if, in this spirit, we succeed in supporting the authorial intention from both sides of Parliament, then a worthy and truly full Hungarian programme series can be created. Of course, the government supports all good intentions. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-03-29-251	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the designated Cultural Committee has not presented a rapporteur. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. Mr László Kiss, MSZP Group, has applied in writing for a speech. I give you the floor.
u2016-03-29-252	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I really didn't want to start with this, but I was actually a little shocked by what happened in the Legislative Committee, because I had the opportunity to sit through the meetings of both committees, and I didn't expect such a debate to take place in the Legislative Committee myself. I thought that this would be a fully uniform treatment, a proposal supported by everyone, which is ahead of us. I do not want to dwell too long on this issue, but it is still about the fact that, at the moment, these areas are also included in the Hungarian history books, as well as in the atlas, under the name of separated parts of the country. I do not think that this is of such importance on this agenda, but it is true that these areas have actually been disconnected, so it is a pity to deny it, because it is a fact. But to talk about the proposal, which, by the way, is in front of us, I think it is right that there are such proposals. I would also say here that it would be better, of course, if we found a national consensus where it is, because it is not so good that we will not find it where it is. János Arany deserves this much, but despite this, the MSZP can support this proposal that they did not want to find the national consensus here either, even though it would have been possible. János Arany was one of the most modest figures in Hungarian literature and history, who was famous for not pushing his own person forward, while he was also the Secretary General of the Academy of Sciences or the Director of the Kisfaludy Society, in addition to being one of our most brilliant literary creators. At almost all of the important events of the reform, we can find his role in public life, as well as as as a sidekick. He is also a figure of Hungarian literature and Hungarian history, who, by the way, would be one of the greats even if we only looked at certain segments of his activity. [[18.20]] But I think that just because his modesty is legendary, if you like it, it was well-known, the Hungarian state does not have to be so modest when we talk about the memory of János Arany. Even today, its name is preserved by public spaces and institutions, and it occupies a prominent position in the pantheon of our literature, but nevertheless I think that it deserves all the respect it can get, and I think that this is precisely why the Socialist Party and I can wholeheartedly support the presentation. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2016-03-29-253	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik Group, in a nine-minute timeframe. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-03-29-254	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I was glad, Mr. Secretary, that you stood up, and I thought you would answer me then why you would tolerate banning, say, the Szekler flag from certain places. Then you could have told me, Secretary of State, and I was waiting for you to tell me that you were also upset that the representatives of Fidesz were not willing to take the truth for granted, and that was the 14-fidesz stay that appeared in the vote at the TAB meeting. But Peter Hoppál spoke of humility. I think I've been humbled to begin with, since I didn't start by reading, say, a report, but I'll do it for you now. I would like to read a report here, and we are talking about the minutes of this House. President: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and My fellow Members have come to me from several sides to remember today the 70th anniversary of the tragic peace in Trianon with a one-minute silent standing. Please, my fellow Members, stand up. [[It's a one-minute silent setup. The representatives of Fidesz are pulling out.]] That was the humblest thing I didn't mention to you. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: When? What's the date of the report? What time's the quote?]] The fact that you are now in words, what you are now doing in words... that was Fidesz. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: When?]] That was Fidesz! It doesn't matter when it was Fidesz. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: But when?]] What you're doing and what you're saying and what you're doing right now, I'm telling you a sentence six years ago. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: 1992! 25 years ago! The president's ringing the bell.]] Don't look at what I'm saying, look at what I'm doing. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Steering!]] - said Viktor Orbán, your Prime Minister, who made you Secretary of State. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2016-03-29-255	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone wants to speak in the remaining time frame. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] The Member, as rapporteur, indicates that he does not wish to reply. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the Hungarian Day of Higher Education and the final amendment proposal follow up. The government referral is H/9285. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman László Kucsák, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2016-03-29-256	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed H/9285 on 24 March 2016. The Committee submitted a proposal for a decision on the Day of Hungarian Higher Education, and the Committee submitted a joint amendment and a summary report with 30 votes in favour. The summarised amendment only contains the legislative committee's motion for linguistic fitness, specifying the proposal of the Committee on Culture. In agreement with the government's initiative, i.e. that from 2017 on, the first day of September, 1 September, should be the day of Hungarian higher education, which is also the day of the foundation of the University of Pécs, please support the proposal. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-03-29-257	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr László Palkovics, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak on behalf of the rapporteur. [[Dr. László Palkovics: No, thank you.]] Mr Secretary of State has indicated that he wishes to speak later. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the designated Cultural Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute speech during the debate. Mr László Kiss, Member of the MSZP Group, announced his intention to speak in writing. I give you the floor.
u2016-03-29-258	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I think that there is no great debate here either, and all the parties have already supported the presentation at the previous stages of the debate. I have raised some concerns at an earlier stage of the debate, which concerned that it would be good that the noble goals that the rapporteur hopes that this day of higher education will actually be achieved. I still have a little scepticism about how these proposals serve such goals, but I think that is the biggest problem, by the way, because I'm sure it doesn't hurt. I would very much like to welcome the clarification of the proposal, which is about the fact that the proposal itself commemorates the establishment of the University of Pécs, this was a very important point and a very important amendment to the proposal, because the University of Pécs was a bit insane, which is not the same as the successor, of course, as the University of Pécs was founded earlier. It is very important that we also commemorate the significant scientific historical events of our Hungarian nation, because Pécs, as a cultural historical town, has entered the Hungarian history, and it is therefore right that the city of Pécs has such attributes, which it can celebrate, which is why the Hungarian Socialist Party supports the proposal. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2016-03-29-259	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Szabolcs Szabó has also announced his intention to speak in writing. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2016-03-29-260	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, When the general debate stage was here, I myself said that this was an absolutely eligible idea. Then I suggested a little groping on the text and a few ideas, so I suggested how to fill this celebration stream itself with real content. I am very pleased that, when we discussed this, the Committee on Culture was in favour of drafting the text, and then I was pleased that the Legislative Committee also accepted the amendment proposal of the Committee on Culture, and even made an additional clarification there, which we did not notice in the committee at the time that such a conflict of reason had developed a conflict of interest in the text. Therefore, the text itself can be fully supported, not to mention the initiative. By the way, I ran it through colleagues to see what they'd think about it and what they'd expect. They would have liked it or liked it very much if they had received some kind of greeting, either electronically or in a letter, as university instructors on such a higher education day. My former boss even noted that since he collects tickets, he is happy to accept it as a recommended delivery, but this is only part of the joke, so of course we will support this proposal.
u2016-03-29-261	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm going to ask you if there's anyone else who wants to speak on the remaining time frame. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr László Palkovics, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-03-29-262	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I would like to thank everyone for their support for agreeing on this issue, in the celebration of Hungarian higher education and in the day to come, and for everyone's support on this issue. I would also like to believe that this kind of agreement will remain on other issues of higher education. So thank you all again. The comments and suggestions on how to celebrate will certainly be considered, and we will find an appropriate way to do so. Thank you again. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-03-29-263	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws concerning the Erzsébet programme and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. The government referral is T/9636. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go. [[18.30]]
u2016-03-29-264	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/9636 on 24 March 2016. The Commission submitted a bill amending certain laws concerning the Elizabeth programme and submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 24 yes and 6 non-voting votes. The summarised amendment contains only the motion of the Welfare Committee for language and legal technical amendments. In order to continue the Erzsébet programme, I would like to ask you to support this proposal in order to facilitate the recreation of children in the Carpathian Basin. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. István Józsa applauds.]]
u2016-03-29-265	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Sebestyén Csító, who presents the minority opinion formulated in the designated Committee on Welfare. Here you go.
u2016-03-29-266	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. In addition to the technical amendments mentioned above, an amendment was tabled to the bill, which I submitted myself, and we discussed at the committee meeting. I said to my senses there that because of the tasks of a foundation, why should he still have to add to his property high - value real estate, naming the former pioneer camp in Zanka and Fonyód. In fact, I did not receive a substantive answer to my question from the representative of the Ministry at the committee meeting, and I was given the answer, which was also stated here in the general debate, that a fundamental law settles this issue, because for 15 years the beneficiary, the owner of the property for which he actually received the property. But what I'm saying is that with two valuable assets or assets like the former Zanka and Fonyód pioneer camp, 15 years is not much, 15 years can be solved by anyone, anyone can perform that activity, and then who knows what their fate will be. I also said at the committee meeting: even this year and last year, such interpellations with each other were the subject of immediate questions about what the socialists had done to Csillebérc, and I also drew the attention of the government: do not do the same in Pepita with Fonyod and Zánka. I think that this is unworthy, and I still think that these tasks can be carried out without the transfer of ownership, with honor and smoothness, and therefore do not squander public assets. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-29-267	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute speech during the debate. First, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, who made a written statement of her intention to speak. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-03-29-268	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, It is not clear that if the listed properties no longer belong to the Erzsébet Asset Manager, what will be the fate of the social holidays that will remain in the MNÜA's task. It is important to note that the source of the Erzsébet programme comes from the distribution of the Erzsébet voucher as one of the elements of the cafeteria system, which is interesting because the Prime Minister announced in the days that the current cafeteria system will cease to exist next year, so the whole program, therefore the meaning of this bill, will be called into question. It may also be that some properties are being rescinded in front of us right now. It is feared that the government will slowly pull the soil out of the system of social recreation, with the planned amendment and the conversion of the cafeteria system, bringing back the most needy. Since we do not see the real purpose of separating tasks and creating another fund, the Hungarian Socialist Party cannot support the bill. Let me tell you one thing, I'd like to share an experience with you. Last year, my children participated in Camp Elizabeth - not on a socially dependent basis, but on the cost - and I was shocked to note when they came home that I could say, Mr. Secretary, that they spent more on propaganda than on recreation itself. The way the past system is scolded in the walls of the House, and the children brought home a CD about the Elizabeth Camp, is called Elizabeth Song, if I remember correctly, I asked a written question about how much it cost, and they didn't really answer it. The children brought home hats, different journals, not even one kind, I'm telling you, this CD that they listened to there for several days, and it turns out to me that it was more important for you to spend more on propaganda per child than on social leave for the children themselves. So I think that this bill cannot be supported in any way. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-03-29-269	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Statement will be made by Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet, LMP Group. Here you go.
u2016-03-29-270	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The amendment proposals do not affect the substance of the bill, i.e. that the exclusive role of the Hungarian National Holiday Foundation in the implementation of the Erzsébet programme is terminated, the tasks related to child relief will be transferred to the Foundation for Children in the Carpathian Basin. But not only does this foundation have a significant role to play, it does not only include tasks related to the organisation of children's and youth camps, but also the ownership of children's resorts. The properties of Zánka and Fonyód will be transferred to the property of the Foundation, and in time all the properties that have been managed by the Erzsébet Asset Management Limited Liability Company will come to this fate. As a reason, the only thing in the proposal is that the organisation of children's and youth camps is within the scope of the functioning of a qualified and experienced legal person, and it is not clear what makes the Foundation for the organisation of children's camps across the border more suitable than the Hungarian National Holiday Foundation. The Foundation for Children in the Carpathian Basin has been operating since 2013, and has organized a few summer camps across the border since then. It is not clear why it is necessary for the property to be owned by this foundation, why the provision of former county-owned resorts and camps should be given in its entirety. With this, this property will be removed from the state estate, like the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank: in principle, it will remain public money, but the owner will actually do with it what he wants, the founder will not be able to take it back and use it for different purposes. The list of members of the board is also interesting. President István Gábor Vagács, former Head of Department of the Ministry of National Economy and Vice-President Ágnes Deutsch-Für Sarolta, Tamás Deutsch's second wife, daughter of former Minister Lajos Für, and members include Szilvia Sunyovszky, the MMA president's wife György Fekete. This proposal only adds to the gloom around the Elisabeth Empire. The story began with the government taking away the resorts owned by the county authorities in 2012 and then taking them into the Erzsébet programme. Even though the children's camps had worked well for decades, they also took this away from the locals. Since then, this wealth has been treated in a completely opaque way, and there have been many complaints about public-organised youth and children's camps. Not to mention that although the government was most proud of the unique way of operating the Elizabeth programme without involving state resources, it cannot be said now, for the second year that the programme can only operate with budgetary support, we are spending 4.4 billion this year, and this proposal clearly states that child relief will continue to work entirely through state aid. Of course, the use of public money will not have any perspective on taxpayers, just as it has never been before. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-03-29-271	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Mr Sebestyén, Member of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2016-03-29-272	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. It is also significant that we are already at the fourth item on the agenda for the negotiation of the Commission reports, and each of them raises the issue of stylistic, Kofidicating or other language-placed problems in the original law, and the commission or the Legislative Committee had to submit an amendment to that effect. [[18.40]] Looks like they were in a hurry for something. This seems to me to me to be the law on the Elizabeth Programme that they were very hasty about something. By the way, I think we can name the Fidesz-KDNP government as the government of optimism under the law, because as a good optimist, he's trying to make the best of the bad situation, so if you're going to...
u2016-03-29-273	Congressman, your mic fell off, so please fix it. Thank you.
u2016-03-29-274	Thank you very much. So we could call it the government of optimism, because he's trying to make the best of the worst. The European Court of Justice has condemned Hungary because of the cafeteria system, that if this has already happened, we will use the situation for a small transfer of state assets, and a little bit of a ban on the system of civil society organisations, foundations and various KFTs in Hungary. For me, as I said in the presentation of the Commission's minority opinion, it is not a guarantee that this activity will have to be carried out for 15 years at the handover of two of these valuable assets, the Zanka and Fonyód pioneer camps. Nor is it a guarantee to me that the Foundation for Children in the Carpathian Basin is now under the Agota Foundation at some level and is in his hands, as the State Secretary said in the general debate. It is not a guarantee, because, as we see now, how companies, foundations and NGOs surrounding the Erzsébet programme can change from month to month, day to day, in the same way, in 15 years, directly, directly, on some level, I don't know, at which level the ownership background of the foundation belonging to the Szeged-Chanad Bishopship, its supervisory bodies or whatever can change in 15 years. There's no guarantee he won't change. Going to a foundation doesn't mean it's going to be church property for me. However, even as a believing Catholic, I can say that for two of these high-value state-owned properties, this does not justify changing the law or circumstances so as not to remain state-owned. I believe that there is no obstacle to it, as well as its ability to carry on its activities smoothly, its activities in this direction by any foundation or any civil society organisation, even if it is not owned by it, but it is still owned by the state by these two high value real estates. I'll tell you again what I've said many times. By the way, even at the beginning of this year and at the end of last year, the socialists were rightly insulted by what had happened to Csillebérc. Whatever foundation the former pioneer camp in Fonyód and Zánka is now being played for, do not do in Pepita what the socialists have done with Cillebérc! Listen to your conscience. By the way, I asked for a separate vote on my amendment, asking the representatives of Fidesz and KDNP with a drop of conscience to vote in favour of my amendment and not to transfer these two former pioneer camps to non-state ownership. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-03-29-275	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I will ask Mr László Palkovics, Secretary of State, if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Mr. Secretary of State has ten minutes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-03-29-276	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you for your comments. I am pleased that, compared to the issues raised and raised in the general debate, we have been able to clarify a number of things since then who owns the forest and others. That means we've made progress. I would like to remind you that this is the answer to the infringement procedure of the European Court of Justice in connection with the regulation of extra-wage allowances in an emergency situation. I think that our children should receive this, as we do, who still remember, that the operation of such a system is certainly long-term, so that was the reason, and we want to lay the foundations for that. The fact that a foundation with decades of experience in the field of recreation is an important practice of the Saint Augusta Child Protection Service, I believe, is a guarantee that this will not only work for a year or two but well over 15 years. In this sense, I believe that the conditions created by the cardinal law, i.e. if anything hinders this type of operation in relation to the management of the property, whether the activity changes, clearly regulates what will happen to these properties, what can happen. Here you can withdraw from the previous contract or do a series of things. I think it's important to keep an eye on the target here. The aim is to ensure that these properties, at all, this system is not only accessible to our children, but also to our grandchildren, and there is a need for stability. That's why we're giving it to you. The tasks of the Hungarian National Holiday Foundation in the future - for another question - will continue to be provided by the Hungarian National Holiday Foundation for social, social and welfare activities. So I think the kind of concern that the system that has been built so far doesn't work is baseless. So I ask you to vote for this bill. Thank you. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-29-277	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 1996 LXXXI on corporate tax and dividend tax. a debate on the Commission's reports on the amendment of Law No 1 of 2004 on Sport and on the summary amendment proposal. T/9621 submitted by representatives of Bánki Erik, Manninger Jenő, Mengyi Roland Fidesz The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-29-278	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 24 March 2016, the Legislative Committee discussed the 1996 LXXXI on corporation tax and dividend tax. Act T/9621 amending Act I of 2004 on Sport Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution 46. It adopted it by 27 votes in favour, 1 against and 4 abstentions. During the Committee meeting, members discussed the five-point technical amendment proposal of the Economic Committee in the background, which contains specific grammatical and clarification provisions. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment primarily serves to make the visual team sport support system and related administrative processes smoother. Please support the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-29-279	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, No minority opinion will be presented. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone on behalf of the authors wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] Congressman Manninger points out that they do not wish to speak. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone wants to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Yes, you have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2016-03-29-280	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen. LXXXI of 1996 on corporation tax and dividend tax. In the general debate, we have already heard in detail the position of the pro-government and opposition representatives and the government on the amendment of the Act and Act I of 2004 on Sport. The Government supports the amendments, which are justified by the experience gained in practical applications as a result of the ongoing consultations of the Secretary-General for Sport and the sports associations, and we also support the current legal and grammatical wording, which is purely administrative. During the discussions, we have heard several suggestions regarding the monitoring of the Tao Law, and I would therefore like to say as an information that from 1 January 2014 the powers of the sports associations and their control tasks have been extended. According to this, in the case of a sports development programme not exceeding HUF 300 million, the professional associations carry out the checks, with a precise deadline and strict accounting guidelines and regulations. [[18.50]] In the case of a sports development programme exceeding HUF 300 million at present, the Department of Support and Controlling of EMMI's Secretary-General for Sport checks the intended use, maintaining the use of tangible assets and renovations from the grant for sport purposes on the basis of the statutory requirements. The amendments were necessary because of the problems encountered in practical applications and tasks and the clarification and clarification of intentions. These include, for example, developments on properties belonging to the core assets of the local government, mortgage registration issues or the tasks of the system of after-financed grants, the lodging of guarantee provisions and sub-accounts. We will be able to achieve even more effective operation through the application of legislative clarification, and this also includes that the provisions relating to the Olympic symbols and symbols are not integral to the amendment of the Tao Law, but since the sports law was affected by the Law of Ket. This year's amendment, which entered into force on 1 January, was amended to protect the symbols, to preserve the Olympic idea, to clarify and supplement these provisions for the purposes of authenticity, discrimination and credible information. After all, more and more times a year, the action initiated by the Hungarian Olympic Committee is being taken against companies, organizations, who use the word Olympics or the Olympic symbols without permission and not legally. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The amendment of the law before us and its summarised amendment is supported by the Government, which helps to ensure practical operation and efficiency of use, so I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-29-281	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of two-minute speeches during the debate. No one came forward in writing. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-29-282	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I promise I'll be brief, and I won't go into the business with the Tao that we've been through in the general debate. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary will support the amendment of the law, as we see that there are mainly technical amendments to this amendment, and parts of it... [[András Tállai: Nothing from Jobbik!]] I thought Mr. Secretary would speak, so I thought I'd wait. It would really be nice if we could talk about sports, although you were in the sport last time, representing the government, and then we couldn't discuss sports. So we will support these technical amendments. What I still don't understand about the NOB is that I understand that it is important to represent merchandising rights as effectively as possible, but what the law is changing now, I still don't see what the important change is that is going to change substantially. I am expressing only one hope to the Secretary of State that we may be finished with the Tao now. Within a year, this is the sixth amendment, so we hope that in the next year there will be no further six amendments to the Tao Law, but only the detailed ones mentioned by the Secretary of State, we expect the new Tao Law before the House, and we look forward to what will be in it with excitement. This amendment is supported by the Jobbik Movement for Hungary. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-29-283	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I wonder if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I will ask Mr Jenő Manninger, as rapporteur, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] The congressman indicates that he does not wish to reply. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The 2015 CV on the debt settlement of natural persons follows a series of steps. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. T/9541 submitted by Dénes Galambos, Imre Vas, Fidesz, and Imre Vejkey, KDNP, representatives. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-29-284	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The introduction of the private bankruptcy in Hungary and thus the establishment of a procedure for the removal of families from the debt trap were the Christian democrats' particular goal of ensuring that the debts of the insolvent credit-debt families could be settled without eviction. In order to help achieve the objective, we intend to extend the deadline for March 2016 open to the initiative of debt settlement procedures until 30 September 2016. We ask honourable Members to support this proposal. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-29-285	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to speak. [[For signal:]] Mr Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to speak. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be followed by the two-minute speeches. It is now up to the speaker who has been notified in writing. I give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP Group, please.
u2016-03-29-286	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Dear fellow Members, As early as 2010, the Hungarian Socialist Party presented its complete draft law on private bankruptcy, which could provide substantial assistance to a wide range of debtors. Fidesz has even prevented the parliamentary trial of our bill. Instead of really helping debtors, he left this extremely important issue to the Christian Democrats' own playground. After years of treason, KDNP finally submitted a legislative freak to the Parliament, which I also said in the parliamentary debate. The KDNP has demonstrated its total social insensitivity and has imposed Dracon conditions on debtors that are impossible to meet, and therefore almost no one is willing to use. I also said in the debate that, until 15 February, only 199 people had used the private bankrupt institution, which indicates what we said in the parliamentary debate that under these conditions very few families can be helped. There were many more debtors, even KDNP itself talked about helping 30-40 thousand debtors by referring to financial institutions when the first law was introduced. Compared to this, 199 is considered to be a small number. True, my fellow Member said that if one person could be saved, it is also very important, only if you look at the cost side, it is directly proportional to the almost 700 million forints spent on this system, because training was carried out, they developed websites for 200 million forints, you have a ministerial commissioner for 220 thousand forints a month, and if this amount had been distributed among these 199 people, they would have been protected from the procedure, the follow-up, and the system would have been a little more efficient. Therefore, as in the past, we can only talk about the amendment of the law in so far as the deadline has been extended again, and the law itself has not been amended, which should have been applied to make it simpler. We should have taken out the bill submitted by the Hungarian Socialist Party, looked at it, and see if the system would be more effective and we could really help the Hungarian families. I would add that as of March 1st, the moratorium on eviction is also over, so those families in Hungary today who are in a debt spiral are in a truly hopeless situation. So we cannot in any way support this simple amendment. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[19.00]]
u2016-03-29-287	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Statement will be made by Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet, LMP Group. Here you go.
u2016-03-29-288	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As can be seen in the Commission report, no amendment has been tabled to this bill, which is no wonder, since it consists of a single small amendment extending the whole deadline again. Last September, the law on private bankruptcy came into force, but it's been amended for the second time. This time, the deadline extended until 1 March 2016 is extended until 30 September 2016 for the submission of first-stage debt settlement requests. The reason is the same as in the first amendment. Compared to preliminary expectations, there was little interest in private bankruptcy. So far, only 199 debtors have initiated proceedings, while the government has calculated 20-25 thousand short-term entrants. Which means they were expecting a hundred times as many entrances in the lower voice. Seeing these numbers, and the time limits that have come to the end of the line don't increase interest, it would be time for the government to realize that your miracle weapon has failed. The institution of the private bankruptcy, which was introduced late and without proper preparation, failed in this form. So it is not what the government used to argue that this is a time-consuming process. There was simply a poorly prepared, hasty regulation. As we have often said, the private failure, under such strict conditions of entry and cooperation, restricts the scope of entry. A lot of conditions have to be met, too much income has to be paid, too much repayment has to be paid, and too little income can be kept for everyday living. Thus, among some 182 thousand in distress, very few have access to private bankruptcy. It takes a regular income above average, a stable job. In addition, a serious existential sacrifice must be made. During the five years of debt settlement, the family of the debtor has to live well below the minimum level of living, and the amount that can be spent on living beyond housing is one and a half times the retirement pension minimum, which is HUF 128 250 for three persons. Most of the insolvent debtors are low-income debtors, who have not been helped by any measure so far, neither by the end-payment nor by the National Asset Manager. The latter is not a realistic option because of the low number of apartments that he can take over. Private bankruptcy could have been an important institution for tens of thousands of families if it hadn't been for such complicated and poorly assembled regulations. The LMP has repeatedly said that there should be a significant simplification of the administration involved in the application. The conditions for entry into private bankruptcy should be amended so that debtors with typically lower housing and lower regular income can also initiate. The mandatory instalment should be reduced to the solvency of the debtor, adjusted to its income. The level of disposable income should be set at a higher level and not in proportion to the minimum pension rate, but in proportion to the minimum wage. A solution must also be found to ensure that if a person becomes insolvent without his own fault, for example, because he loses his job or becomes incompetent, this should not be considered as a break-up of cooperation or put on the street. The LMP would also state in the Fundamental Law the right to housing so that no one could get on the street. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] At the same time, private bankruptcy can only be one of the elements of debt support measures. It would be necessary to create a affordable, low-cost rental network, which could help crowds. Currently, just over half of the municipal housing, and one-and-a-half of the total housing stock, are rented on a social basis. A public housing fund should therefore be set up and ways of involving vacant private dwellings in the community housing sector should also be found. The housing crisis will continue and mass debt will be a problem until there are sufficient numbers and affordable social and community rentals and a strong social system. We very much hope that if you put forward a proposal to amend this law once again, then those proposals will indeed be substantive amendments. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-03-29-289	Thank you, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck. I salute my fellow Members. I do not see a candidate on the screen, so the debate is closed. I give you the floor, because I see you're getting ready, from among the authors, to Congressman Imre Vejkey, who has nine minutes.
u2016-03-29-290	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We regretted that the speakers of the MSZP and LMP rejected the bill and thus did not give it another chance to those creditors. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: We do not give! We'd give it to you.]] the exit from the debt trap in the context of the private bankruptcy procedure, who have not so far followed government information and legal requirements, therefore missed the deadlines for initiating the debt settlement procedure. The extension of the deadline for the application of private bankruptcy does not mean the failure of a new legal institution in the sense of siren voices, but rather, on the contrary, that in the benefit of our fallen citizens whose ability to assert their interests towards banks is limited, we should again support them in order to escape the slavery of the debtor so that they can stay in their homes. Ladies and Gentlemen, Today, we have been able to help nearly 350 families in need by introducing a private bankruptcy. Please support T/9541 on the amendment of Act V of 2015 on the Settlement of Natural Persons Debt. Bill No.3 in order to help other families. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-03-29-291	Thank you, Congressman Vejkey. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, It follows that the investment in maintaining the capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant and the amendment of certain laws related to it will be carried out in 2015 in accordance with Annex VII. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. The government referral is T/9632. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author... [[Dr. Pál Völner says no.]] He says he doesn't want to speak now. So maybe you'll have ten minutes to explain the closing. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. The speeches will now take place on the agenda in the time frame indicated on the display. There is no possibility of two-minute comments during the debate. I give the floor to Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck.
u2016-03-29-292	[[His mic's not working.]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Is there a voice? 'Cause it's like it's not. [[The mike's on.]] The Putin-Orbán meeting will discuss the situation and development perspectives of bilateral relations, measures to extend mutually beneficial trade and economic cooperation. This is what the Hungarian public could have learned in advance about the reason for Viktor Orbán's travel to Moscow in January 2014. Since then, Putin's secretly negotiated expansion project in Paks has been accompanied by unfair secrecy and misconception compared to the project's weight and the amount of public funds to be spent. The low point was last year's amendment of the nuclear law, when all the preparatory documents and contracts of the investment were actually attempted to be removed from parliamentary and social control. [[19.10]] In the case of the Paks expansion, which primarily serves Russian interests, rather than the energy supply in Hungary, it is a recurring element that Brussels is trying to protect Hungarian taxpayers from domestic power instead of the allegedly national government. This is what we are seeing now, when the range of encryption is forced to be a little tighter under pressure in Brussels. The possibility of secrecy has indeed been reduced by the decision of the European Commission, to which the Hungarian government will be forced to adapt, but this has not yet answered the basic questions of the planned enlargement project. We still don't know for how much money what the Russians have undertaken to build, what we have to build from Hungarian budgetary sources. It remained vague about the investments needed to integrate the two blocks into the network and operate them together with the old nuclear power plant, how much money they will cost and who will pay the bill. The Hungarian public knows much more about the main parameters of European nuclear power plant building projects than about the expansion of Paks. It is a public record of the time and cost overrun in France or Finland, but we will never know about the Paks enlargement, because we no longer know the starting figures. In France or Finland, a nuclear power plant can be built without prejudice to national security considerations, so that citizens know how much the investment costs, who pays and why the construction needs to be completed. The fact that this information is known would create a national security risk in Hungary alone. LMP rejected this argument from the outset. We believe that the state should have no secrets from voters and taxpayers in the case of an investment of up to a hundred percent public money, defining the country's economy, energy system and foreign policy for decades. Paks enlargement is not a private matter of Viktor Orbán and some of his confidants; the interests of the Russian main contractor must not be more important than the basic information rights enshrined in the Constitution. We use the suspicion that the recent developments, such as the Paks II project company's business decisions that always favor Viktor Orbán's current friends, confirm this assumption that by keeping secrets they want to facilitate the elimination of public funds. The LMP cannot vote in favour of the bill because it still does not ensure the minimum required transparency and because our corrective amendment has been rejected by the majority of governments. Hungarian taxpayers have the right to know who and what they are building with their money, but this law still does not provide the necessary information to control public spending. We are therefore continuing to work towards the transparency of enlargement preparations and to ensure that the worst, most unnecessary and corrupt investment of the century is never made. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-03-29-293	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, in a ten-minute timeframe.
u2016-03-29-294	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Here, too, in the general debate, we have made it clear in detail that this amendment actually contains a focus on text, and it may still be possible to reassure my fellow Members that it is possible to refuse disclosure of data only in respect of business and technical data. The judicial forum is still available to anyone interested in data, so data cannot be withheld unduly. And what the Congresswoman has said is that this is a corrupt investment, when this has not yet started, can be seen as a prejudication. I ask you to refrain from such expressions in the future. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-29-295	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the implementation of the EU Customs Code and the final amendment proposal follow up. The government referral is T/9601. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee.
u2016-03-29-296	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/9601 on 24 March 2016. Rule 46 of the Act on the implementation of the EU Customs Code, as presented in the Official Journal of the European Union. It adopted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 32 votes in favour and a unanimous decision. The amended amendment adopted contains 43-point proposals from the Economic Committee, mainly of a technical nature. At the committee meeting, two questions were raised about the bill. One is the separation between the customs consultant and the customs agent, in which case a higher level of knowledge is required of the person employed in the duties of the customs consultant, and, where appropriate, a special function, while the customs agent deals with the completion of the submissions in his daily work. Furthermore, as a professional issue, clarification has been raised as a result of the definition of the customs agent. I quote:. Legal person or other entity without legal personality may carry out customs operations if at least one member, employee or permanent representative is registered as customs agents and if the customs agent's activity at the border crossing point does not interfere with the conduct of border traffic. So the paragraph refers to the location of the spedition buildings without disrupting the operation of the border traffic. Let me add that this is also included in the national customs law currently in force. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-29-297	Thank you, Congressman Salacz. Dear Parliament, I will now ask the author if he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, indicates that he does not, so if he does so at the end, he will have a ten-minute timeframe. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. The speeches will now take place in the time frame on the agenda, which you can see on the display. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First I give the floor to Members who have applied in advance in writing; first I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, notary of the Parliament.
u2016-03-29-298	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In short, I would just like to say three or four thoughts. One is obviously about what is the specific nature of the European Union, so that, among the four fundamental rights, the free movement of goods is linked here to the issue of the renewable customs code. It is a long process, about this ten-year process, which can be behind us in this regard, a series of negotiations based on the regulations of the European Parliament and the Council. For this reason or in connection with this, it is necessary for us to make adjustments and to make arrangements for the uniform structure of the law, taking into account the characteristics of the country. I think this is okay, so there is no problem with that, and also with what actually comes back in terms of basic objectives in terms of increasing the security of international trade, and so to speak, the enforcement and enforcement of a kind of positive discrimination for the most reliable. In fact, there may be only one question pending today's negotiating moment on which there has been no concrete confirmation, no reply, and perhaps the Secretary of State will be able to express a helpful opinion in this respect. [[19.20]] This is the fact that the implementation of the deadlines in two instalments for the years 2016 and 2019 and, in addition, the provision of IT support will only be fully developed by 2020. In fact, this 2020 date is a bit confusing in the story, if it is the way our reading supports it. I would like to receive confirmation from the Secretary of State on how and how the situation looks. That's about all I wanted to add. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-03-29-299	Thank you very much. I'll see if anyone else wants to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any sign on the screen. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed and I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary.
u2016-03-29-300	Mr President, Dear Parliament, As regards the expectations regarding the implementation of the transition to EU customs legislation in Hungary, the Hungarian customs service operates with outstanding results in a European comparison and plays an important role in the control of goods at external borders. Using our IT systems, export and import customs clearances are carried out by electronic procedures at almost 100%, and customs control also supports the legality of the application of the law with good results. Dear Parliament, The lack of amendments by Members also shows that the bill was the result of extensive professional stakeholder consultations after serious professional preparation, scheduled for EU legislation, which is still ongoing. There is a relatively short period of preparation for the future application of the bill for farmers, with economic disadvantages already indicated by the Member States during the debate on EU legislation. At the same time, the implementation of modernisation is a vital issue in the digital age, as is the development of simpler and more cost-effective procedures. On this basis, I ask you to support the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-29-301	Thank you, Mr András Tállai State Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Now, Honourable Parliament, the 2011 CXCV on public finances follows. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. The government referral is T/9372. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that during the trial of the bill, the government is represented by the Minister of National Economy. Dear Parliament, I ask whether, on behalf of the authors, Mr Tállai, State Secretary, would like to speak now in the introduction.
u2016-03-29-302	Not now.
u2016-03-29-303	Secretary of State says no. You will have a ten-minute time frame at your end of the debate. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Vantara, rapporteur for the Committee on Budgets.
u2016-03-29-304	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the House that the 2011 CXCV on public finances took place at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets on 22 March 2016. T/9372. The detailed debate of the bill No. 1 and its conclusion. At the same time, the committee decided to adopt the report on the in-depth debate by making the decision in the House Rule 44 of the Rules of Procedure. It complies with paragraph 1 of Section 1. A total of two amendments were tabled on behalf of Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, which were not supported by 3 votes in favour and 10 votes against, given that in the general debate on 16 March they were answered with detailed explanations. The Committee did not make any further amendments, so it did not submit the Commission's amendment closing the in-depth debate. I ask this House to vote in favour of the amendment of the Public Finance Act, which I believe will contribute to an effective fiscal policy. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-03-29-305	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, the notary of the Parliament, who presents the minority opinion of the committee.
u2016-03-29-306	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, What happened to the detailed debate that my colleague Gyula Vantara mentioned? Well, in the second stage of the detailed debate, there were two amendments tabled by me, in which I explained what these motions contained, but the head of department present on behalf of the government could not really provide meaningful answers, why the government actually refused to accept them, and why they were not considered a good idea. One of my suggestions was that we would have maximized 40% of the reserve's first six months. We know that the government wants to release this in its entirety, and in terms of commitments, it could be exceeded by any percentage, but not just this 40 percent, but even the 100 percent. My other amendment was that we wanted to keep the decision on reserves under the authority of the Minister of National Economy. Interestingly, the head of department of the Ministry of National Economy did not think this request, this motion, was important and important, so that was all the Commission's debate itself. I would like to explain all my other arguments in the rest of the debate, if possible. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-29-307	It's possible. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The speakers will now take part in the time frame on the agenda, which can be seen on the display. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Vantara, Fidesz.
u2016-03-29-308	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The 2011 CXCV on public finances. We have before us the amendment of Law No 22 of 16 March, the general discussion of which took place on 16 March, and then the detailed debate was held and concluded at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets on 22 March. The proposed legislation is only a few pages, but I think it contains more important measures, so it is worth talking again about the purpose of this bill. This amendment to the Public Finance Act will allow the government to spend the savings or additional revenue generated by the budget appropriations without waiting until it becomes a remnant, so that public tasks can be carried out faster and more efficiently than at present, as financial needs arising during the year will be able to be sourced more quickly, but with maximum compliance with strict budgetary discipline. Let us now look at some details by means of the legislative amendment, which also affect the implementation of the budget. The Parliament authorises the Government to implement it transparently and effectively by adopting the Finance Act. The government is also interested in effective implementation and has great freedom. There are obviously some elements in the management of the budgetary framework and in their redeployment that it cannot touch. Therefore, the government will not wait, as I just said, for a remnant to emerge, which will help to make effective use of it in the mid-year period. [[19.30]] For any purpose, transfers have so far been possible within the ministerial framework. Of course, when the budget closes, you have to report in detail the location of transfers in Hungarian: where and to what extent. I would like to stress to you that the accusations concerning the withdrawal of powers in relation to the Parliament do not remove powers from the Parliament of this bill. The decisions used by the government to use these frameworks are public, as they appear in the form of government decisions, are transparent and, as has already been mentioned, help to ensure efficient interim use. With regard to the assumption that the government will prepare an election budget in the year of the elections and make these uses opaque by means of this legislative amendment, I would like to say that two government cycles have been completed where the Fidesz government has not done so. Consequently, this action is not part of Fidesz's economic policy. Once again, in summary, the above bill does not detract from the Parliament's powers, allows for a more efficient, transparent management, publicizes the way in which government decisions are used, and against overspending, the previous two government examples, I think, can serve as a worthy example. Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore ask that, on the basis of the above, your vote in favour of T/9372 be taken in tomorrow's vote. Bill No. 1. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-03-29-309	Thank you, Congressman Vantara. I now give the floor to Mr László Szakács, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2016-03-29-310	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, We don't think much about this case. I still think that even though you say a hundred times that this is not a regulation government, even if you say it a hundred times that it is more transparent, you can say it 200 times, three hundred times, that does not make it more transparent. I would ask my honourable pro-government fellow Member, even Mr State Secretary, not to confuse efficiency with haste and, in any case, to confuse transparency with what is not transparent. For now, we are happy that at least the government's decisions are public. More and more things are going into that bag that no one will ever know, not even the Members of Parliament. The MNB's assets will slowly lose the character of public money, and Posta's contract portfolio will lose the essence of the public interest data that can be requested. They will lose them, and slowly the public wealth will lose its character in this. Obviously, if decisions are taken, fellow Members, there will be no debate about them here. You can talk about it before the agenda, you can speak after the agenda, with individual decisions you will decide what is a remnant from now on, and what is still assigned to one task. In other words, not you, fellow Members of the opposition, not too many people in this Chamber, but members of the government will decide that. I keep saying that I think you should take this as a criticism, too, that the government doesn't trust you enough to tell you what it wants to do with the budget, but simply that you won't even discuss it with you, but that you will make a decision about it, and then you will be able to read it publicly, and that you will think it will be transparent. I don't think that's gonna make it transparent. The only thing that can be achieved is that Michael Varga has some level of miscarriage in this matter, and it can also be seen in the press statements that he did not necessarily know exactly what was going to happen. He said that with this amendment, the government will eventually receive things, that the government will have rights that it has already had. That's what Michael Varga said. Then, after all, we do not know why this amendment is necessary; if you have already had it, use it. Speed, while we were talking to Mr. Secretary of State, or at least he's trying to talk to me, but I would say that speed and simplicity are, in my opinion, aspects of cooking, not budget planning, and certainly not implementation. The proper definition of transparency, accuracy and measured tasks and their execution, completion, financing, I believe, are the tasks that would be very good in a rule of law, not that the government and certain actors in the government would be given a huge additional task, additional responsibility and obviously this opportunity, and that all Members of Parliament will be deprived of the opportunity to discuss them. I see that I will still respond to some comments, so I will continue in the debate. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-03-29-311	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs, notary of the Parliament. You have the floor.
u2016-03-29-312	Thank you very much for the floor. I was just about to ask the Secretary of State to sit down, this is a genre where the speaker stands up and talks to the House and everyone else listens sitting down. So feel free to make yourself comfortable, but I can see you did.
u2016-03-29-313	We're listening, Congresswoman. We're listening.
u2016-03-29-314	Well, you have big press, Mr. Secretary, on this proposal, so I hope you're proud of that. Recently, an economist professor considered this initiative to be hairbending. I think that if, as an architect, a professor of architecture, my former teacher were to consider any of my plans as such, I would certainly wonder if the professionalism of that was indeed correct. So, Mr Secretary of State, you will receive from us these criticisms that you are hearing, with due humility, and listen to him see if he learns from it, in case you will feel that perhaps you have been led by the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office, and indeed this is what my fellow chef here has said that Mihály Varga will be underage with this. He will be the last person to know what the country's money is being spent on, because the point of the motion itself, whether you like it or not, may mean otherwise, but the letters are about that, so that, yes, if necessary, any minister, but most importantly, the Prime Minister, may be able to commit. The problem with this bill, Mr. Secretary of State, is that we do not know how far the government will go, what the size of its commitments will be and what the deadline will be. So when we say that the government is expected to have a kind of election budget, then, yes, that is exactly what we are thinking. By the way, let me say that in this debate it is quite clear, as is usually the case with Fidesz, that there has been a kind of new talk, and let us admit that one of the greatest masters of this is András Tállai here among us. That is why I respect him because he is not big, or, to say the least, this quality is extremely rare, I must say, even here in this House, although other Fidesz people are trying to do it significantly. When the Secretary of State tells us to believe that this will make the budget more transparent, we know that it will certainly not be more transparent. If you say that the government will manage responsibly, then we can be quite sure that this bill is about the fact that the government will want to be extremely irresponsible. For example, Mr Tállai, State Secretary, mentioned earlier that he did not detract from powers. This is the funniest part, by the way, that this bill does not remove powers from Parliament. Yes, it is. That is why I say that a new way of thinking and a new way of talking, the Orwellian new talker, will be introduced here, Mr. Secretary of State, at a very high level. I can honestly say that when you talk about the submission of the 2017 Budget Act in May at the end of April, this bill always comes back to me in a regular way as to why we're really gonna clown around here by making a budget law. [[19.40]] Not to mention that much sooner than it would normally be, so before the closing accounting law can be negotiated by the House in September, October, we will begin to negotiate it in April and May. Not to mention that you are planning a budget of zero, a budget of zero, and the Secretary of State and the Minister will submit it here, which means that there will be no shortage, when you are about to make unfunded commitments on this bill. They take away a lot of licenses from the House, which we know will be that the government will be free in virtually any respect, and the political product you call a budget of zero is again a hoax, a parody, and, in fact, a mockery of Hungarian parliamentarism. It was also said that the government had already been authorised to move freely, but just as my fellow Member, Szakács, asked this rhetorical question, why this amendment of the bill, while explaining it, we did not get an answer here in plenary, either in the Commission debate or in the general debate before, because we cannot really, let us admit, give a meaningful answer. So to sum up, I have to say, as I said in the general debate, this is the bill of attic sweeping, it is clear that you want to empty the register before a next government can take over the steering wheel. Moreover, it is a cowardly proposal, because they want to avoid parliamentary debates, and it is weak, because it is clearly that Hungary is not performing better, Hungary is performing worse. We can see this from the February deficit figures, for example, and in fact you are trying to fill certain budget holes in this bill. In fact, the ship is sinking, that is what we should talk about, Mr. Secretary, finally honestly, because Hungarian citizens deserve it. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-29-315	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman László Szakács, MSZP.
u2016-03-29-316	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must admit, I was a little surprised that it was my turn right away, because for a moment I saw it as if Mr Secretary of State wanted to participate in the debate in a formal way, which I would have liked very much. I would like to add two more thoughts to what I said earlier on this matter. This did not just start, it started with the Hungarian Development Bank, which was brought under the Lazarus Ministry as well as the implementation of the budget itself, obviously, under the János Lázár coordination, and its implementation will be pushed in and brought under. The Hungarian Development Bank now does not need to amend the property law to create a company, it does not need to amend the property law to take out a loan and buy anything, it is enough to order it by decree of the Minister. I put it very nicely because it actually points out and gives an order, and then the Hungarian Development Bank will run away with resources, time and energy, and will buy that company. This is how the Hungarian Government and the Prime Minister's Office, led by János Lázár, will build a portfolio - otherwise for good or bad purposes, which we will be able to decide later. This started at the MFB, we are here at the budget, but there were stations between them, when they lost the nature of the public money, now the nature of the public property is losing the budget, the nature of the public money is lost by the MNB's money. Everything goes into a directional vector, where there is a big black hole, they want to throw all the Hungarian public assets into it, do what they want as an eternal government. I do not think that this will be the case, that you will be an eternal government, and I will end with what I last concluded: you will be ashamed of this decision. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-03-29-317	Thank you. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary of the Parliament, MSZP.
u2016-03-29-318	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Secretary, I don't want to get lost, so you don't tell me that I'm not dealing with matters on the subject. But at a time when everyone in this country sees public wealth and public money being wiped out, when everyone is experiencing denial of information of public interest, does it not feel, Mr. Secretary, that this story will make your personal role unnecessary in the future? We need two ministries, one under the leadership of János Lázár, the Prime Minister's Office, another propagada minister to blow the wind when it is necessary, to talk about what you think the Prime Minister will tell us - I'll put it in quotes - when Mihály Varga could serve it as head of department, we don't need ministers. What, what's the purpose of the whole story? Do you not feel, Mr State Secretary, that everything that is budgeted, all that is parliamentaryarism, all that is about the development of a responsible planning process, all that is about creating, as far as possible, an example of the budget, with greater agreement on the design numbers, the frame of use numbers? Don't you feel, Mr. Secretary, that there's a lot of room for manoeuvre anyway? There's a reserve, there's a reserve, there's a God knows what kind of reserve, hundreds of billions of forints, otherwise the government is free to manage within the budget. Why, why all the things they're still doing in this regard? Don't you think, Secretary of State, that all of this together, repeating the first sentence that information of public interest is being denied, cannot be accessed by trying to get public money, public property, out of this framework, that they want to adopt such laws now, that they want to go towards the government of the regulation, so that all these processes do not help to develop or strengthen a process within a normal framework? I think we should definitely think about that. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-03-29-319	Thank you very much. I will ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining time frame. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed, and I will give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, within a ten-minute timeframe.
u2016-03-29-320	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I would like to respond to a few things because I feel that the general debate has been repeated rather than the debate on the Commission report, which should have been the title and content of the agenda. Indeed, in the press, when the bill came out, it had a great echo, but then these echoes calmed down, because it turned out that, in terms of its content, it was not such a big bill that the whole country could be upset and possibly improve the popularity of opposition parties, so let's just say that there was a big press on this bill, but there is no more. I'm trying to answer some of the questions that have been raised today. So I'm asking you what kind of permissions this bill takes from Members of Parliament. [[Nándor Gúr, Dr. László Szakács: We can't answer because we don't get a word anymore.]] The government is still responsible for the implementation of the budget, and the government still has this decision. Now let's assume that something creates additional revenue, that there will be a remnant, that this remains will be decided by the government in the spring of the following year, April or May, and not by the Members of Parliament, the government. So what is happening now is that this commitment is brought forward by the government, that it sees a remnant on an appropriation, and it also sees that it knows that a surplus of revenue is generated and that it can be committed to the chapter it designates in its decision. [[19.50]] I don't know what kind of transparency is violated when the government decision itself is public, anyone could have read it. In the same way, the amendment of the title must be introduced at the Treasury, it can be seen on the website of the State Treasury, and the use of the source will appear in the bill of closure, which will be presented to the Parliament. Then tell me what kind of transparency is being violated. Sounds good, sounds good, just one letter - not a word, one letter - is not true of what you say. [[Nándor Gúr: It should have been said in the debate.]] I have also said in the debate, Mr Gúr, but you may not have been exactly here in this debate. [[Dr. László Kács: Not in the debate.]] As far as responsibility is concerned, this is something that is being said to be taken into account by the government, which has brought the country out of the overdeficit procedure. [[Nándor Gúr: Yes, yes!]] that kept the budget deficit below 3 percent? Now there's a two-percent budget deficit. Are you going to accuse him of being irresponsible in farming, which states that he is able to plan a zero-percent budget? Are you going to accuse the government that the European Union also recognises that it has very serious results in terms of farming? Are you accusing the government of irresponsible farming that collects HUF 800 billion more in the budget than in the previous year? The one that considers the budget deficit of 3 percent in stone and the budget as set out in the budget? [[Nándor Gúr and Dr. László Kács intervene.]] I am telling you that you should consider these accusations, and that you should be completely consistent and responsible in thinking that the things that you are throwing at us in connection with this bill are not true. It's not true that he's increasing the government's licenses. It is not true that you will be taken from the powers of Parliament and thus of Members. It is not true that the use of this resource will not be transparent, and it is not true that this is done by the government to continue its irresponsible management, because it has not continued or will not continue to do so. I ask that my fellow opposition Members accept these arguments. Thank you very much. [[Gyula Vantara applauds.]]
u2016-03-29-321	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Now, Honourable Parliament, the 2008 XL on natural gas supply will follow. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. The government referral is T/9633. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, I will ask the author if he wishes to speak now. [[András Tállai: Yes.]] Yeah. I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, with the consideration that he has a total timeframe of ten minutes.
u2016-03-29-322	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The report closing the detailed debate submitted by the Economic Committee is in line with the Government's position. Please support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Gyula Vantara applauds.]]
u2016-03-29-323	Thank you very much. Nine minutes and 38 seconds left for Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I give the floor - I see the name of Nándor Gúr in total - to MEP Nándor Gúr, notary of the Parliament.
u2016-03-29-324	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Secretary, I would like to ask with great respect that you do not hold a summary at the end of which you cannot reflect. It would greatly help us to think together if you were to give your opinion along the way, and then even the Members might have a way to reflect on what you say. Then perhaps it would be possible to get closer in opinions to each other, not as before, as Members say something, you do not respond to it on the way, and then at the end you try to teach the Members who are unable to speak. [[Intercom from Jobbik's benches.]] Of course, he'll try.
u2016-03-29-325	Congressman, get to the point.
u2016-03-29-326	Sure. Of course, Mr. President, I'll keep going, I'll do my job. So with all due respect, I'd like to ask you to talk to each other as we go along, and then maybe we can have a real conversation. On the draft law on gas supply 2016. CHAPTER IX 30 of month shall be the date on which the extension of the natural gas supply contracts which expire shall be made or renewed. That happens two years ago. There is an immediate question as to why not three, because in February 2016... And the reason why I am asking you this again is because in the general debate there was also a question, and we did not get an answer there, and it would be good if the draft law was adopted, at least we could see it clearly and clearly. In Hungarian, February 2016 Prime Minister Orbán visited Moscow, and there was an extra one year extension. Why does this not appear in this regulation? Isn't that the reason you don't want to lower your price because of the Russian contract? What kind of agreement has actually been reached between Orbán and Putin in this regard? Mr. Secretary of State is likely to know about this. It would be good if you shared this with us within the walls of Parliament. The extension of the two gas years could in this sense provide greater security for three years. If my memoirs do not deceive me, then the Secretary of State of Aradski, in connection with this matter, has already said, in connection with the discussion on the general debate the other day, that it is not silly to suggest it itself, so this three-year contract can be thought-provoking. If it could be, I'd like to ask you what's happened since then, so where's the thought come from? What about the events of the last two years? We know that imported natural gas has been down by about 50 percent, and we are watching who benefits from this. What we see is that the benefit of this, its return, does not land with humans. If you're going through a 50-percent drop in prices and people aren't benefiting from it, then what kind of overhead cuts are you talking about? This type of Fidesz overhead reduction, by the way, means that the price is falling, but the population in the consumption price does not notice any of this, they pay virtually more than the cost of the gas would otherwise cost. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: They pay a lot more.]] Yes, my fellow Member says and rightly says much, much more. That's right. So there's no other way to translate it, and I don't want to. I would like to ask you with great respect not to profit on people, while you tell them how good they are doing them. That's the story of the double con. Of course, there is, if I remember correctly, 25 billion forints in the hands of the Minister of Propaganda, how to fool people, mislead them, make them see a world that is contrary to reality, while pretending to be what they are pretending to be, to tell them how much good you are doing in their behalf. So, if you want to do something, you should continue with such a fair price reduction, which would contribute to or would be accompanied by a reduction in the average consumer's heating costs of at least 20 per cent. That's what we should do. In fact, it could be asked when the price of oil and natural gas will be reduced either by electricity or by district heating. But I do not want to go further with questions, and I would like to stand here, with great respect, to draw your attention to the fact that he has a way of answering these questions, and then perhaps there is a way to continue the kind of discussion that would lead to a meaningful debate between Parliament's walls. So once again, with great respect, I ask you not to do a 9 minute 28-second summary at the end, but to answer questions raised during the procession. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[20.00]]
u2016-03-29-327	Thank you very much. I will ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed and I will ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to close. [[András Tállai: I do not wish to take advantage of this opportunity.]] He doesn't want to. [[András Tállai intervenes.]] Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. [[András Tállai: I'm not saying I didn't understand, I just didn't hear it. Defiance.]] Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. We now have post-scheduled speeches. After-the-meeting speech was submitted by Rousin Giricz Vera Speaker of the Nationalities:, II. The title of Ferenc Rákóczi and the Ruthenians. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame. [[Noise.]] And please, my fellow Members, a little quieter. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Here, let's hear it.
u2016-03-29-328	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Честованый Пан Предс Честован... депутаты! Țеренц Раковцnáz justa. - Великый Князь и доброд.тель Русинув, памнять про н-го навично захранить ся у прамняти нашого народа. Mr President, Dear House, ANNEX II Ferenc Rákóczi is the great prince and benefactor of the Ruthenians, and our grateful people will remember him forever. ANNEX II In Ferenc Rákóczi's memoirs he wrote about his return from Poland through the Vereckei Pass in 1703:. Those who will read these lines will not be able to believe the people's attachment to me. By the time word of my arrival in the Dukeship of Munkács, you can hardly imagine how eager and happy the people had come to me. These men came with children, with wives, and, seeing me from afar, they descended on their knees and cast a cross. Not only did they feed their wives and children in their zeal and attachment, but they sent them home, and they joined my army, and never left me again, and declared that they wanted to live and die with me. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Antal Hodinka, an academic of Ruthenian origin, is a member of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. In the work of Prince Ferenc Rákóczi and my most loyal people, the Ruthenians, we can read interesting information about the Ruthenian soldiers serving in the army of the great prince between 1704 and 1705. This means that out of the 22 villages of the Verhovina Ipanese, four villages gave soldiers, 95 villages of the 128 Ruthen village of the Munkács estate, a total of 391 people, which meant that one in three people had joined II. To the army of Ferenc Rákóczi. Out of the 33 villages of the Beregszentmiklós estate, 12 villages gave soldiers, a total of 33 people, most of them - 25 people - had hair. 19 of the Ruthenians in the freedom fighter army received military rank. The success of the Rákóczi War of Liberty meant the preservation of prerogatives already acquired, and Prince Rákóczi assured them of this possibility. The Ruthenians fought faithfully to defend their Hungarian and their own freedom, and held to the very last: Munkács was the last strength of the Kuruc resistance. In 1710, in the increasingly critical situation, the Kurucs withdrew to the Upper Tisza region and began peace talks with the Emperor's representatives. ANNEX II Ferenc Rákóczi, hoping to help the Russian Tsar, traveled to Poland through the Vereckei Pass. On the way to the Vereckei Pass, the great prince and his handful of troops touched Solyva and its surroundings. The Ruthenians helped their journey with food, shelter, and escort. Királyfizállás villagers forgery of the chasing labs II. Ferenc Rákóczi and his team horses were hopped upside down, so the army started with the freedom fighters along the Latorca River towards the pass. Later, a resting place was held under young ash trees, where the great prince said goodbye to his beloved country with tears in his eyes. The once young saplings have become large trees, and the inhabitants of the area are proud and fearlessly protecting and caring for them, as they preserve the glorious memory of Ruthenian history. Each year, on the eve of the central Memorial, the Hungarian Ruthenian community with nearly 400-500 people is located in Sárospatak, in the park of the Rákóczi Museum of the Hungarian National Museum. At the statue of Ferenc Rákóczi and the birthplace of Borsi, he salutes the memory of the great prince. Traditionally, the event series starts with the Hungarian and Ruthenian national anthems, followed by speeches and performances. The holiday is closed by wreathing. On 17 March 2015, the National Assembly of Hungary II. Ferenc Rákóczi declared his birthday to be a memorial day, which, by its decision, confirmed the respect of the domestic Ruthenian community, the Gens fidelissima, for the memory of the great prince. Thank you for listening.
u2016-03-29-329	Thank you for Giricz Vera Ruthenian ethnic advocate's thoughts. Dear Parliament, György Lukács László, representative of Jobbik also applied for a post-meeting speech with the title "The Revolutionary of Roses for Happy Mothers and Babys." I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2016-03-29-330	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I think we can agree that birth or birth may be one of the greatest wonders of human existence, provided that in this already vulnerable situation the future mother or father is not scared to death by doctors who are either elbowing the belly, questioning or cuckolding the birth without justification or because of a lack of time. This problem and this condition have been highlighted by about 300 people facing such situations, who, on March 20, in Budapest, are in a different state in the obstetrics! They took an awareness-raising walk. The initiative was an organization called the Revolutionary Rózsák, which in parallel organized a movement in Székesfehérvár, Szeged and Debrecen. In addition to the civil initiative, several artists, including T. Anna Szabó, György Dragomán and Bori Rutkai, have also stood up, but what is important: a large number of professional organisations and obstetricians have supported the change in an open letter, because we can be sure: change is needed. Over the last few weeks, hundreds of mothers on the social media site of cooperation have unfortunately shared their own negative experiences about childbirth and birth, so it can be seen that the birthing room - we say in parentheses: - violence is not selective. It's not a phenomenon affecting the poorer layers, it's a system glitch that affects engineers, psychologists, hairdressers, but also unemployed people in the delivery room. That is why I am coming to you, ladies and gentlemen, because I believe that only the factor that really shaped the system, namely Parliament, has an impact on the elimination of system errors, and that only Parliament can do so. What is going on in the background is worth recalling some of the figures concerning the system, which clearly show that there is a serious challenge in Hungary in this area. According to the WHO criteria system, there are only 14 hospitals in Hungary with a baby-friendly hospital, of which only one is the St. Stephen's Hospital in Budapest, although the criteria do not expect impossible: for example, it is necessary to ensure that the mother can spend the first non-absorbed hour with the child after childbirth, help her breast the baby, and never be separated from her mother for more than three hours. With adequate financial and adequate legal support, this situation could, of course, improve. Of course, we are not talking about evil doctors or midwives, and on the contrary, we are very capable, very enthusiastic workers, but the system itself contains shortcomings and poor recordings. The current regulation and funding system makes medical activity almost impossible, and the fear of malpractice lawsuits has forced doctors to minimise risk, which is why the percentage of C-sections in several hospitals in Hungary has been above 50 percent for years, so doctors are definitely going. In comparison, according to the WHO international organisation, caesarean section would be needed 10-15 percent of the time, so medically this would be justified in the country, whereas the statistics in the more developed Western countries are 30-50 percent, and what we can see behind it is that the rate of caesarean section in Western society is increasing and that Hungary is also scraping this imaginary ceiling from above, and in Hungary the 2015 statistics show 39 percent. [[20.10]] It is also worth going into domestic data in the sense that in 1990 there was a total of 10 percent of the C-sections in birth, and in 2000 it increased to 20 percent, and now, as I said, we are already at 39 percent in 2015. As an institutional record, the Budapest Honvéd Hospital also manages this list by 55 percent, 51-55 percent at Semmelweis University and Péterfy Sándor Utca Hospital. Surprisingly, the bottom of the list, i.e. where the minimum caesarean section takes place, is Kazincbarcika, 11 percent, and 22 percent at the Upper Szabolcs Hospital. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, it is so obvious that it is necessary to consider the regulation in order to reduce medically unjustified c-sections, so that we can create a more humane obstetrics, where the mother, the child, but not only focus on them, but also doctors themselves, health care workers, can spend these hours with dignity and joy, and in addition, they can work with the greatest security. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, if there is a proper political will, we can improve the disappointing data we have just outlined, and that women's birth experience is crucial for further childbearing, not only for grace but also for duty in the coming period. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-29-331	Thank you, Congressman. Mr Ander Balázs Jobbikos also applied for a post-the-meeting speech:. Southern Station, final stop? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-03-29-332	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, His name was opened in 1861 by the predecessor of the Southern Railway Station, which won his name from the Southern Railway Company, rather than his geographical location, as the end of the Nagykanizsa-Buda railway line. Today's form is due to plans made by György Kővári, because during World War II and during the siege, the facility was rebuilt on the basis of his ideas between 1968 and 74. Most of the fast trains serving Transdanubia start from the second busiest main railway station in the capital. Nevertheless, they wanted to close here for more than a hundred years, since already in 1901 he believed that Szilárd Zielinski was a professor of art that they could solve the tasks through Kelenföld. After the change of regime, the closing noises increased, even though everyone has so far realised that there is far from enough resources available to replace the station in Bel-Buda. Last year, after the collapse of the railway tunnel under Little Gellért Hill, a forced rest had to be ordered, but then the South was back on the market. Otherwise, write anything in the pro-government press commissioned to feed the closure plan to the general public, when the trains arrived in Kelenföld, about 38 flights had to be cancelled due to a lack of capacity, inter alia because of the recent loss of track due to the P+R parking lot on the Őrmező side. So Kelenföld couldn't take over the role of the South, and if the fall in the summer season with a denser schedule, the Balaton season, it would have been traffic chaos. Undoubtedly, though the South Railway Station was once an elegant building, because it was considered the tourist gate of Lake Balaton, today the block of buildings became one of Buda's shames due to the lack of maintenance and decay, and in its present state it would be more suited to one of the Lower Balkan railway companies than to the capital. As is the case with the Balkan tradition that, before the latest closure plans, the government has not agreed with anyone, as usual, but we are not surprised at that. Even now, we do not see the government consulting experts, transport designers, landscape architects, railway specialists and even city sociologists, which is essential to even assess the possible consequences of a decision. I see that at our age some Eastern European political decision-makers think they are polyhistoric and omnipotent - hear the complaints and legitimate criticisms of experts. No wonder, then, that speeding up the closure of the South raises the intention or suspicion of an abuse of real estate. I mean, when is the South gonna get wasted? In one case, most experts agree that if suburban trains were to run deep and connect railway stations under the capital. This is a grand idea, together with the establishment of the main railway station that brings traffic through, and there is one problem with it: we do not see the necessary resources anywhere, but we do not always see the reason. 30,000 people a day and 120 trains arriving and leaving to find a new place? Plow the South? Do you set up a P+R parking lot in its place, even though it's customary on the outskirts of the city? Stop suburban trains in Kelenföld when suburban traffic is all about coming downtown? On this basis, the southern railway terminal could be in Nagytétény or Érden, and they could start express flights to downtown as part of the 33rd bus family. Wouldn't that be nonsense? Trusting that the replacement of the Southern can be financed by the real estate use of the liberated area, when there are still thousands of hectares of unused brownfield zones in Budapest today? Is it possible to build on EU money, which could be much more useful spending on others? It's also irresponsible gambling with public funds, isn't it? We are now telling you that, without the necessary operational improvements, international national and suburban rail transport to Budapest, as well as a noticeable deterioration in the quality of public transport in Central and North Buda, would result in an increase in individual transport needs, in the already overcrowded area of Buda with regular city jams and slow access times. In particular, the deterioration may result in a permanent decrease in passenger traffic in suburban rail transport. It is clear that solving the problems of passenger traffic and operation would take years and hundreds of billions, but the closure is likely to be planned much earlier than to create the conditions for closure if it is to be created at all, as the main aim of the closure is probably not to improve Budapest's transport, but to generate financial benefits. That is why they do not consult anyone, and that is why we express our legitimate concerns in this way. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-29-333	Thank you very much. Zoltán Magyar, MP Jobbikós also applied for a post-meeting speech with the title 'II.' summary of the Ángyán reports. You have the floor within a five-minute time frame.
u2016-03-29-334	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, As I mentioned in the first part, it is not a coincidence that I began to process the summary of József Ángyán's state land privatisation here in my post-scheduled series of speeches and to highlight a certain detail. It cannot be a coincidence either, because, apart from the fact that we have a very thorough work ahead of us and it would be worth getting to the broadest possible public, he is also, as the former Secretary of State for Rural Development of the Fidesz Government, very credible about these issues. In the previous section, in the introduction, I explained what the most important pillars of this material are, and I would like to turn to a few specifics, because they clearly demonstrate that the government does not, by the way, have a thank-you relationship with what has been announced and what it communicates to this day. We have been told that governments around the world in general have three means of influencing their own countryside, their own agriculture. Of these, aid policy must be highlighted in particular and property policy, but the legal environment itself is very important, as it determines the efficiency of the two above. In the legislative environment itself, it is quite talkative that the Jobbik faction did not agree with the law affecting the most important Hungarian countryside, the earth traffic law, that we even occupied the presidential pulpit at the time to try to physically prevent its adoption, because at such a level it confronted earlier promises and the policy that the government had announced before 2010. The other thing I mentioned was the aid policy, and we have often said that, unlike communication, small and medium-sized family farmers living locally are not the biggest winners of the Fidesz government, and we can even see that in the last six years, the support for large capital interests has increased by about 50 percent. But what I would like to say in more detail is the land policy itself. The state inherited half a million hectares of agricultural land, which has been used through a rental system, in very mixed circumstances. In recent years, we have talked a lot about how harmful the process of the governments that have used this area has been. [[20.20]] Unfortunately, the first Orbán government was no exception. It followed a similar logic as socialist-liberal governments, when state lands, which are mostly large areas and high quality lands, were usually leased to the associated ones, for 50-99 years, at ridiculous rents. However, there was a break between the government's greatest agricultural interest and the head of government, in this form the agricultural war broke out, and in order to fight this war in such a way that even in Strasbourg it would hold its place, they did not say that they would only take the land out of an interest, but that they would privatize the entire state's resources, including the fish ponds and orchards, as we learned from the latest news. The result of this war was that, unlike their communication, about one in five winners were indeed the communicateable locally living family farmer. This is consistent with the numbers written by Joseph Ángyán. Here, we haven't even looked at what kind of party affiliation they may have or which moonyard they belong to. We said that if you are a locally-living family farmer, if you comply with the land policy guidelines, then of course we do not care at all what kind of voter or party you are in favour of, you certainly deserve this area. About 30 percent of the winners are openly and in a proven manner closely connected to the government side. These names have been mentioned many times, and I have had the opportunity to mention some of them here in the form of an immediate question. Another 30 percent are large plants that are supposedly not supported by the government and would like to reduce. As I have already said, it is clear from the aid policy that this is not true. And about 10 percent of them are foreign groceries. Here, too, after serious lies, I can repeat among the walls of the House that there is no such thing as not buying land in Hungary by foreigners. We are saddened to find that in practice this not only works, but also works in public lands. And about 10 percent we don't know anything about, so much that we're not talking about producing people, we're not talking about producing companies. I would like to continue with the rest of the details in my speech after the next agenda. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-29-335	Thank you, Congressman. Gergely Farkas, MP Jobbikós, also applied for a post-scheduled speech:. The opinion of the students in the Parliament should also be expressed. - Report to Jobbik's Youth Department. - Hear your voice. The results of his campaign with the title "I." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-03-29-336	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Jobbik's Youth Division last week. Let your opinion be made in Parliament. He launched a campaign with the title "The opinion of the young people involved in public education" to be channeled into the Parliament's work, and their opinions can also be heard here. Fortunately, our campaign has found great openness, many young people have taken advantage of this opportunity, partly through leaflets and partly through www.bebikit.hu/hallasdahangod. Now I would like to interpret a bunch of these received opinions between the walls of the Parliament, so that their voices can actually be heard here. Fortunately, there have been so many comments that I still have to continue this series. Let's see what the young people have written. The first and most important thing is to radically reduce the number of lessons and the number of hours required, and also to change the course materials for the transfer of knowledge that can be really used in life. This applies to both primary and secondary schools. In primary schools, much more emphasis should be placed on playful, mobile, practical education. The frontal 45-minute hour is soul-killing at this age. It would also be important to provide business information that helps to avoid dead ends, bad business decisions that can make life miserable and difficult in the long run. Personal development is very important, it would be essential to learn self-knowledge methods..Another opinion:.I would also recommend the introduction of a performance-based scholarship to the university sample in high school, because it would give incredible motivation. *A number of proposals have been submitted by Jobbik in the National Assembly for years. For example, one student wonders if the government would like to do something to improve language education? Unfortunately, I find that after ten years of language education, the school cannot prepare you for a mid-level exam, unless you go to an elite high school, so unfortunately, even after ten years of school learning, you still have to spend 60-80 thousand forints on teachers, books and exams to get the paper that a 3-4 month language course can prepare for, but ten years of language education can't. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Another comment, also a proposal on the curriculum:. There are too many teaching materials, so we are too overwhelmed. In school, there's no way to develop our talent, our personality. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. There has also been comments on the new eating rules introduced recently. This is the quote: Since the introduction of the reform kitchen, food has been inedible! Since salt, sugar and flour are almost no longer in the food, because it is unsanitary, so everything tastes terrible. Sometimes it's hard to decide if we're eating potato soup or bean stew! "It's a student," says a student. One of the following comments is:, To tell teachers what textbooks they can teach is not only my problem, but also the teacher's, but I think that it might be good for them to get to Parliament. They've made a monopoly about it, and it's the state's duty to prevent it. The sluss joke is that these textbooks are teachers, but students think they're worse than the ones that we ordered earlier. in a comment like this, like elsewhere, the equipment is incomplete; there are few projectors, there are rooms where there are no heating or lighting, and the walls are not the most beautiful. The school could use a lime job, not just for hygiene reasons. The gym isn't properly equipped either. I don't even talk about the condition of the toilets! * Many people complained about the overload, the disproportionate hours, the criticism of the timetables. One of the many typical answers: I come from Pilisvörösvár, I have to get up every day at 5:00 to get in at 8:00. I usually only eat a sandwich all day, because I only have 10 and 15 minutes of breaks, so I don't have much time to eat, I get home every night at 5:00, tired, hungry, and I still have to study. It is expected that after school the student should also study at home, which is perfectly normal, but if you have so many classes and so many, it is almost impossible to do well at school. With this number of hours, when a student has an average of eight hours a day, it is impossible to work at all classes with full force, to pay attention, to switch from one hour to another, and by the time you get home, you're exhausted and you don't have the energy to learn any more. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. That's all the quotes that fit into my agenda today. I encourage young people to continue to express their views through www.bábikit.hu/hallasdahangod, and we continue to undertake to interpret their words in the Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-29-337	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 8:28 p.m.]]
