u2016-04-25-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good afternoon. I salute the ladies, gentlemen, colleagues and all those who monitor our work. The 18th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that in the chair of this meeting, Lords Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable will help me. Ladies and gentlemen, On 18 April 2011, the National Assembly adopted the Fundamental Law of Hungary, which was announced on this day five years ago. By adopting the Fundamental Law, he fulfilled the historic duty of the Hungarian Parliament when he replaced his constitution in dictatorship as the last of the countries of the former Communist bloc. However, this duty was also a historical responsibility, since it was the first time that a Parliament with a real democratic mandate formally adopted a new constitution in Hungary. Therefore, the constitutionalist's task and responsibility was not primarily to harmonise the highest standards of state organisation, but rather to give Hungary a constitution that is both modern and yet expresses our national affiliation. It speaks of our past: who we Hungarians are and what keeps us together in our historic country, in the Carpathian Basin or anywhere in the world. It's about our future: the 21st. In view of the challenges of the 20th century, it expresses the need for responsibility and quality of life. As the Fundamental Law testifies about itself: a contract between the past, the present and the Hungarians of the future. The adoption of a new constitution may be accompanied by debates and, of course, by a strong dialogue. At the same time, I think that no one can question the constitutionalist's ambition to give an understandable and acceptable text that allows emotional identification, which is addressed not only to reason but also to the heart. This is what the National Creed, which opens with the first line of Anthem - God, bless the Hungarian! - and the presentation of our historical achievements and our common national values. But the same objective is the understandable language of the Fundamental Law or the structure expressing the values, which, after the National Creed, first contains the Fundamentals and the catalogue of fundamental rights, and only ultimately settles state-organization issues. In addition to the above, the new approach of the Fundamental Law cannot be called into question. The idea of responsibility goes through the text: that the economy is based on value-creating work and the freedom of enterprise; that everyone is responsible for himself; that property involves social responsibility; or that, in addition to parental care, our Fundamental Law sets out that adult children are obliged to care for their parents in need; and, last but not least, our state is responsible for the present and future of indigenous, torn parts of the nation. The other, the whole idea of the text, is the desire for sustainability. The sustainability of the nation with the support of families is understood in this context; economic sustainability with balanced and transparent fiscal management and the protection of national assets; and not least environmental sustainability: conservation of natural resources, biodiversity and water resources, and constitutional protection of agriculture free of genetically modified organisms. Dear fellow Members, I think that over the last five years, it has become clear that, despite the debates, the Fundamental Law is capable of being Hungary's core document, and the above proves that it is worthy of this: its virtues can be considered with recognition after five years. The dictatorship of international socialism was the XX of 1949, with the elimination of our thousand-year historical constitution and the intention of embracing the so-called socialist world system. by law, its fifty years of original text, and then by fundamental amendments in the preparation of the system change for more than two decades, it has contributed directly or metastatically to the maintenance of Communism and post-communism. With the Basic Law adopted on 25 April 2010, we closed Hungary's communist and post-communist period in public law. I trust that Hungary's Fundamental Law, which was adopted with the first democratic mandate and is in line with the thousand-year historical constitution, can serve the Hungarians with its fundamental idea for a long time. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, János Volner, representative of the Jobbik Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech:. How does the Hungarian National Bank manage the public money entrusted to it? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-04-25-1	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, In recent months, there has been a serious debate about whether or not the money placed by the Hungarian National Bank in its own foundations is public money. Obviously, I took the position with my party, Jobbik, that this money is public money, which is why I turned to President János Áder, asking him to send the President of the Republic to the Constitutional Court a bill on the encryption of Hungarian national banking foundations for prior standard control so that this money could continue to be spent in a transparent manner and that the spending of public money could be verified. All our sober warnings have been swept down by the government side, these aspects have not been taken into account, the Constitutional Court has had to be very effective in order on this issue and has practically instructed the government side to adopt a new law on this issue, one that is in line with the spirit of the Fundamental Law mentioned by the President. [[13.10]] I consider it very important that when the central bank accounts for its profits, it should do so in such a way that the interests and intentions of the Hungarian State as owner can prevail on this issue. The Hungarian National Bank can spend hundreds of billions of dollars hiding this control, hiding it from the public, nowhere in Europe, and there has been no precedent. It is very important to say that it is possible to argue in itself how lucky it is that the Hungarian State spends money on education, economic education, various masterpieces of Hungarian architecture or painting in the current situation, but I think it is difficult to doubt that this task is not an activity of the main statutory function of the Hungarian National Bank, so it is neither proper nor professional, if the Hungarian National Bank does finance this activity through its foundations. But it is also worth looking at exactly what the Hungarian National Bank is spending money on, because there are very, very rough details here. It turns out that György Matolcsy's secretary received HUF 70 million of public funding from the Hungarian National Bank for the book of György Matolcsy. [[Rumble in the lines of Jobbik and LMP.]] I would just like to remind you that this HUF 70 million, once again, has gone to the book on the President of the Central Bank and is supporting this book. Lőrinc Mészáros, who now wins several public procurements each week, is the confidential of Viktor Orbán, according to many people Viktor Orbán's land governor and manager of his assets, who received HUF 3.7 billion of the Hungarian National Bank's money. Obviously, there is a question of how you received this money, whether you had to compete, whether there were procurement procedures. In a quote, of course, this is not the case in this case: you just got this money. But it is also interesting that, for example, Mr. Miklós Kásler, himself a member of the Board of Trustees of one of the central bank foundations, received HUF 39 million to publish another book, and this book was supported in this way. Another tickling detail is that President György Matolcsy's cousin himself was involved in this distribution of funds from the central bank, the Vs.hu portal and other newspapers of his interest received half a billion to publish various articles. My fellow Members, I just want to tell you that one of the most read news portals in the Hungarian Internet, Alfa news, has been budgeting for about six to seven years with everything in it from the pay of journalists. In this case, we see that if we look at the scale of this money and why the money goes on to the cousin of the President of the Central Bank, this certainly raises very serious question marks against the government side, which I expect a fair and clear explanation for. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2016-04-25-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. András Tállai, State Secretary, responds on behalf of the government.
u2016-04-25-3	Mr President, Dear Parliament, CXXXIX on the National Bank of Hungary, established in accordance with EU law and approved by the European Central Bank. Law, the so-called MNB Act, regulates the operation of the Hungarian National Bank, while guaranteeing its institutional independence. The MNB Act lays down, in accordance with Article 130 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, that the members of the MNB and its organs are independent in carrying out their duties and duties under the Hungarian National Bank Act, and cannot seek or take instructions from the Government. It also provides that the Government or any other organisation respects this principle and does not attempt to influence the members of the MNB and its organs in the performance of their duties. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Attila Móring József in the notary seat.]] The MNB shall enjoy the right of independence in carrying out all of its tasks under the MNB Act. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank is subject only to the laws, the execution of its tasks as defined in the Act on the National Bank of Hungary, the taking of its professional decisions and its management are independent. In addition to the regular annual reporting obligation laid down in the Fundamental Law, the President of the Hungarian National Bank reports in writing to the Parliament's Standing Committee on Economic Affairs, i.e. the Economic Committee, on a biannual basis under the Act on the National Bank of Hungary. The Hungarian National Bank provides information on its half-year activities in accordance with the annual accounts. The President of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank is obliged to appear and answer a question in the National Assembly on a personal request. The President of the Hungarian National Bank is also obliged to answer a written question. The National Bank of Hungary is controlled by the State Audit Office of Hungary, the audit body under the National Assembly. Paragraph 5 of Article 38 of the Fundamental Law also confirms and states that state-owned enterprises operate independently, independently and responsibly, according to the requirements of legality, expediency and effectiveness. The central bank is therefore self-employed, at all times independent of governments, a national institution which, on the basis of its independence in its management, has the legal opportunity to serve the public good and to provide support as far as possible at the expense of its results. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank property is part of the national property, so it is not the property of the president, it is not the property of the members of the board of directors, it is not the property of the members of the supervisory board, it is not the property of the members of the board of trustees of the foundations, but the property created by the Hungarian National Bank is part of the Hungarian national property. The management of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank is not part of the general government sub-schemes listed in the current Finance Act, so it is not part of the traditional state redistribution. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank's revenues and expenses are therefore not regulated by the current annual budget law, but, as an independent institution, it has its own annual management plan, which is decided by the Board of Directors of the Hungarian Nemzeti Bank. The operation of the Hungarian National Bank is legal and legal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Sallai R. Benedict: Bravo!]] [[13.20]]
u2016-04-25-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, from the Group of the May Other Politics, applied for a pre-meeting speech:. Country without Consequences? How long can Mr. Matolcsy continue to harm taxpayers? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-04-25-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, In the last two years, there has not been a month before the Hungarian National Bank or György Matolcsy came into the spotlight. It began with the fact that the National Assembly could not put on the agenda the report of the former Supervisory Board of the National Bank of Hungary, which was prepared for the activities of the MNB in 2013, of course at the will of the majority of the government. However, in this report, my fellow Members, it has already been mentioned what György Matolcsy is up to. It included buying property, art, sponsoring individuals and civilians in the framework of social responsibility, and even setting up foundations. György Matolcsy laid the foundations for a well-thought-out, step by step diabolical program at the end of 2013. However, what makes this report particularly interesting is that the then supervisory board of the Hungarian National Bank did not agree with consensus, and this programme was strongly criticised. The basis of the criticism was the Central Bank Act, as the law states what the core task of the Hungarian National Bank is and that the source of the social responsibility programme is the fine collected by the Hungarian National Bank. Ladies and gentlemen, At the end of 2014, the fine amounted to HUF 4.4 billion, which is still similar in scale. What a difference it is to spend nearly 10 billion forints in two years or hundreds of billions forints! And what a difference that is for the beneficiaries who can no longer be kept secret! If the majority of the government had accepted and discussed the report of the Supervisory Board of the National Bank of Hungary at the end of 2014, thus considering its comments, it would have been possible to avoid the shameful spending of money on related businesses, subsidies voted for each other, exotic study trips, offshore real estate purchases, office rentals, and who knows what else. All of this is marked by the name of György Matolcsy, but if György Matolcsy does not learn the lesson and resign, then, fellow Members, it is irreparably in the hands of the majority of governments. If they do, they deserve it. Seeing who has benefited from the taxpayers' money - I stress, from public money, and the Curia has said so - I can't stop thinking about the small-money currency-loans, many of whom have lost their heads over the lid. The majority of the government was able to decide unscrupulously that the MNB would forint the currency at the market rate, and on this transaction the Hungarian National Bank won HUF 134 billion. Today we know why. How can they be so selfish and greedy? Do you think that Lőrinc Mészáros, István Garancsi, György Matolcsy's cousin, needs money more than the crooked currency lenders? I have to assume that you already knew what György Matolcsy's social responsibility programme was about in 2014: another means of stealing public money. That's why they didn't allow the report to come before the National Assembly. I was wondering how you could look people in the eye. Of course, it is possible to explain, for example, what a good book chess and poker was, or whether it was really necessary to study in Rwanda, where the individual, whom we do not know who he was, examined the political participation of women, or the study trip in Africa that examined the international political consequences of the Tanzanian elections, and whether it was necessary to translate the book of György Matolcsy into Ukrainian for HUF 10 million. And where was the new supervisory board of the Hungarian National Bank in the meantime? He was silent. Obviously because the Papcsak's salary was raised to HUF 3 and a half million, and they rent him a car for half a million. Dear Parliament, It's time to learn a lesson. There is no question that György Matolcsy will then have to resign, the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank must be abolished, and the National Assembly will call back the Supervisory Board of the Hungarian National Bank and choose a new one according to the previous rule. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-04-25-6	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds to what has been said.
u2016-04-25-7	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, As we've seen, we've heard that after Jobbik, the LMP also launches a political attack. [[Defiance, noise on the opposition side.]] Hungary's independent institution under the Parliament, against the Hungarian National Bank. They talk, they talk, but one violation, one violation, no suspicion of a crime can be said in Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I saw that you were in the room during the speech before the previous agenda, so you could hear my answer. My advice to you is that if that's not enough, then take out the minutes, read what I said to the betterman, and then you'll understand. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-25-8	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, József Tóbias, the leader of the Hungarian Socialist Party, applied for a pre-meeting speech entitled "On Current Affairs." You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2016-04-25-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Fundamental Law was born five years ago. Five years ago, we had a Constitution and a Republic of Hungary. After the last five years, it has turned out that, together with the Constitution, we have lost the state of social law and, together with the Republic, we have lost Hungary's international respect and authority. It has now become clear that the Fundamental Law is prepared and still works for the political and economic elite of Fidesz-KDNP. While stakeholders can celebrate in private on the five-year anniversary, they can also live up to their own power policy. There's nothing to celebrate, because it turns out that their constitution, without consensus five years ago, was not created, but destroyed. The rule of law of the Republic of Hungary has been abolished, the democratic institutional system has been destroyed, the world-view neutrality has been eliminated. It is not that the Fundamental Law is granite, as they themselves have tried to change it five times, in line with their current policy goals. What you are celebrating today will be replaced by society along with you. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Why didn't this happen in 2014?]] Then a new constitution will be put in place, which must be adopted together with the will of society, which is based on justice, which is based on human rights. It must once again be a republic, in which the Constitution must state that everyone has the right to social security, because without legal and life security there is no real rule of law. It's a duty for all of us. In the Republic of Hungary, wherever you are born, you must have equal chances of access to health care, education and knowledge. You can celebrate, although this is more of a tort, because the masses do not celebrate, in their guts and everyday life they feel that their fate is getting worse. Over the last five years, we have come to the conclusion that the state has refused its basic task of social care, spread and increase poverty, and that it is lying about the truth and statistics of all of this, that it completely undermines the rights of local governments, that it destroys public education, and that it punishes the practitioners of civil rights. Not only did he repolitize the system of public administration in its entirety, but he also buried the independent institutions of constitutionality. The Constitutional Court's powers have been limited, and the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, the National Bank of Hungary, has made its nominations one-party. I would like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that my colleague Bertalan Tóth and my colleague Sándor Burány have sued for the classified data that we are talking about here. I very much hope that the joint supervisory board set up by Fidesz-Jobbik will also take its own steps, because in recent months it has not taken any substantive measures. At the same time, you're lying about the central force field as a constitutional. Today, there is no public confidence in these institutions, honourable Members, because they are not for the community, but for the elite. [[13.30]] Meanwhile, people find that what they thought was a rule of law does not work in Hungary. However, we can see that the nation is increasingly speaking out against your laws. They do not listen, because they see that we live today in a country where the rule of law and human rights are despised in the eyes of the holders of power, where the privileged receive the lands of the national community, while the locals are unsatisfying; where there is a $5 million salary for the privileged from our tax forints, and for pensioners there is a 0.9 percent increase in pensions, where the workers create poverty, and you consider it natural that 4 million of our countrymen live in a life crisis in Hungary today. Ladies and gentlemen, The world has never been so unfair in the modern history of Hungary as it has been since Fidesz's Power Policy Handbook, called the Fundamental Law, was adopted and governed. You must understand, you are the only one celebrating, the people have no reason to celebrate. Thank you.
u2016-04-25-10	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, several have indicated that they are happy to respond. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] I give the floor to the Secretary of State, who conveys the government's position.
u2016-04-25-11	Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, the Fundamental Law is five years old, and we all remember well who were sitting here at the time in the benches of this House, the process of adopting the Fundamental Law. To replace a Constitution from party time, which was provisionally settled in 89 to ensure the transition, as Mr. Speaker said here during the morning, the party-state elite must ensure its impunity and the redemption of its assets. This was indeed met by the former constitution, but we are living in a new age, and we had to face new challenges, and along this, we had to create a time-proof Fundamental Law that could bring values such as family and national traditions to the basic law level. For in the liberal world, in the globalizing world, these values almost as if they did not exist, as if they were not worth mentioning. At the same time, we have managed to include values that were not typical at your time, such as the transparency of companies with which the state is contracting, data of public interest, which we are discussing here. This is precisely what the Fundamental Law has allowed us to discuss, and these can be demanded. Or, in response to the national consultation conducted, it was possible to achieve a reduction in public debt, unlike in your time, when it skyrocketed. It is a constitutional requirement for the current government not to increase public debt, nor to build up debts to the detriment of future generations. The spirit of this Fundamental Law, the government's performance, is that inflation has been contained. We don't have to take away the 13th month pension of pensioners today to stabilise the budget. And the fact that the value of pensions can be guaranteed at such a level of inflation, with such an increase, should be welcomed. [[József Tobias: Ask the pensioners!]] Especially if we miss the effects of the reduction of the rent; when you have raised the fees 2-3 times over eight years, or even the current VAT reduction measures, which are also used to protect pensioners, older and poorer layers. We are not talking about VAT reduction tricks, as before the 2006 elections, when you reduced the VAT in February and immediately after the elections. I don't know where they have the moral basis to ask such questions at all. We need to look in the mirror first. They are talking about social rights, education, health care, which they wanted to make pay, and it was the referendum that prevented you from taking away the freeness of these services from the wider masses. There is a complete contradiction in your speeches on these matters. At the same time, if we consider that this Fundamental Law has been able to establish for the future that the Hungarian legal system has been firmly founded for five years, that the separation of powers has been assured, as before, that human rights and the protection of human dignity have also been replaced in the Constitution, discussed by international forums, all of which confirm that the slanders that they are saying in this regard are not correct. Of course, you have the right to debate whether what is contained in this Fundamental Law is favourable to you or not, whether you like it or not. [[Attila Móring József is replaced by Dr. Lajos Szűcs in the notary seat.]] They say the Fundamental Law is going to fail this government. Please, we adopted this Fundamental Law in 2011, it entered into force in 12 and it has been running for five years, and in 2014 there were parliamentary elections, there were municipal elections; all the predictions that were mentioned about them, they would have been able to convince the voters who participated or did not participate in the elections to choose you. Because you would like to receive a constitutional mandate that the majority of the Fidesz-KDNP government received in 2010 and did not receive this constitutional majority or even the majority of the governor. That's what you should be thinking about. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches. Agnes Kunhalmi: You stole the second two thirds.]]
u2016-04-25-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, spoke before the agenda also with the title: "Rescue in the retail trade." You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2016-04-25-13	Mr President, Dear House, Before I get to my point, there is a sentence that the Constitution and the Fundamental Law deserve. We all see that it represents our national values and national sovereignty, as opposed to a globalisation value-neutrality that is, in fact, valueless. And it is also a fact that before this, I mean before the birth of the Constitution, there was consultation, where the Hungarian people gave an opinion. But the most effective of this opinion was in 14 years, three years after the constitution was born, at the vote. On my subject, I have to say, what we all know is that the Hungarian Parliament, by a large majority on a proposal from the government, has abolished the law on the freedom of workers in retail trade. We understand the aspects of the government, we accept Parliament's decision, but we maintain our opinion and our intention to provide some opportunity for freedom of workers. Why did the government decide that? Because there were two referendum initiatives that could have failed, and as a result the much more important referendum on national self-defense and the future of the nation could have been put in jeopardy. You can't afford that from a responsible government. But I just said that we are maintaining our opinion and our proposal, which can now be nothing but remediation. It would be good to reach a consensus on this issue, but given the relationship between employers and workers and the difference of views between opposition parties and the ruling parties, it would be very difficult to reach a consensus. However, listening to each other and taking into account the aspects is not an obstacle. That is why I have had a discussion with three trade unions myself, and I am about to try to explain some of the aspects of the remediation that we need now, perhaps with a sense of humor that they use, with regard to the culture of peaceful disagreement. We must make sure that the labour code is amended to increase the number of Sundays to at least two, when those working in retail cannot be obliged to work. [[13.40]] For the record, in some groups, such as large families, small children, or single educators, perhaps three of these could be favored Sundays. The possibility of volunteering has also been raised by trade unions. Obviously, employers would not be able to achieve this. Most retail workers receive minimum wages, which are quite few, but we see that already multinational companies with labour shortages have proposed, for example, a 16-percent increase. But here we have to remember that not only wages, but wage allowances are important. We also support a 100 percent increase. After the end of Sunday free, the role of labour control is even more important, as we see multinational companies abuse the vulnerable situation of their employees. Therefore, this inspection must be much stricter than before. I should also mention that the various employers' and employee's representatives also included one or two shifts of opening hours. It's worth thinking about, but obviously it depends on the agreement between the two of you. It is absolutely necessary, and we need to talk about what kind of remedial action will follow. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-04-25-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I'll ask if anyone wants to answer on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Secretary of State Cherry.
u2016-04-25-15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, Thank you very much for your speech, because your speech will focus attention on a problem that is waiting for a solution, and we have the forum, we have the council that needs to deal with it, and we will need to propose the best solution to the government or Parliament as far as possible. But even before I tell you what this forum is and what it has done so far, in the last few days, I would like us to look at what has happened in the last year since the introduction of the free Sunday and the impact of this changed situation when the shops can be open again on Sunday; and what tasks need to be solved in order to get back as smoothly as possible to a situation more than a year ago. In parallel with the restoration of the possibility of working in the retail sector on Sunday within the previous framework, the original condition of 14 March 2015 was reconstructed in respect of the amount of the Sunday bonus, so that nothing else happened, so that the situation from which we started with the introduction of the free Sunday was restored. The special situation has ceased to exist that the shops concerned had to be closed on Sunday, and only exceptionally, they could open up to five Sundays a year. At the same time, the duality that lasted for a year was eliminated, namely that where the opening hours were limited, there was 100 percent, while where Sunday opening hours were not restricted, there was 50 percent on Sunday. It should be borne in mind that the sellers of shops in petrol stations, markets and waiting rooms or, for example, those working in florists have been entitled to a 50 per cent allowance over the past year, i.e. not 100 per cent on Sunday. We need to see that the government's ideas of limiting work on Sunday have, on the other hand, been achieved from the economic side. According to KSH data, while the number of people employed in retail sales increased in 2015, the number of people working on Sundays decreased by 65 thousand on a regular or occasional basis, and as a result their proportion decreased from 38 per cent to 20 per cent, so it basically halved. It also seems that fewer people worked in the other sectors last Sundays, as last year, the number of people doing Sunday work decreased by 110,000 people at national level, of which, as I mentioned earlier, 65 thousand occurred in the retail trade. The reopening of shops will give us the opportunity to consider the amount of the Sunday bonus. As we have made clear a number of times in recent days, the government is open to discussion on the issue of wage replacements on Sunday, with interest organisations - I stress: with representative organisations - i.e. employers' and employees' representatives, this dialogue can be said to have begun, since the first agenda of this kind has been discussed in the monitoring committee of the competition sphere and the Permanent Consultation Forum of the Government. The first points have been raised, the first ideas and proposals have been made, and we have already discussed this. So it can be said that in this forum, within the framework of the monitoring committee, the issue of the supplement for Sunday work can be reviewed, not only in the retail sector, but also in the other sectors of the national economy. This work has started and is expected to continue, probably not in one, but in several rounds, because, as you mentioned in your speech, there will be debate and debate in this regard, but, of course, at the end of a good debate and a meaningful debate, we will certainly find a solution. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-04-25-16	Thank you, Secretary of State Cseresnyés. Dear Parliament, István Szilárd Németh, representative of the Fidesz Group, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-04-25-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, A few weeks ago, at the meeting of the National Security Committee, I initiated the publication by the Constitutional Security Office of studies that Political Capital had prepared for civilian response during the Gyurcsány government. Now that's what happened. Contracts, studies and certificates of performance are also available to all on the website of the Constitutional Protection Office. Ferenc Gyurcsány's favourite political advisor received a commission of nearly half a billion forints between 2006-2010, of which 190 million for studies for the National Security Office alone. As vice-president of the committee, I proposed the publication of the studies written by Political Capital to the National Security Office in order to finally find out what the company's special knowledge was needed to write studies; why these studies had to be classified as strictly secret, and especially important; and what they spent 190 million forints of public money. [[Dr. András Schiffer's intervention.]] All this by not only the Political Capital, but none of the authors of the studies were screened by the National Security Agency during that period. According to the report of László Balajti, then Director General of the National Security Office, the following indications fit for these services: incomplete performance, deadline overshoot, political elements. According to the Magyar Times, the report also states that the analyses and reports did not reach the relevant departments in many cases, and most of them did not even know that there was cooperation in the field with an external, special-knowledged company. According to the article, the question of the disproportionate provision of services between the company and the agency was raised several times in 2007. [[Dr. András Schiffer: You've been in government for six years...]] Allow me to mention some more recent information. The latest news is that the relationship between the National Security Agency and Political Capital was held by László Földesi-Szabó, who was sentenced to six years in prison for embezzlement and smuggling and was released with relief last year. [[György Szilágyi: Closed session...]] In fact, according to the article of the Hungarian Times, Földesi-Szabó recommended Political Capital to the National Security Agency. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches.]] to carry out information-gathering activities. [[György Szilágyi: Wow!]] In addition, at the beginning of the cooperation, this activity was paid from a special operational framework of the National Security Office. In 2010, the National Security Committee examined this abuse. [[The intervention of György Szilágyi.]] a free Democrat and a socialist politician were involved in the preparation of the report closing it. [[13.50]] According to their report at the time, there was also an example of 20 million forints being handed over in cash to the middleman, László Földesi-Szabó, before completing the work. The advisory firm disputes this claim and the fact that it would have entered into contractual or other economic and financial relations with László Földesi-Szabó. Dear Secretary of State, The fact that the Gyurcsánys used the secret services for the protection of the Hungarian state and the Hungarian people as paying places is absolutely outrageous. Although Ferenc Gyurcsány stated in the case that he did not give instructions to destroy the studies, there is strong suspicion that this does not cover reality, and at present we are only seeing the tip of the iceberg. Hungarian Times recently reported that left-wing governments spent at least HUF 17 billion in public money between 2006 and 2010 on public opinion research, communication and study assignments and advice. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Not in a year, but in eight years.]] Moreover, this amount does not include, for example, the billions of Socialists paid for advertising costs, which is also several times more than the current government spends for this purpose. On my initiative, the National Security Committee has already ordered a fact-finding investigation into the handling of the secret service in Gyurcsány as a paying place. However, in terms of the above, it is of particular importance to know what the government's position is on the publicity of billion-dollar studies and what measures the government is taking to make sure that all such studies, if any, can be found. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-25-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Károly Kontra will respond to what has been said.
u2016-04-25-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As you mentioned, the Constitutional Protection Office has recently published studies commissioned by the National Security Office at the time of previous left-wing governments from Political Capital. As is known, the company received orders of 190 million HUF in order only during this period, so only from this office. Political Capital, among other things, gave communication advice to the National Security Office at the time, but also made suggestions on image design. You have the right to ask, Honourable Parliament, what is needed by an office whose activities are, by the way, discretion, image enhancement or image enhancement. The answer is nothing. Dear Parliament, These studies were commissioned by the National Security Agency as a secret service, we believe that the basic image of a secret service is secret. We do not know such image-enhancing activities or practices with regard to other secret services. This was a wrong decision by the then National Security Office, which was liquidated in 2010. Studies carried out by the company have sometimes made unnecessary and frivolous proposals, and the main part of the studies is press monitoring, and there are frequent repetitions of the content. There would be a number of reasons for a source designation for some substances, however, there are no references. In addition, a significant part of the analysis also raises the reasons why they had to be outsourced, since the full-time staff of the Office would have been able to carry out such tasks. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Allow me to mention some specific examples. The communication plan for the National Security Office in 2009 was proposed in relation to the yearbook of the National Security Office, among other things, that it should be enriched with images, and I quote: "You should also include more tabular news; and I quote: "You should print it on better quality paper." But as another tool of the National Security Office's image change, it was recommended that the Office organize a social benefit - a well-heard, a charity ball - to ensure its appearance in the tabloid press. Good afternoon. On this basis, neither the client nor the consulting firm seemed to take the order seriously. The National Security Committee of the National Assembly decided last week that a fact-finding committee would examine the contracts between Political Capital and the National Security Office. According to the decision, not only will it be necessary to learn about the materials that the Constitutional Protection Office has abolished, but also to consult other documents. The Committee will provide information on the outcome of the investigation. So, honourable Member, the answer is that the government's position is that these documents, these documents, must be known. Honourable Congressman, The Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments have paid serious amounts for similar orders to other companies. In the period 2006-2010 alone, at least HUF 17 billion was reportedly spent on advisory contracts, and the majority of the money went to ten groups of companies. The Government will examine the legality of these payments and will also examine whether they have been implemented at all. In many cases, studies on which payments are based do not exist, or even suspect that these studies have not yet been completed. Honourable Congressman, I can tell you that if investigations establish a violation of the law, the government will immediately take the necessary legal action. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-25-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2016-04-25-21	Dear Parliament, Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: Gergely Farkas, Jobbik; Előd Novák, Jobbik; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP. On Tuesday's day, the following representatives came forward before the agenda: Mr Benedek Sallai, Mr LMP; Mr Bertalan Tóth, Mr MSZP; Mr Zoltán Magyar, Mr Jobbik; Mr István Hollik, Mr KDNP; Mr Lajos Kósa, Mr Fidesz. On Tuesday he applied for a speech after the agenda: Balázs Ander, Jobbik; László Lukács, Jobbik; Tibor Bana, Jobbik, Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP. On Wednesday he applied for a speech after the agenda: Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik.
u2016-04-25-22	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time shall be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Please take your seats and check that your card has been placed in the voting machine. Dear Parliament, Parliamentary resolution on certain house rules 37. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, Parliament may decide to negotiate certain items of the agenda in a time-frame. The proposal put forward by the President initiates the proposal of the V/9837 on the present and future of Hungarian healthcare. The Parliament will discuss the number 1 proposal in a four-hour time frame. The agenda recommendation shall include a time frame allocation. At the request of the Group of Fidesz, MSZP, Jobbik, KDNP and five independent Members, the decision on the individual house rules shall be adopted in accordance with Article 37. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the time frame available to political groups and independent representatives will be doubled in the event of the adoption of a time-frame negotiation. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the motion to split the time frame.
u2016-04-25-23	Dear Parliament, The distribution of the proposed timeframe is as follows: 82 minutes for the Fidesz Group, with a doubling of which in total 164 minutes; 46 minutes for the MSZP Group, with a doubling of which it initiated, i.e. a total of 92 minutes; 41 minutes for the Jobbik Group, a total of 82 minutes; 38 minutes for the KDNP Group, a total of 76 minutes; 24 minutes for the LMP Group; 9 minutes for the independent Members whose doubling was initiated, i.e. a total of 18 minutes. The time limits provided for the factions include the 15-15 minutes lead speakers. [[14.00]]
u2016-04-25-24	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I would therefore like to ask the honourable Parliament whether it agrees that the presentation will be discussed within a time frame, as requested by the notary and modified by the Fidesz, the MSZP, Jobbik, KDNP and the independent Members. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the hearing of the proposal in the timeframe by 119 votes in favour, 22 against, 12 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The proposal put forward by the President initiates V/10090 on the use of EU funds for Hungary for the period 2007-2013. The Parliament shall discuss a proposal with a serial number in a four-hour time frame. The agenda recommendation shall include a time frame allocation. At the request of five independent Members, the decision on certain house rules shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 37. Paragraph 4 of the Act provides that the time frame available to independent Members will be doubled in the event of the adoption of a time-frame negotiation. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the motion to split the time frame.
u2016-04-25-25	Dear Parliament, The distribution of the proposed timeframe is as follows: 82 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 46 minutes for the MSZP Group, 41 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 38 minutes for the KDNP Group, 24 minutes for the LMP Group and 9 minutes for the independent Members, with a doubling of which a total of 18 minutes is available. The time limits provided for the factions include the 15-15 minutes lead speakers.
u2016-04-25-26	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees that the proposal will be discussed within the time frame described by the notary and modified on the basis of the request of independent Members. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: by 117 votes in favour, 23 against and 12 abstentions, the Parliament accepted the hearing of the proposal in the time frame. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on proposals to amend the agenda proposal. The Fidesz Group has proposed that the 2012 CLIX on postal services be held today at the National Assembly. T/9785. T/10092 on the state project evaluation status and on the amendment of certain related laws to discuss the Commission reports and the summary amendment proposal of the Bill No. Following the discussion of the Commission's reports and the summary amendment proposed by the legislative proposal No. Anyone who agrees with that, vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group has proposed that the T/10267 on state officials The general discussion of the legislative proposal with serial numbers shall take place as the last item on the agenda of the Parliament's meeting on Wednesday until the closure. Anyone who agrees with that, vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group has proposed that T/10311 on the amendment of certain national defence laws The general debate of the legislative proposal with serial numbers shall take place on the day of the Parliament's meeting as the last item on the agenda until the closure. Anyone who agrees with that, vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group proposed that the 2012 XLI on passenger transport services. T/10297 amending Act No. V/9837 on the present and future of Hungarian healthcare until the closure of the general debate of the bill No. V/9837 on tomorrow's meeting of the Parliament on the present and future of Hungarian healthcare. It shall take place after a political debate with a serial number. Followed by T/10312 on the announcement of the Air Transport Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Kingdom of Bahrain Proposal for a Law No 1 and the 2007 LX on the Implementation Framework for the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and its Kyoto Protocol. Act CCXVII of 2012 on the participation of the Community greenhouse gas trading system and the implementation of the effort-sharing decision. T/10314. General discussion of the legislative proposal No. No. 1 until closure. Anyone who understands that and agrees to that should vote for a raise of hands. [[Defiance. György Balla: The opposition did not understand! Dr. Agnes Vadai: We understand! Noise. Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, A decision on a personal proposal will not take place today. Now, at 2:08 p.m., we're going to proceed to the discussion of interpellations, immediate questions. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the Speaker of Parliament is the Rules of Procedure 121. Under the authority of paragraph 4 (a) of Section 4 of the Act, Hungarian MP Zoltán K/10201. He rejected his written question to the Minister of Agriculture, as the motion does not fall within the minister's remit. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Kész, an independent representative and Zoltán Gőgös, a representative of the MSZP, submitted a joint interpellation to the Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister:. In accordance with his statement on the abolition of the Sunday store lock, do they listen to the people in connection with stadium constructions and stop the waste of public money on these pointless, unsustainable, ferocious projects? It's an address. The chairman of the meeting shall give the floor to the interpellling, faction-related representative to express the interpellation, if, however, he gives this right to the independent representative. [[I'll give it to you.]] then, of course, Zoltán Kész, the independent Member, will tell you the text of the interpellation. [[Zoltán Haughty says yes.]] It says, "Yes, Your Highness." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-04-25-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The government ran away on Sunday's closing issue, cowardly trying to avoid Hungarian people speaking in a referendum about the Fidesz-KDNP government coalition. [[14.10]] They are obviously terrified of Hungarian voters, afraid of people's will. I'd like to know if the government is going to come to a much better understanding of the pointless construction of stadiums. Dear Secretary of State, Your minister justified the termination of Sunday's mandatory closure by listening to the people's voice. Your boss, Prime Minister Árpád Habony, can't have a sharp ear if it took a year to hear the demand of the vast majority of voters. The question now is: are they really doing their job together with the people, hearing the majority will, or was the removal of the locker just a cowardly run? Will they also hear that the majority are tired of selling out Hungarian land under dubious circumstances? Can you hear that people are outraged by the brazen salaries of state leaders, that, for example, a postman earns 2% of what he earns 50 times as much as the CEO? Will he also hear that people are sick of the government spending a lot of money building stadiums? The self-serving mania of the stadium government is not only meaningless but also harmful. The Orbán-Habony regime is expected to spend HUF 300 billion by the end of 2018 to build a total of football fields, which will cost taxpayers tens of billion forints per year to maintain in the future, as the costs of large facilities are not expected to be generated by owners and teams based on past experience. The Hungarian citizens are also aware of this, who want quality education and health care instead of visual investment, and decent pay for doctors and teachers. Research and other surveys commissioned by the stadium government from Századvég clearly confirm that the majority does not want any more of the stadium constructions. However, unnecessary construction continues. Why do they go against the will of the people? Is this just to pay one percent of their vassals so they can fill their friendly pockets? Most of Hungary has had enough of this, so it is time for the government to stop supporting unnecessary investments. I understand that Antal Rogán, Minister of Propaganda, is a coward to answer the question at work as a Member of Parliament. [[An uproar in the pro-government benches.]] However, I ask the Secretary of State: according to his statement on the abolition of the store on Sunday, do you listen to the people in connection with stadium constructions and stop waste of public money on these pointless, unsustainable, barren projects? Thank you very much.
u2016-04-25-28	Thank you, Congressman Készt Zoltán. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2016-04-25-29	Honourable Congressman, Allow me to begin with a quote. The quote begins with: in Hungary there is currently no and with the closure of the stadium reconstruction program there will be no UEFA-licences stadium. In our vision, it is very important that Hungary has three to four or five such stadiums, so that we can serve the facilities that are important for football. A few years ago, these sentences were spoken here in the House, they were told by a Secretary of State for Sport, Attila Mesterházy. He's sitting right there in that MSZP that supports you. [[Noise, interruptions.]] It is also a striking fact that in 2007 the left-wing government supported the next soccer-Eb competition and promised support for the stadium development program. It is therefore clear that, under its governance, the left considered these investments to be important, and now it is taking a completely opposite position because of the political struggle. By the way, you are free to do so, now you can applaud the opposite position, but you are still a hypocrite. Allow me to say that what is currently going on in Hungary is not a narrow development of stadiums, but the biggest initiative for the development of sports facilities in recent decades. It is a basic condition of civil Hungary, because it is a prerequisite that Hungarians are suitable, XXI. They can play sports under centuries of age. This applies not only to top sports, but also to mass sports and recreational sports. Honourable Congressman, That's why hundreds of sports facilities are being renewed across the country. That's why there's gonna be a swimming pool in every walk, and that's why there's a lot of new gymnasiums. We believe that renewable sports facilities can help more people to play sports. You are a young Member, perhaps you do not dispute the importance of the increase in the number of certified, replacement athletes in the country by more than 100,000 in recent years. In recent months, this House has seemed to me that the left-wing one is also concerned with the situation of Hungarian health care. It is also good news for them that the next year's budget will contain hundreds of billions of additional resources, and if the health situation really concerns the left, then perhaps you should not be indifferent to the number of people playing sports in this country. Sport, in addition to contributing to our national pride, is one guarantee of a healthy life. A life - style rich in movement can also greatly reduce future health costs. Honourable Congressman, We regret the fact that the aspects of a clear political struggle are such that they ignore this at all, if we are to preserve the health of future generations, then we also need the right level of sport facilities. That's what the government's sports facility development program is all about. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-25-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman Zoltán Gőgös if they will accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2016-04-25-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, the truth is that the problem is not that they want to raise you to a healthy lifestyle, but that they missed the order. We may have talked about the need for stadiums in 2002, but first we gave 50 percent wage increases in health care and education. [[Uproar, interrogations from the ranks of the parties of the period, including: Then you took a monthly wage.]] If you do this now, no one will argue about how public money will be spent afterwards. [[Noise, interrogations from the pro-government benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] So, Mr. Secretary, the problem with you is that you consider constructions more important than people's health. We can't accept the answer.
u2016-04-25-32	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the Parliament if they'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 112 votes in favour, 41 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the Honourable National Assembly that by saying the previous interpellation, [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly Law 42. § (1) and 2/2014. On the basis of the resolution of the Committee of the Houses of the European Union of 1 July 2009, the possibility of interpelling independent representatives once a month during the ordinary session was used in the previous month in April. Dear Parliament, Márton Gyöngyösi, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:, Is it a national security risk if the family member of the Prime Minister of a country and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are dealing with terrorists? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, the Interpellation will be answered at the request of Mr.Csaba Dömötör, Minister of State, Head of Prime Minister Antal Rogán's Cabinet Office with responsibility and competence. You have the floor, Congressman Gyöngyösi.
u2016-04-25-33	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, On the part of the pro-government politicians, there is an embarrassing silence surrounding the fact that, more than two weeks ago, Viktor Orbán and a Saudi oil magnate Ghaith Pharaon appeared near the government, one of the ten most wanted white-collar criminals in the world in 2008 by Forbes magazine. [[There's an uproar in the opposition benches.]] ; who was also wanted by the FBI for the overthrow of American financial institutions with an interest in money laundering and the financing of arms trafficking; and who, according to a 2002 French parliamentary report, is associated with the Islamic financial network, Havala, also used by terrorist organisations. Dear Secretary of State, The fact that János Halász, spokesperson of Fidesz, was unable to respond substantially to our questions about the Pharaon case, and after some smearing, he began to forge, surprised a few of us. However, at the usual Thursday press conference one week after the scandal started, János Lázár said that he did not even know Ghaith Pharaon's name was quite surprising. János Lázár has the authority to manage the Intelligence Information Office, so it is quite spicy that he has never heard of Pharaon, previously wanted by the FBI. Dear Secretary of State, Pharaon contacted Viktor Orbán's son-in-law, István Tiborcz, with the former Postabank headquarters. Although BDPST is a real estate distributor and Investor Zrt. can't find the name of Tiborcz, but indicates his involvement with BDPST Zrt. At the time of his development, he paid the mandatory fee, and the company's legal affairs are handled by Endre Hamar's law firm. He directed Elios Zrt., which was also linked to Tiborcz. billion-dollar public procurement proposals. [[14.20]] But he also owned a joint venture with Tiborcz Hamar & Tiborcz Consulting Ltd. under the heading "Absolutely'. Pharaon was not only related to Viktor Orbán's relative, but also to the Hungarian government. In December 2015, Prominence Food Zrt., specialized in food wholesale, was registered in which one of Pharaon's companies was joined by the Hungarian National Trading House, which was supervised by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. [[Intercoms in Jobbik's benches.]] Dear Secretary of State, While the two ministries of the Orbán government are trying to limit the most fundamental freedoms on the grounds of terrorism, is Orbán's son-in-law and Minister of Foreign Affairs dealing with terrorists? How credible is the Orbán government's counter-terrorist and foreign minister's Eastern opening policy? Do you think that the direct business relationship between Orbán's family and minister, who are wanted by the FBI, is a national security risk to our country? [[Moore in the benches of MSZP and Jobbik.]] Don't you think Orbán will be blackmailed? How can the Hungarian people trust the government's counterterrorism capabilities if the minister of the IH, János Lázár, has not even heard the name Pharaon? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik and MSZP.]]
u2016-04-25-34	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör.
u2016-04-25-35	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, You spoke of national security risks, and I understand you're questioning the credibility of the government's anti-terrorist measures. I would like to assure you that the Hungarian authorities and the services required to do so are constantly monitoring all events affecting the safety of everyday life. [[Intercoms in Jobbik's benches.]] You also referred to the government's anti-terror laws package. The aim of this is precisely to strengthen the government's assets in this area, and in this respect it is an important circumstance, since it is about freedoms, that the government does not ask for anything more or less than what is available in other Member States. [[Constant interruptions from Jobbik's benches.]] You are questioning the abilities of the Hungarian authorities, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that due to the great performance of the Hungarian authorities, there have been no serious incidents in Hungary in recent months such as Paris or Brussels. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Na, na, na, na! An uproar in the benches of the governing parties. Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes again.]] The Hungarian authorities have done their best to ensure the safety of Hungarian families. You just called attention to security risks. He did so by calling the Iranian Revolutionary Guard to Hungary as an election observer in 2010 by Jobbik. This is not so surprising, by the way, from a party whose president previously said that Islam is the last hope of mankind. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Answer me! Answer me!]] For this reason, I find it particularly absurd when a better politician asks the government to enforce security aspects. [[Constant interruptions from Jobbik benches and Dr. Agnes Vadai.]] By the way, in your speeches, you have consistently dealt with the family members of politicians when they throw all kinds of contexts; in fact, I think they start from their own practice. Out of the eight-member presidency of Jobbik, money has come to be related to seven: they have obtained a position in the party, or they have obtained some position or money in the party, in organizations associated with them. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Where is the answer? György Szilágyi: Where is the answer? Dr. György Bárándy: You have two minutes to answer.]] Whose wife, whose brother, whose father. It's no coincidence that there's been a serious settlement dispute within Jobbik over the last few days. In particular, the government does not want to comment on this, but we would like to ask one thing: do not argue that the law enforcement agencies responsible for the protection of the country are doing their job professionally. Thank you for your attention. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Where is the answer? Interviews from Jobbik's benches: Where is the answer? Applause in the benches of the governing parties. A voice from the ranks of Fidesz: That's the answer! Dániel Z. Carpathian: Thank you for the confession!]]
u2016-04-25-36	Thank you. I will ask Congressman Gyöngyösi if he will accept the State Secretary's reply. [[It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2016-04-25-37	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, You are already saying a lot about the weight of this question in itself, that on a matter that directly affects Viktor Orbán and his family, on a matter that directly affects the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, on a matter that directly affects the Prime Minister's Ministry and his wallet, you are sitting in the ministerial seat for government propaganda, for reasons of intelligence. [[Dr. András Schiffer: That's right!]] and you will be signed to answer this question. [[Interjection and sporadic applause in the benches of Jobbik: That's right!]] [[Dr. András Schiffer: That's right!]] (Interjection and sporadic applause in Jobbik's benches: That's right!) You talk for two and a half minutes about all sorts of things that the sky has nothing to do with in a given world (Dr. András Schiffer: That's right!) To the question I've asked you here. I know you could use half of them. I know that you can fit in abundantly with the government you've been conducting here for the past six years. But here I have asked questions in which you even beat the MSZP in corruption, and you are not only in corruption [[Intercoms and noise in the pro-government benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] they represent a huge risk and moral hazard to this country, but they also represent a national security risk. [[The president's ringing several times.]] Thank you very much. [[Great applause and interrogations in the benches of Jobbik: That's right!]]
u2016-04-25-38	The congressman didn't accept the answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 109 votes in favour, 35 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck and R. Benedek Sallai, representatives of the LMP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:. The government in the pocket of pesticide manufacturers/distributors, or just another professional incompetence? It's an address. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek has the floor.
u2016-04-25-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The next interpellation will be why Sándor Fazekas avoids Parliament, and why he does not come in for such embarrassing answers, why he sends his secretary of state when when he makes decisions, he should stand up here. It is the fifth anniversary of the Fundamental Law, and the Fundamental Law XX. Article 2 of the Act states that everyone has the right to physical and mental health. I believe that the Hungarian Parliament can accept this regardless of parties or ideology. CHAPTER XXI Article 2 also states that Hungary recognises and enforces everyone's right to a healthy environment. Obviously, if we mention these articles on the anniversary, we may wonder what the government has done in the last five years, since the birth of the Fundamental Law. Unfortunately, it is necessary to see that despite Hungary's GMO-free status in the Fundamental Law, trading on genetically manipulated organisms is here in our daily lives, in Hungary both in feed and in seeds. Obviously, this is because, in recent times, there have been several cases where the Hungarian government seemed to represent the interests of the giant company Monsanto rather than the interests of the Hungarian citizens. [[Dr. András Schiffer: That's right!]] That's how the Neonics... [[Defiance. The congressman has several hands on the sentence.]] So is this neonicotinoids... [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I commend it to the attention of my fellow Members: the authorisation of bee killer plant protection products called neonicotinoids in Hungary is now authorised by the Hungarian government after the EU ban. In the same way, the Hungarian government also contributes to the authorisation of a total herbalicide for genetically resistant plants containing active substances known as glyphosate. It is obvious that if these authorisations violate the health of Hungarian people at some level, then how can the point of the Hungarian Fundamental Law, which the XXVI. Article 1 states that the Hungarian State is seeking to apply new technical solutions and the results of science. These substances were clearly identified and demonstrated by the international agency that they were directly harmful to health and carcinogenic. Obviously, this is why the question arises: if we can provide scientific evidence that they have no place in Hungarian agriculture, then why does the Hungarian government take Monsanto's side against the health of Hungarian people? What is the reason why, whether it is seed or a plant protection product, the government is increasingly trying to protect its own Fundamental Law in this regard? That is what I would like to hear from the Secretary of State. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-25-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Before I give the floor to Mr István Nagy State Secretary, Congressman [[Talking to Sallai R. Benedict:]] Congressman Sallai, I ask for the authenticity of the protocol, am I right: neonicotine? [[Sallai R. Benedict; without sound: Neonicotinoid.]] Okay, so that's what you heard. [[Defiance.]] Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy. [[14.30]]
u2016-04-25-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Allow me to express my answer not only as Parliamentary Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture, but also as a practicing beekeeper. I very much hope that, as a practicing beekeeper, the answer that the scientific institutes' research will provide will be acceptable to you. As of December 2013, the European Commission has limited the use of three pesticides, clothianidin, thiamethoxam and iidacloprid, as the European Food Safety Agency has concluded that their use as bait for bees may pose a risk based on available studies. Based on the principle of caution, further studies are necessary to close the sale and evaluation of the group of active substances. The active substances have not been banned in the European Union but have been suspended until further studies have been carried out and a final decision has been taken at European level. The active substances continue to be employed and authorised throughout Europe in certain cultures and periods - after blooming in autumn wheat or fruity. Hungary has implemented the EU's decision on limited use and has not issued any authorisation for use for two years. On the other hand, several EU Member States have already issued an emergency permit after the restrictions were imposed, including Finland and Denmark, which are at the forefront of environmental protection. In addition, Estonia, Bulgaria and the United Kingdom with one of the strongest plant protection authorities issued an emergency permit. Since the suspension of the use of neonicotinoid agents, no new information has emerged that would have improved the uterine health situation due to the restrictions. On the other hand, the only spectacular effect of the restrictions was - and I would very much ask my fellow Members to pay attention to this - that there was a significant increase in the turnover of the substances used for stock management and soil disinfection. So a measure has caused much more damage than if we had allowed that drug to continue. The National Food Chain Safety Office has decided against your claim on the precautionary principle and on the basis of experience when, after the two-year moratorium, it has allowed the use of active substances which have not had positive consequences for producers or beekeepers in a limited area. An emergency permit shall cover the application of the active substances by churning in a limited area and shall cover only seed production and only a tenth of the area covered by maize and sunflower crops. Obviously, we know corn doesn't care about bees, but sunflowers do. The proper use of plant protection products, the reduction of risks and, under plant health supervision, the rejection of seed by the plant protection products should not lead to bee mortality. Bee mortality did not occur when these drugs were used on hundreds of thousands of hectares. It is in the common interest of beekeepers and producers to have a healthy, prosperous crop. With this in mind, the Authority shall issue only authorisations which, when complying with its requirements, do not cause harm to bees as a result of the treatments. In the case of bee poisoning resulting from irregular use, proceedings shall be initiated and fines may be imposed in the event of evidence and compensation may be made. The authority cooperates with the Hungarian Association of Bees and informs the exact location of the areas after the plantings have been completed. I would just like to inform you, my dear fellow Member, Monsanto was the company that the Hungarian Government has sued in relation to Monsanto maize seed, and it has won this lawsuit. Please accept my reply. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-25-42	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2016-04-25-43	This cannot be accepted, because what has happened is that the Secretary of State has now acknowledged that he represents Monsanto's interests. Now, when you said that you wanted to allow this in seed areas, and we know that 70 percent of Hungary's seed is marketed by three companies, and the second of which is Monsanto, it is obviously in his interests alone. That's why you can't accept it. It cannot be accepted that if the World Health Organisation notes in its resolution that another substance, glyphosate, is guaranteed to lead to a variety of cancers, Hungary is not trying to prevent European authorisation and thus to prevent the spread of GMO-resistant plants from spreading at some level, this is unacceptable. I understood the answer, and it was absolutely clear: this means that the Hungarian government is more interested in Monsanto than in the health of Hungarian citizens. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-25-44	Thank you. So you didn't accept the answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether they will accept the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 111 votes in favour, 36 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Mónika Dunai, Member of the Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. The situation at Teleki Blanka High School is tense until acne? It's an address. Congresswoman Mónika Dunai has the floor.
u2016-04-25-45	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, As a teacher, as a parent, he knows how hard the atmosphere of the institution can be burdened by the conflict between leaders and underage teachers or educators. The conditions for effective teaching, the proper attention to children, the work, the proper cooperation of the educational bodies and the loss of trust will be removed. Anyone who has worked in a place where management has intimidated, removed or disabled critics, drove a wedge between employees, inciting an internal war, knows that such an organization is already unable to achieve results in the short term, especially if half of the staff have been replaced in a few years, or if students leave school before graduation due to the insatiable situation. Any worker may have reason to be alarmed by persistent existential threats and associated driving pressure. It is incompatible with the culture of leadership to create such an atmosphere. Ladies and gentlemen, The teacher whose stomach is cramped, the way he meets his superior every day, is unable to teach properly. According to the news, the situation at Teleki is tense. There is reason to believe that the teachers who left voluntarily gave up their breadmaking for good reason. Residents recently voted against former colleagues, in order to protect the authority of the school, under the leadership of the institution, accompanied by threats and divisive statements. We're right, we're not, we don't know. All we know is that this is not what parents expect from the school, and the state of affairs is threatening the interests of the students. And that's the point where the competent superintendent organization can't just stand by and watch the school go down professionally and the board gets crushed. Dear Secretary of State, Are you initiating an investigation of the conditions at school and the large-scale departure of teachers? One of the school's former teachers said that the head of the institution terrorizes those who do not agree with him. When he voted for the board, his deputy also made an emotionally blackmailing statement, according to the news. All forms of violence are unacceptable. Spiritual terror is suitable for the physical, mental, existential destruction of people. Dear Secretary of State, Will the reality of this statement be examined? What can one expect from whom such accusations prove to be justified? Dear Secretary of State, I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-25-46	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. [[14.40]]
u2016-04-25-47	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, What you said was an older process, since 46 teachers are currently working at Teleki Blanka High School, but since 2013, 36 people's overall employment has ceased. This also shows the conditions that are obviously some kind of driving problem there. At the same time, I also believe that it is chatty that, although last week's strike by the Teachers' Union took place in Hungary, I think there were far fewer people who joined it than the union expected, since four out of five teachers worked, took the job, and chose students instead of politics. It is clear that if everyday politics and current political issues sneak into the walls of a school, everyday life, then what this means for the future of the school, how much more difficult it is for students there to be in a situation where, if they are put before political decisions every day, they will be used every week as a political tool to achieve political goals. At the same time, the fact that no speech by the opposition after the educator strike speaks either on education or on strike issues shows that this process is now in a direction that shows where, in what direction progress will be, how progress will be made, how the future of public education will develop in the coming months and years. Luckily, therefore, fewer and fewer people see political capital in this, so there may be a greater opportunity to negotiate under peaceful conditions, and perhaps those who have stayed away from the negotiations will sit at the negotiating table, as they can see that by expanding the political sails they can no longer advance here. For schools, predictability, tranquility and security are important, the school is the scene of learning, not the political battlefield, where political battles can be fought between children from week to week. The National Public Education Act also states that there is no political institution in the premises of an educational institution, no place for continuous operation, no place for administration, and no political activity in the course of teaching. Anyone who had a professional suggestion always had a place in the public education round table and in their working groups. A total of 66 organisations have participated in the work so far, and up to now 243 teachers, academics, institutions and leaders have participated in this work; overall, there have been more than 30 meetings of the Round Table itself and of the working groups. And from this work there is now a clear vision of the future, because the round table has not only dealt with the fact that this HUF 38 billion, which was necessary for the debt settlement of the KLIK, was provided for the budget on a proposal from the Public Education Round Table, but also the question of teachers seven years ahead of retirement, in which there is also a proposal for the round table, the teacher II. in connection with their automatic inclusion in grade II; the temporary educator II. a permanent qualification for those who have received a qualification; for teachers to extend their relationship to the end of the given period of education when they retire, in the interests of children, if a teacher reaches retirement age on, say, 5 May, he can carry his own class or students further until the end of that period. In order to reduce the administrative burden on certification to one third, not one third, an agreement has also been reached, but an instruction has already come out. It was also agreed that if someone was qualified, he would not be subject to school supervision for three years. In addition, teachers have increased their wages by 40% since 2013. The money that was withdrawn from education by the socialists was constantly replaced by the government. The teacher's wage increase will continue again this year, next year, this year's extra allowance and next year's salary increase will be given to teachers who have no education. There are also ongoing negotiations on how nearly a hundred billion extra resources of institution-keeping can be used. I ask Congresswoman to accept my answer. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-25-48	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I ask Mrs Mónika Dunai whether she accepts the State Secretary's reply.
u2016-04-25-49	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I respectfully accept your answer. I request that the portfolio continue to negotiate so carefully with the invited partner organisations at the national roundtable negotiations, and continue to take into account the opinion of teachers. And thank you for giving children a great deal of help in the fact that in school, even at Teleki Blanka High School, children can be the first and not party politics. Thank you very much, I accept the answer. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-25-50	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Tamás Harangozó, a representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. Why do government agencies assist in the exploitation of property guards? It's an address. Congressman Tamás Bellozó has the floor.
u2016-04-25-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. The employees of property protection companies are one of the most eviscerated and vulnerable groups of employees; payments below the minimum wage, unpaid leave, unpaid overtime and a large proportion of undeclared employment are still characterised by this sector today. This situation has not changed much since the otherwise justified ban on subcontractors' chains. The method of circumventing this prohibition was almost immediately found by operators who received a large profit from black and grey employment: instead of subcontractors, workers are still held in a vulnerable position by the agency of temporary agency. So the charade continues unchanged, the black economy continues to rumble throughout the sector, temporary agency companies are forming and closing, account companies are spinning. Most property guards have several employers on paper in a year, while working in the same place, wearing the same uniform, and receiving instructions from the same person. The authorities seem to be carrying out a mass of procedures against bullshit that employs property guards on paper, while the main contractors who make huge profits remain untouched. Moreover, public bodies, as customers, even facilitate the maintenance of a cash pump based on the evisceration of workers. Last time, an online news portal published a detailed article about a company that protects many state and municipal buildings by using well-known methods and by intervening subcontractors. In the past, even the National Tax and Customs Office was forced to explain the labour law situation of the property-guards. So I ask the Secretary of State how long the government agencies will assist us in exploiting the assets. At least why do public authorities not require the protection companies working for them to fully comply with labour law rules? When will they finally be willing to put an end to this business model based on the maiming of workers? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-04-25-52	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State.
u2016-04-25-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The account companies are spinning - that's what you said. I am asking you to fulfil your duties as Members of Parliament, and if you know of such an invoice factory, report immediately, because I would like to say that the investigating authorities will initiate the procedure immediately. Congressman, if you are aware of this, you will stress the credibility of your words or question whether you will or will not press charges. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Start with the Matolcsys!]] The conditions and verification of the pursuit of the activities of persons and property and of private detectives shall be governed by the Law on the Protection of Persons and Property and the Law on the Rules of Private Investigators and by the Ministry of Interior Decree implementing them. Following the 2012 amendment on the rules for the protection of persons and property and private detective activities, the undertaking carrying out the protection of persons and property may conclude contracts only with the undertaking initially entrusted with the task, and the contractor shall no longer be able to contract with any other subcontractors in order to carry out the contract. In addition, on 28 February 2015 360/2014 on the introduction of a minimum fee for property protection services entered into force. a government decree setting out the minimum amount of the asset protection service hourly fee in public procurement procedures relating to property protection activities. The calculation of the hourly rate included in this was preceded by a lengthy conciliation process. And I must also regret to say, honourable Member, that the MSZP has not voted in favour of the law authorising the Minister of the Interior to determine the elements of the overhead charge. Your interpellation would be more credible if this law had been passed, as it has taken a great step to achieve precisely the goals that you have expressed against the government or against the Ministry of the Interior as a criticism. [[14.50]] The conditions for the pursuit and control of the conduct of the activities shall be laid down in the legislation providing for the rules on the protection of persons and property and for the enforcement of the activities of private investigators, which shall include in detail the detailed rules for the taking up, pursuit, control and sanctioning of possible infringements of personal and property protection and of the activities of private investigators. The official control of activities covered by these legislation is currently carried out by the police, the National Tax and Customs Office and the labour authorities, resulting in close checks on persons and property protection and private investigators on a variety of aspects to ensure that the fundamental rights of workers are respected as widely as possible. Honourable Congressman, The rules for the hire of workers, which were also mentioned in the interpellation, are laid down in the Labour Code Act, and the monitoring of the implementation of those provisions falls within the remit of the labour authorities under the provisions of the Labour Control Act. Thus, it is not the police, but the labour body, which has considerable powers to control the rules on temporary agency work. Honourable Congressman, I have answered all the questions asked in your interpellation, and I have given you a concrete answer, so I ask the honourable Member to accept my answer in this regard. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-25-54	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2016-04-25-55	Dear Secretary of State, Obviously, you can't accept your answer. If your answer were true for one minute, and you took this question seriously, there would not be companies that specifically describe how it works today. Tens and hundreds of thousands are being eviscerated unannounced to this day, stealing their money, Mr. Secretary of State, but you're doing nothing. [[Károly Kontra: Report!]] I understand that there are links between Fidesz and the Minister of the Interior and this area, but this is still Skandalum. Tens of thousands are being enslaved, and you're watching this from a box! At the end of the day, the worker brings home 400-500 HUF of the two thousand HUF main contractor fee, and the rest is stolen from it by the temporary agency and the single sub-contractor level. By the way, I don't have to press charges, because half a city in Baranya County was taken a while ago for account-making and such matters, Mr. Secretary of State. But the system continues to be based on the fact that at the end of the day, the work starved, not announced, and eventually there will be no pension or health care. You can't accept your answer until you change that. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-25-56	Thank you, Congressman. Congressman, you didn't accept the answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes in favour, 31 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister:. Are you offshore organizations? Come to the register, the Hungarian State will be happy to pay you. In fact, the age of the offshore knights has flourished only with your government! It's an address. Congressman György Szilágyi has the floor.
u2016-04-25-57	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, On 1 April 2014, the Prime Minister's Office published a list of offshore companies with an opaque ownership structure, but still supported by the EU. As I think you know, it is illegal under the relevant legislation to grant aid to opaque companies, as is the case with any payments made to such entities. For the sake of clarity, here is a tangible example: Montana Knowledge Management Ltd. under the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments, he received a grant of HUF 660 million on five items, and then on 12 April 2012 you unlawfully granted this company an additional HUF 70 million. Then, on 1 April 2014, Montana Kft. was declared an opaque organization, and this was published, which information is available to anyone today. Your offshore classification also covers reality, since the 30th of December 2009 Montana's owners still have the opaque Yes Investment listed in Luxembourg. However, the shocking fact is just coming. The company's offshore branding by the Prime Minister's Office, after being on its forehead, continues to be abundant in state orders. It has been obtained by the National Police Headquarters, the GYEMSZI, the MNB's backup institution, the Financial Stability and Settlement Nonprofit Limited Liability Company, the State Health Care Center, the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund, but hold on, even the Directorate-General for Public Procurement and Supply. It's an impressive list, isn't it? The total value of the contracts is more than HUF 15 billion. 15 billion! On this case - and this is not an individual case - I also introduced you a week ago to another organization, Szaktudás Kiadó Ház Kereskedelmi és Szolgáltató Zrt. the case, which also wins the state's orders despite the fact that, in principle, it has been declared offshore by the State and is included in the list. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State how it can happen that individual budgetary bodies are filling the pockets of an offshore company with a Luxembourg background, and that the company has been officially declared opaque once. After a list of 260 offshore organizations was drawn up, how were these companies really excluded from state orders? Of course, I would also ask that, if you do know who or who are behind this unparalleled success company, which is apparently fed by the Gyurcsány-Bajnai and your government, you share these names here with the entire public opinion. I would also like to know whether you think it is strange that the government and its organisations do not comply with the laws in Hungary. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-25-58	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör.
u2016-04-25-59	Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to start by telling you where the current government started when it took over the steering column. Before 2010, no one examined the ownership of companies starting in public procurement on the basis of public procurement rules. One of the first things in the current cabinet was that it changed this practice. The current laws now guarantee transparency, it is now public for everyone to know who will start a public procurement and who will receive mandates. I'm sure you can do more than that, but you can't say that the government has done nothing to create transparency, especially with 44,000 companies having to declare their ownership of EU money alone. There are clear rules for the Hungarian State to conclude contracts with and not with, and everyone must comply with these rules. There is another thread to this question, which is linked to Panamanian documents. I would like to inform you that a working group has been established at the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of National Economy in order to examine individually the possible Hungarian strands of the Panamanian offshore case. The tax authority will also be involved in this investigation. Citizens are right to expect a clear picture of whether those with capital have complied with their tax obligations, which is the main issue. For successful work, it is also necessary for international bodies and low-tax countries to cooperate. It's not always easy. For example, in the case of an ex-Vice-President of the MSZP, the Austrian authorities did not provide all the information on how hundreds of millions were transferred to Gábor Simon's account. So there is plenty to do. But I believe that you have something to do with transparency. I would like to refer here to the fact that your financial statements, based on the examination of the State Audit Office, have repeatedly failed to meet the essential requirements. The reports, thus the report, did not show a real and reliable picture of the party's management, such as no financial supporters. Under such confusing circumstances, there's nothing to be surprised about the blissful domestic war. Your internal accounting debate, because that's what this is about, it's probably because a significant part of the better management employs their own relatives, a significant part of the faction spending goes to one mysterious group of companies, you leave behind companies, and you haven't even clarified the financial implications of the espionage scandal. On this issue, in this settlement debate, the government does not want to participate, of course, but continues to work towards establishing transparent relations in the area of public spending. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-25-60	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I ask Mr György Szilágyi whether he will accept the State Secretary's reply. [[15.00]]
u2016-04-25-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary of State was talking about confusing circumstances. Do you know what a confusing circumstance is? Your lie-filled answer is a confusing circumstance. Secretary of State, I have made myself clear: in Hungary, laws prohibit the conclusion of contracts with offshore companies. It's against the law. What are you doing? They're always signing contracts with offshore companies, filling their pockets with public money. These two companies have pocketed nearly 20 billion forints illegally by making it possible. You've committed a violation of the law. How do citizens expect law-abiding behaviour when government and background institutions don't give a damn about the law? Mr. Secretary, answer me this. Don't always talk nonsense, don't always point fingers at someone else. Look at you and see how much public money you've wasted. [[An uproar in the pro-government benches.]] See how they fill their pockets with friends who are full of offshore companies. Solar collectors and washing machines are important to you, not the Hungarian state, not the Hungarian citizens and not the Hungarian nation. Shame on you! [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches. Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-25-62	Thank you very much. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 112 votes in favour, 31 against, with two abstentions. Dear Parliament, László Szászfalvi, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources entitled "Mother, father, children, European Citizens' Initiative for the Protection of Marriage and Family." Mr László Szászfalvi has the floor, and I give the chair to Vice-President James. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2016-04-25-63	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The preamble of the new Fundamental Law, which entered into force on 1 January 2012, states, and I quote, that we believe that the most important framework for our coexistence is family and nation. In particular, Article L. of the Fundamental Law states that: Hungary protects the institution of marriage as a voluntary community between a man and a woman, as well as the family as the foundation for the survival of the nation. Indeed, the family is the basic unit of our society, the backbone, which, if it is strong, is built by the power of other communities, and ultimately it is the nation that emerges from all the strong families. From time to time in the European Union, new Community legislation that refers to marriage and family will be adopted. However, there is increasingly a difference between these marriage and family definitions and national definitions. Dear Secretary of State, The European Commission was presented to the European Commission on 15 October 2015 and then registered on 11 December, the European Citizens' Initiative for Father, Mother, Children - Marriage and Family Protection, which aims to use in the legislation of the European Union a definition of marriage and family that all Member States agree with. Marriage is an alliance between a man and a woman, and the family is based on marriage and/or offspring. These are the definitions adopted by all Member States that EU citizens can support through the initiative. The initiative respects Article 9 of the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights, which refers the definition of marriage and family to the competence of the Member States. According to the EU regulation on European Citizens' Initiatives, organisers have 12 months to collect at least 1 million signatures in at least 7 EU Member States. The collection of signatures ends on 3 April 2017. Both Hungary and Europe need strong families to form the nation and European nations. This is especially true in modern times when the family's institution in Europe is being eroded, and at the same time there are ethnic groups that are not from European culture on our continent, where the family is a strong bond. I respectfully ask Mr State Secretary what the government is doing to protect families and how it can strengthen the idea of family importance in Europe. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-25-64	Thank you, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-04-25-65	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, European politicians who believe in European people, the future, the performance of European people, see the way out of the demographic situation within Europe in family policy. And those who do not believe in it see Europe's future in resettlement, immigration and organised delivery of people. We are one of those people who believe in European people, which is why we prefer to support family policy measures rather than European resettlements, which are at a high cost, which is what the left is saying in the first place in Hungary. Article L of the Fundamental Law also states that Hungary protects the institution of marriage as a voluntary community between a man and a woman, as well as the family as the foundation for the survival of the nation. Family relationships are based on marriage and parent-child relationships. Exactly five years ago, the President of the Republic signed this text of the Fundamental Law. The Fundamental Law also states that life is protected, and that protection has been granted from conception to fetal life. Not only is the Fundamental Law, but our fundamental law on the protection of families is also clear, I quote:. The family is Hungary's most important national resource, as the basic unit of society, the family is the guarantee of the survival of the nation. Raising in the family is safer than any other option. Marriage, a community based on love and respect for one another, is a sure foundation for the family's creation, and it deserves to be appreciated at all times. Without the birth of children and the growth of families, there is no sustainable development and economic growth. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Thus says the fundamental law on the protection of families. When Hungary or the ruling parties had to prove their commitment internationally, of course we did. In fact, last year, you may also remember, in November, in November 2015, we held a European demographic forum here in Budapest, from 16 countries demographers, politicians, professionals, leaders of family organisations, and together we discussed how to achieve a positive demographic turnaround here in Europe, and what problems many countries are struggling with, and what solutions have been found in most countries. So we did not just want to declare our commitment to families, not only do we want to make laws on this within Hungary, which I will discuss in a moment, but we want to be a driver of demographic positive measures at European and even global level, and also a driver of European family policy. Of course, if, at any point in the European Union, we find that there are anti-family or relativising proposals within the European Union that deny the fundamental values of the family, then Hungary cannot accept them. There are European decisions that do not require consensus, of course, the other states, if they decide, can vote off the Hungarian position, but where unanimity is required, there is a need for unanimous vote, where Hungary, together with Poland or Malta, often fulfils its obligation under the Fundamental Law. He did so a few months ago when he expressed his negative position on the list of action, not alone, submitted by the Commission to the Council. What we have been able to do in the country has been done since 2010, it is enough to think back on the family-type tax system that we have introduced since 2011, and in 2014 we have made such a large extension to the contributions, which, let's say, represent even more support for a family with three children, an even greater share of income left behind than the introduction of the original family tax reduction. We can talk here about free children's meals or textbooks that become free in the ascending system, which are important because they are not just social support, but they are family support, because the state undertakes to contribute to the costs of raising children by catering the child or the cost of the child's textbook. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-25-66	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2016-04-25-67	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for your reply, which I accept. I think that a significant majority of Hungarian society wants a family-friendly and child-friendly country and nation in Hungary. I think, of course, that this goal, social and national goal is a significant tool for implementing government programmes by government means. [[15.10]] At the same time, it is clear that the public speech and the spiritual, spiritual medium surrounding the families in Hungary must have a significant influence and influence, and it is clear that this public sentiment, this public speech, cannot be achieved with valueless and valueless thinking, but only with value-oriented thinking. This is what we serve and that is what we want to do in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-25-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, has submitted an interview to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office:, Is it effective or necessary to speed up the drawdown of EU funds, or does it only make it difficult and prolong the process? It's an address. On behalf of Prime Minister János Fónagy, Minister for National Development, Miklós Seszták, who is competent and competent according to the subject, responds to the interpellation. I'll give the floor to the congresswoman.
u2016-04-25-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, EU aid is a huge and unrepeatable opportunity for the social and economic development of the country, but we are increasingly confronted with the fact that the government cannot make use of it. Growth is also determined by EU funds in the eighth year following the crisis, private sector investment is far below the pre-crisis level, GDP is only 2.5 percent higher than it was in 2008. The Orbán government has mostly used EU funds for poor purposes and with low efficiency. EU funds distort the structure of the Hungarian economy, not the important developments, but the ones where billions can easily be provided to friends. Not the companies that are capable of achieving them and which are viable on a market basis, but the buddies. Compared to the government's preliminary plans, there has still not been a single forint call from EU funds in 2014-20, but the budget has already been pre-financing 26 billion. The government announces that they want to pay all EU funds by 2019, which will be available by 2023. Compared to this, the latest news is that another HUF 420 billion has been frozen, which has increased the frozen amount to nearly 700 billion. The reason for this is that the National Development Programme Office announced a HUF 420 billion construction investment at the same time. At HUF 70 billion per region, companies have to bid for a session, i.e. they advertise a winner without a specific price for a specific project. This system is designed for overpriced. There is no better proof that the applicant companies are subject to conditions that only Lőrinc Mészáros can meet. The Fidesz government believes that the mandates allocated to some of its own large business companies strengthen the domestic economy and therefore push the limits. They're wrong. The domestic economy is strengthened not by overpriced projects provided by some oligarchs, but by a wide range of viable domestic businesses in each sector. With the EU's money taps closed, we will all face the cold reality: we have wasted a historic opportunity, and today's artificially nourished, lifeless companies disappear after a brief glamour. Dear Secretary of State, Rapid spending of EU money is not in the country's best interests for friendly companies. Are they willing to consider a strategy that focuses not on the present benefits but on the long-term interests of the country's economy? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2016-04-25-70	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2016-04-25-71	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you for asking, because it gives me the opportunity to inform you and the public about the real situation. Reality is separated by a considerable distance from what you said in your question as a virtual claim. First of all, it must be made clear that no funds have been frozen against your claim. In relation to this framework procurement, the Commission requested information from the managing authority for which the reply is being drawn up. This public procurement procedure, which you have objected to, is the European Parliament and the Council on public procurement and the European Parliament on public procurement. As set out in the Directive repealing the Directive, this is done in the form of procurement, i.e. a framework agreement, appearing in paragraph 60 of the preamble, which is a priority. Under the Directive, the Framework Agreement is widely and effectively applied in the European Union. It is not correct to conclude that only one or two applicants would be able to meet the criteria imposed. In view of the fact that procurement takes place in an open EU procedure, all companies or their consortia in all the Member States of the European Union can bid. We hope that such a large expansion of competition, according to which bidders can come from the entire European Union, is in line with LMP's market-supporting values. My statement is not more justified by the fact that another opposition colleague attacked and attacked the government precisely because of the fact that we did not apply this procedure to procurement of more separate units. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The government not only considers it, but also makes sure that Hungarian companies can also obtain large construction contracts along the country's long-term interests. This put an end to previous practice when only foreign multinational companies could have access to these types of public procurements. With this latter, I'm sure you and you agree. In the hope of this, I ask for consideration of the acceptance of my answer. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-25-72	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2016-04-25-73	I don't accept the answer. Secretary of State, it is a fact that more than two years have passed from this programming period, and so far we have not been able to draw any EU funding forints. It is also a fact that the European Union has asked about this proposal and, in its question, it has given rise to the grievance that this call for proposals will reduce the competition. But the fact is that no money has been received, but it is also not possible to deny that these funds are running hand in hand when using EU funds. Today, one of the main areas of corruption is EU funding, the theft of money and, on the other hand, we see that EU funding is primarily for companies and applicants close to Fidesz. We think certain rounds should be slowed down. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] For example, it is also a missed, quick step that they want to spend all the funding by 2019.
u2016-04-25-74	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the State Secretary's reply, and I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 104 votes in favour, 30 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, István Horváth, representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture: - Are we better off with the promises of the opposition or along the lines of the Government's actions? It's an address. Mr István Horváth has the floor.
u2016-04-25-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, This year, the VAT on pig meat fell from 27 to 5 percent, which was perhaps the most important step so far in the VAT reduction measures that started in 2014. Previous VAT reductions have had the most positive impact on the producer sector, but most of the measures in place already have a direct impact on consumers. This tax reduction was validated by several key retail chains in its prices. The first period of the year was loud with actions due to VAT reductions, the prices of certain products decreased significantly, which, according to market participants' first reports, increased the demand for capital meat even more. Hopefully, this will be the positive effect of the new tax cuts planned for the 2017 budget, which will affect milk, eggs and poultrymeat. [[15.20]] With these VAT cuts, the government wants to reduce the cost of living for the population, but we can also expect additional benefits, such as a longer-term increase in demand for pig and poultry meat or dairy products, thereby improving the situation of decent businesses, thus helping to preserve and increase the competitiveness of the entire sectors. Our fellow opponents are, of course, extremely skeptical, and they are also trying to base on actual results. For example, our socialist and better-looking fellow Members have submitted a series of proposals for reducing VAT, which would involve a wider range of products. They do this without any responsibilities, as they should not be the ones to balance the budget after a measure like this. On the contrary, it is easy to make a political subject of VAT cuts, but, for example, during socialist governments, no food had such a low VAT rate. I ask you, Mr. Secretary of State. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] how the Ministry examines and evaluates the results of earlier VAT reductions and of the VAT reductions that came into force from this year. What are the experiences so far? How does the consumption of pigmeat develop? What are the results of the tax incentives introduced in the bovine, ovine and caprine sectors? What effect does the measures have on the consumption of products from other production routes, such as poultrymeat? What additional measures does the portfolio support the sectors affected by the tax reduction? What are the effects and results of the plans for the future? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-04-25-76	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary György Czerván responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-04-25-77	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The Government's general traffic tax reduction programme has taken a new level as of 1 January 2016. By placing pig capital meats in a 5 per cent VAT range, the intermediate products are now subject to a general turnover tax reduction that reaches final consumers. The Ministry of Agriculture, as in the past, considers it important to examine the effects of the measure in a wide range of ways for intermediate products. To this end, it operates a monitoring system in which it collects and evaluates all available data and information. The primary objective of the most thorough monitoring work is for the government to assess the economic impact of the VAT reduction by presenting expected statistically detectable results, including not only the development of consumer prices, but also the progress made in reducing the black economy. The first VAT reduction to reach final consumers has met the requirements of the legislator and industry, based on the experience and available official data of the first quarter. The consumer price of pigmeat decreased almost as much as the overall price transmission rate, with a noticeable rise in the demand for pig meat. However, experience so far shows no signs of a fall in demand in the poultrymeat market. The decrease in consumer prices has been sustained over the period so far and in the investigation period. It is important experience that the retail chains have complied with their commitments prior to the entry into force of the measure, both in terms of price reductions and in terms of communication. The professional position of the Ministry of Agriculture continues to be that the most effective solution for improving the situation and regional competitiveness of domestic agriculture and the food industry could be the reduction of general traffic taxes covering a wide range of basic foods. However, experience in recent years has shown that a reduction in general turnover tax can only be achieved step by step, in line with the burdeny capacity of the budget, at least responsibly. It can now be said that the reduction of the high VAT rate has helped to whiten the sectors concerned, to safeguard jobs in rural areas and in labour intensive sectors, and to reduce the cost of living for the population. According to the Government's decision, from 1 January 2017, of course after the parliamentary approval, the rate of the general turnover tax on poultrymeat, eggs and milk will be reduced to 5 per cent. With this reduction, people are expected to buy more, as consumer prices will decrease, consumption will increase and the black economy will fall. According to our calculations, this measure represents a total savings of HUF 59 billion for households, while a family saves HUF 35-40 thousand per year. Thus, both farmers and families benefit from VAT reductions. Thank you for your attention, and I ask for my answer to be accepted. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-04-25-78	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman István Horváth if he will accept the State Secretary's reply. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-04-25-79	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I was happy to listen to your reply, and with great respect I accept the response to the interpellation. I would like to thank the Ministry of Agriculture for the kind of professional preparation and support that we have been able to make these VAT cuts. As the Secretary of State has already said, there are two parts of the VAT reduction. It takes political courage, and it takes economic strength. In recent years, the Ministry of Agriculture has repeatedly initiated a reduction of VAT to 5 per cent not only in pig sectors but also in other sectors, so there has always been political courage on the part of the policy. Obviously, the economic performance of the past period must have been to have the economic power to be gradual in the introduction of VAT, and to maintain the ability of the economy to bear a burden. The VAT reduction in 2017 will leave some HUF 56 billion in the pocket of the families, and the VAT reduction of capital meat will give the Hungarian families a surplus of about 20 billion, thanks to the work of the Ministry of Agriculture and the government's economic strength and courage in two years. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Nearly HUF 80 billion will remain with families from VAT reductions and the sectors will become significantly whiter. Thank you again for your work, and I confirm your acceptance of your response. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-04-25-80	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Mr. Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: - How does the orange party state continue to build? ! Or why do we need another centralization? What about pensions, sick pay, disability benefits, and family benefits if the ONYF and OEP cease to exist? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Korózs has the floor.
u2016-04-25-81	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, We know that Hungarian reforms work [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]] and government propaganda on the road and road, and we can also know that many background institutions are being liquidated or merged into the central system of public administration. Recently, János Lázár announced that from July this year two large insurance funds would continue to operate as national family support and social security offices. They would therefore pool the National Health Insurance Fund and the National Pension Fund and the Directorate-General for Pension Insurance. As a result of the restructuring, as can be seen from the news, it has also been shown that they intend to implement this in two steps, since in a year's time this newly created institution would also be merged into the Hungarian Treasury. As a result, the Chancellor's Minister said that health and pension insurance funds will be transferred from here, all other paying places will virtually disappear. According to the news, these restructuring plans even surprised the relevant ministers when they first heard about it. What we see is that Fidesz is actually building a party state with restructuring, by placing all institutions under the ministries, it will be even more directly necessary to implement government policy. Manual control will be the only management method in all sectors, and they will decide slowly on pension statements, child benefits, benefits or even medical aids as a proposal requiring a ministerial decision, and at the end we will only notice that members of the fidesz clientship will benefit from certain benefits, whether they are washing machines, solar collectors or family allowances. [[15.30]] For this reason, I ask the Minister or the Secretary of State - I gave him the following title - what about pensions, sick money, disability benefits and the support of families when the ONYF and OEP cease? What is the guarantee that each month the benefits of the right holders will arrive in a timely and appropriate amount, when they are unable to operate it now and to refer it in good time? What about the current two insurance funds and their tasks, and my question is: which exactly wallet or who will manage the new organization, who will be responsible for determining and paying the benefits? My further question is: how do you want to put different benefits under a single system of rules and principles? One more question: where else do you want to reduce the number of institutions that are already burdened? Finally, I ask the Secretary of State: what is really the need for all this? Thank you very much.
u2016-04-25-82	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2016-04-25-83	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Many people have often said that there is a need to cut red tape, only socialist governments, when they should have taken action, suddenly stopped, and they may have said so in horse-zung, but they have not done so in actual measures. The result was that the socialists lost the voter's trust because the state was not able to operate in a normal way. [[Nándor Gúr intervenes.]] And bureaucracy cuts are also associated with the number of bureaucratic institutions, the number of offices. You have said many times over the past six years that these changes, which have been preceded by the current government in the last six years, will cause malfunctions and problems; they have said this even when government offices, district and county government offices have been established, but these offices have been in operation ever since, and there are no snake lines before them, even though they have been in operation for five years, and at the first instance they have considered a lot of cases. From the point of view of citizens who are entitled to some benefits, this will not mean a substantial change, since who has been entitled will still be entitled, not the eligibility rules will change, not anyone will have to prepare for anything here, it will simply be the organisational system that manages it, which pays it, which changes, simplifies, becomes much more transparent in our view. However, access rules and basic social security tasks remain the same, there will be no change. The rules on access to social security and family support do not change. At the same time, we had a very strong vision of getting as close as possible to the clients where they could start their case. That is why we have opened it and we are extending the number of government windows every month, precisely so that a citizen starting in the administration does not have to go to several offices, so that he has to know by heart that the office A, B or C is competent in his case; quite simply he can initiate proceedings at the government window of the district government. This is where you can report needs closer to customers, ask for data requests; it is a more transparent system of organisations, a more close-to-population system, that is still under construction. We want three basic levels of administration: your district, your county and your ministry. At the district level, there is actual contact with customers, of course this can happen by electronic means, through the customer gate; the second is the county level, where the actual administration takes place most of the cases; the third level, the highest level, is the Ministry, which exercises professional control or forms a strategy, prepares draft laws or adopts or adopts laws with the government. This will make it clearer and clearer for everyone at which level of public administration who has what task. There are no parallels, there are no tasks that a central office would carry out, and a ministry would carry out, thus creating a governance or regulatory problem; it is clear who is responsible for regulation, first-degree, second-degree procedure. This is how these different powers are transferred from certain background institutions, offices to ministries on the one hand, and government offices on the other. This will make a more uniform system from a more fragmented and parallel system. It is more transparent, we trust it, it is also for citizens, but it is certain that it is faster, more professional, and we hope that it will also require more public satisfaction. That may not have occurred to the Member, but for example, family support is already paid, handled and established by government agencies, and the ONYF is now acting as a second-degree authority in these matters. Thus, some of these conversions have already occurred before, an electronic system operates these payments in most cases, and these electronic systems are transferred from one institution to another. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] But I can also say with regard to the reduction of bureaucracy that when 17 health institutions became 12 on 1 April 2015, this did not result in any kind of complaints from the public. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-25-84	Thank you for the Secretary of State's reply. I ask Congressman Lajos Korózs if he will accept the State Secretary's answer. You have the floor.
u2016-04-25-85	I'm sorry, but I can't accept your answer, Mr. Secretary. Recently, this system has shown that it is not working, as thousands and tens of thousands of teachers have not received their care in time. A significant proportion of hospital debt is due to the inability to resolve financing in the current situation, or to the timely transfer of funds that could be used to settle the bill. In addition, the way I see it, the bureaucracy cuts at Fidesz work is that those who are there in the middle of the administration, who carry out the half-bets, who stand by the counter, have reduced the number of those who stand by the counter, the number of leaders has been increased, and their wages have been increased, while people are working there almost as slaves, tens of thousands of people in this place of government. The experts who work at the MÁV have made it clear that they are unable to switch to the new system in a year, so I cannot accept your answer. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-25-86	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Member did not accept the State Secretary's reply, so I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 109 votes in favour, 33 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Tibor Bana, a representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. What does the government do for workers in the multinationals? It's an address. Congressman Tibor Bana has the floor.
u2016-04-25-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, We believe that the most important framework for our living together is family and nation. This quote is from the Fundamental Law, which was adopted in 2011, as well as the new Labour Code. My today's interpellation is about how out of line the two laws are, how anti-familyly the new labour code is. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]] In 2009, major companies and factories in Hungary started to introduce the so-called working time framework, of course only in a few departments to test it. This meant that if there were 8 weekend days in a given month, 4 Saturdays, 4 Sundays, then 6 days, 3 Saturdays and 3 Sundays mornings, afternoons, nights had to do work. The anti-family working time framework was put into law by the corporate lobby in 2012, including on the proposal of KDNP representatives; from then on, it was only on the strength of trade unions where this employment model was introduced. It is worth pointing out that in Austria, Őrvidék, where trade union support is 70%, they have not yet been able to turn Saturday into a weekday, but in Hungary, where the typical trade union support is around 20 percent, this method of employment is already widespread. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: Shame!]] The most popular form of the free-weekend event in 2016 was the 5/2 model in several companies, which is based on Saturday's work with an everyday rest. This is rejected by the overwhelming majority of workers. The rest-shift model is usually not introduced at the same time, but is always waited for the department to calm down and then the next department. Companies' leaders almost always refer to the law. Dear Secretary of State, They make 600,000 people who have left the country, most of whom are young workers who are trained. According to the government, they left out of a sense of adventure. In the meantime, come home, young man. The program was so successful that its founder already works abroad. The disease is better to prevent than to treat. If companies peak their working hours among young people, Western countries will benefit from a well-trained, well-burdened, young Hungarian workforce, and at home they can prepare the law on raising the retirement age, stressing the worker further. The workman who works nights and goes in to work on Mondays, Tuesdays, stays home on Wednesdays, and then nights on Thursdays, Fridays, Saturdays, the biorhythm of which can no longer be more twisted. I don't even talk about those who get two nights a month - they go to bed on Sunday morning and wake up at noon and have a full Sunday next week. In view of what has been said, the Labour Code is not in line with the Basic Law, as it does not provide the conditions for the principles set out in it and for the harmonious family life. I look forward to the Secretary of State's substantive answer to the following questions. When will the Labour Code finally be family- and national-friendly, as the current government is supposed to be? [[15.40]] Can meaningful discussions be expected on these issues with trade unions and other stakeholders? I look forward to your substantive reply, Mr. Secretary. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-25-88	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-04-25-89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, Working on Sundays is mainly intended to meet the needs of society and to ensure the functioning of the economy. To this end, the Labour Code regulates the cases in which work can be carried out on Sundays and the remuneration for carrying out the work. However, in order to ensure that guarantees are effective, workers should only be employed on Sunday under normal working time activities which are either in the public interest or are objectively necessary for the normal functioning of the employer. This directing principle applies uniformly in the regulation, i.e. there is no distinction between certain groups of workers in the law. It should be noted that, on the basis of the examination of the last four years, the number of people employed in the national economy on Sunday has been steadily decreasing, trendily, as has been said in the context of the proposal before the agenda. In addition, labour control is particularly, constantly monitoring sectors and sectors where infringements are more frequent on the basis of inspection experience. In relation to the subject matter of the interpellation, machinery and manufacturing industry and trade, where multi-shift work in working time is the most typical, the controls affected almost a third of all the controlled employers, precisely 31.5 percent and 42.5 percent of the total number of employees. Hungarian legislation does not deviate from EU trends on Sunday's regular working time in retail trade and its remuneration. Sunday opening hours are allowed in a large part of the EU Member States, for example in Poland, Sweden or Slovakia, and in the other part there is flexible restrictions on Sunday opening hours, such as the United Kingdom or France, Greece, Germany. More stringent restrictions on Sunday's opening hours are minor in the European Union, and I could mention one example, Austria. According to the Hungarian legislation, the 50 percent wage supplement on Sunday is provided for both the commercial employer and the multi-shift activity, so workers who work on Sundays and weekends will receive compensation. I also note that there is no evidence of the magnitude of the data contained in the interpellation from the labour force leaving the country. I would like to clarify, and it has often been said here in Parliament, that in the UK, according to data from the UK Statistical Office in 2014, there are about 55 thousand people born in Hungary. This has increased somewhat in the last year, of course, and you think so, and you may be able to vomit on it in return, but it is not as large as the number you mentioned. According to data from the German Federal Statistical Office, the number of Hungarian workers in Germany was around 83 thousand in September 2015. According to the data published by the Austrian Ministry, this is 73,000 people in Austria, but 60-70 percent of them work daily, so they are not living in Austria. And it must also be pointed out that, in recent years, the return flow of Hungarian citizens working outside has increased significantly and trendily. By the way, when we talk about workers returning from abroad, in many cases, we can see that the working hours of workers who are so employed abroad are indeed being peaked there. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Please be informed in this regard as well. I think I've answered all your questions, so please. [[The president's ringing again.]] accept my answer. By the way, I'm honored to have your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-25-90	Thank you for the Secretary of State's reply. I ask the Member if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2016-04-25-91	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I am glad that this interpellation took place today, because it is the celebration of the Fundamental Law. At the time, there was a celebration of the Constitution during Rákosi, here we are now in 2016, during the government of Viktor Orbán and Fidesz. [[Rumble on the pro-government side.]] Regrettably, in addition to the nice and soundy sentences, you have not said a word about how you intend to change the labour code in the interests of workers. As you say, by the way, that you have answered everything, we have not heard anything from the Secretary of State in the last four minutes about Saturday. [[Péter Cseresnyés: You didn't ask!]] And it is possible to argue about the size of the scale here, about how many people left the country, but one thing is certain: Vas county experience for last year and the months that have passed this year, that a lot of large companies have flowed back to Austria, so the process that started earlier continued. Several requests have been made in this direction, and fortunately, they are organized in some companies and companies. I don't know, if your goal is to get as many people out of the country as possible, then you're doing it right. I cannot accept the Secretary of State's reply, in which he was wrong. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-25-92	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 110 votes in favour, 33 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck and István Ikotity, representatives of LMP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. By transforming vocational secondary schools, they also serve the interests of the oligarchs? It's an address. Mr István Ikotity has the floor.
u2016-04-25-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, According to the amendments to the VET Act adopted last year, professional secondary schools will be renamed vocational schools from September this year. It is not only a misleading name change, but also reform vocational schools according to the framework concepts published these days. It is planned that the vocational secondary school curriculum would be significantly changed: next year, classes would start where they would learn much more professional knowledge than before, but much less public knowledge. On Szalay Street, they've come up with the best idea again: they tell you, for example, geography should only be studied by those who become surveyors, physics should be studied by those who are engineers, biology is by those who are foresters, and chemistry is only by those who are chemists. Why does everyone have to learn all kinds of things? All these unnecessary subjects just hinder students, says Fidesz-KDNP. You want to go to college? Change of profession? Change of course? Getting basic education? Come on. The direction of the amendment will be integrated into the government's policy so far, which aims to derail vocational training and to make it vulnerable to economic interests. This is not without precedent: they practically banished public knowledge objects from vocational schools as early as the previous cycle, giving students little chance of graduation or further education. Dear Secretary of State, The narrowing of the curriculum for vocational secondary schools shows the difference between the government's education policy and the idea of LMP. The government wants the interests of the economy to get cheap labor, learn the profession somehow, the rest doesn't matter. Go slaving, work in assembly plants at minimum wage in one of the factories next to the tape. The May Other is Politics, on the other hand, represents the interests of the whole economy and society. We believe that we need vocational training that does not banish public knowledge, that is, basic knowledge of civilization; which does not ignore everyday prosperity, the 21st century. the development of skills and competences for the century or even language learning. The LMP wants vocational training that is a stepping stone to higher education, a drummer to change the profession, an opportunity for those who want to change their careers. Young people need to be prepared for the changing needs of the changing world, otherwise more people will leave this country than they are now leaving. Dear Secretary of State, Why do they want to limit vocational training to skills? How long will they continue to serve the narrow economic interests and the oligarchs? When do they realize that the 21st century Does the century have to serve the needs of the knowledge economy? Thank you in advance for your reply.
u2016-04-25-94	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-04-25-95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, We can agree that vocational training needs to be adapted to the changing expectations of the changing world, and that is exactly what we are doing. I regret that it has not been studied in an appropriate way how vocational training is transformed, because each point, each change, points in the direction of the well-trained, well-trained and well-known professionals required by the labour market, in the labour market. [[15.50]] To this end, the Hungarian government has been paying particular attention to the field of vocational training since 2010 and has performed significant, seemingly effective, activities in the transformation of the vocational training system in recent years. In the last year, major steps have already been taken along the lines of the legislative changes that have taken place in line with the concept adopted by the government, "Professional Training in the Service of the Economy." Within this framework, as the Member has indicated in his interpellation, and professional education will be launched in a system that will emerge as part of the new training structure from the 2016-2017 academic year, exactly September 2016. The change from September does not simply mean a change of name, but also a change in the structure of training, which is part of Article XXI. They serve to develop skills, competences and meet the very, very important IT and language learning needs. The new structure for public education in vocational education provides more opportunities to acquire language, financial and IT skills, as well as professional skills, as a result of the transformation, those starting their studies in the vocational school will also acquire qualifications in the framework of their graduation. However, the change indicated does not affect the course frames of compulsory examination subjects, and I would like to stress that they remain unchanged, and the new draft framework curriculum also ensures that the preparation of students in high school for a course in science related to the chosen course will be ensured at an increased level. This training structure also helps to obtain graduate-based technic qualifications and professional higher education further, so it is not true that this system is closed, and it is possible to continue to study in higher education. This system helps this, but it does not make it impossible to achieve further education paths in another direction. After graduation, the high school student, like his associate in high school, can continue to study in vocational training in any sector and can acquire qualifications in any school system in two years. So if you don't want to get a profession that meets your professional qualifications based on your vocational education, you're going to have to study for two years. By the way, if you're going to use your professional skills in high school, you can have a year's training to acquire your profession and get a tech degree. Thus, after five years of vocational education and training, students of higher education have two qualifications, technical qualifications and formal qualifications, the benefits of dual training to provide practice-oriented knowledge, and the more stable language skills provided by our increased language classes are broad, well-founded and well-established in accordance with Article XXI. He can enter the market with the necessary knowledge in the first century. I think the concern, the concern you've expressed in the interpellation is not going to hold up, so I'm asking you to accept my answer. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-04-25-96	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2016-04-25-97	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I am pleased to hear that, if I interpret the words of the Secretary of State correctly, the hours of public knowledge will not be reduced. We'll see if it shows up right away. So far, we've obviously based this on press information. However, the reason why I cannot accept your answer, Mr Secretary, is the fundamental difference that you see in vocational training. Just to highlight a few key words or some contexts from what you use: in the service of the economy or: the labour market is what you want. We think it's the 21st. It is also very important to see, on the one hand, that things are not on the head, so we think that the economy is a man's servant, not that people should be shaped to serve the economy. It's a fundamental difference. The other thing I would like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to is that in western Europe, in societies far more advanced than us, a skilled worker trains himself at least six times in his life. The greater the opportunity to do so must be allowed. If it's narrowed down [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] you'll have very little choice of location.
u2016-04-25-98	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes in favour, 30 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister: ! It's an address. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor.
u2016-04-25-99	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The government always has money for lying propaganda. Many in their mailbox have already found the government's latest mem publication, [[Sándor Font's intervention.]] In addition to smiling pictures of happy families, funny inscriptions announce that Hungarian reforms work. Let's start at the beginning, where the publication discusses the policy of tax reduction: the only small thing they forgot to write was that three quarters of Hungarian families were worse off with the one-key tax, as they also ceased the tax credit, with which they took 12 thousand forints out of the pockets of low-income workers. Propaganda says that tax cuts make more and more people worth choosing work instead of aid. As if anyone could live in Hungary today with the HUF 22 800 allowance. Then comes the next lie: family tax incentives are growing. This is not true because the support of families with one child does not change, nor does the support of three or more children become fosterers, nor has it been the same for the fifth year. Even the two - child population will rise in just a few years to the extent promised in the heat of the elections two years ago. But we have not yet talked about the hundreds of thousands of families that have not received this benefit in any way, and the family benefits they receive have not increased in eight years. In the expansion of the family's housing discount, it is not mentioned in one word that today nearly a quarter of the Hungarian population has some kind of backlog in relation to housing expenditure. The biggest fake is the part about the rise in the minimum wage, Mr. Secretary of State. In fact, what people receive has changed from HUF 60 236 to HUF 73 815. So the minimum wage did not increase by 37,000 forints, as they lied, but by only 13,000 forints. It says a lot about the government's pension policy to be remembered on the minimum wage page, with one sentence, pensions and pensioners. They do not advertise that only 1.6 percent increase will be made this year, which meant only a few hundred forints to many, while there are millions of pensions. Of course, it turns out that next year, there's only going to be a 0.9 percent pension increase compared to that. So, however it is advertised, that Hungary is performing better and that the Hungarian reforms are working, while reality is not. There is no better indication that some 33 000 people left the country last year, according to the data of the HCSO. That's why I'm asking, Mr. Secretary: instead of telling lies, why don't you spend the country's money on real support for families? If the Hungarian reforms are working, why are conditions in health care catastrophic? Why build a stadium if reforms work so much, why don't they use it for families? I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-04-25-100	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Csaba Dömötör responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-04-25-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If I understand what you're saying, then you acknowledge that the Hungarian reforms are working, a publication of good quality in terms of its appearance. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Good Quality!]] but with regard to its content [[Intruder from the benches of the MSZP: Lies!]] He's a little dissatisfied. So it's worth talking about. [[Lajos Korózs: It's slippery!]] I regret that the word meme is consistently confused with the word fact, because this publication does not represent some opinion of the government, but the facts. So I suggest we go over these facts. Let's start with, say, the personal income tax on the first page pair. In fact, in January, her key dropped to 15 percent. With this, Hungary is now one of the lowest in the whole of Europe. On the other hand, when you were in government, there were times when the highest tax rate was 36 percent. 36! That's a big difference. We can continue the line with family support. I am sorry that they are being taken away from the fact that families raising children are greatly helped by the system of tax incentives. The two children receive HUF 12 500 a month per child. This is exactly 12 500 forints more than the MSZP could provide. For three children, the discount is 100,000 HUF [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: 600,000 HUF salary...]] - that's 100,000 forints more than the MSZP provided. [[Noise and interruptions from the benches of MSZP.]] The publication also addresses the issue of home creation in detail. It highlights, for example, the fact that the tax on housing is reduced from 27 percent to 5 percent. You raised it twice. And there's also a table that lets everyone know what kind of state aid you can expect when you want to buy a new apartment. That could be 10 million forints. [[16.00]] In fact, the government now supports home creation in five different ways, that is exactly four more than you could provide, and that one was foreign exchange lending. By the way, you are right to say that it is a problem to have one in four Hungarian people behind, let's say, in foreign exchange loans. But we can also add that if there is political responsibility for the situation, foreign currency lending, it is the Hungarian Socialist Party. [[Interjection from the lines of the MSZP: It is not so. Lajos Kósa: That's right!]] It is also a fact that today the economy is on a growing path, in your time there was a year when it fell by 7 percent. This increase will allow, for example, the government to provide additional resources in health in the order of 100 billion in the next year, and this will allow it to significantly reduce the VAT on key foods. There's one more question I'd like to ask you. The issue of immigration is also mentioned in the publication, such as how the border lock works. We cannot go without saying that the left would now allow more room for immigration by saying loudly no to Hungarians across the border, to dual citizenship. We all remember the gastric campaign that the Gyurcsány government conducted against Hungarians across the border; you may remember it, as you were one of the posters of the campaign. [[Lajos Kósa: Shame!]] You have also prepared a publication, I hold it in my hand, with the title "The Responsible Decision," in which you were alarmed that the introduction of dual citizenship would cost each Hungarian person 167 thousand forints per person. Since then, there has been dual citizenship, so it turns out that what they said was a net lie, all in capital letters. You said in your speech that it was everyday lies; what you did was not everyday lies, but historical lies. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and There is, therefore, a fundamental difference between the attitude of current governments and those of previous left-wing governments. Today's government publications are about the joint achievements of Hungarians, about the facts, while your goal was to jump the Hungarians against each other. Looks like they're playing that game right now. Nevertheless, I ask you not to debate Hungary's achievements in recent years and not to fight the facts with a wooden sword. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-25-102	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2016-04-25-103	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't accept your answer. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties. Lajos Kósa: Apologize to the Hungarian people?]] You know, Mr. Secretary, this picture is the tiniest one to open. [[He's presenting the publication.]] From a net of 73,000 forints, they put in the newspaper a lady with a fake eyelash, a fresh haircut, a solarium and a grin. For 73,000 forints today, this is the mother of a happy family. It's not like that. The other, Mr Secretary of State, says in the publication: "Our goal is to allow everyone in 2016 to take a step forward in their own life. I wish you, too, to take a step back and disappear for the sake of the Hungarian people. Thank you very much. [[István Szilárd Németh: The Socialists lied again.]]
u2016-04-25-104	Dear Parliament, The congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply with 107 yes, 30 no votes and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, President Novak, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:, What is the value of the government's family policy? 71% of society say he failed! It's an address. Secretary Katalin Veresné Novák, on behalf of Minister Zoltán Balog, who is competent and competent on the subject, responds to the interpellation on behalf of Prime Minister. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2016-04-25-105	Dear Secretary of State, The governing parties are celebrating their Fundamental Law today, which contains a number of horse-zunges that have not been followed by substantive measures. For example, according to one of the undertakings of the Fundamental Law, Hungary protects the family as a basis for the survival of the nation. However, according to the people's judgment, this is not the case. According to the most recent representative opinion poll of the Institute of Directions, the question whether you believe that the current family policy of the government is sufficient to address the Hungarian population crisis has been answered by 71 percent, according to whom the government's family policy is not sufficient, i.e. insufficient, i.e. failed. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties. Károly Kontra: Radical!]] Only 21 percent of society believes that it is enough. For the sake of fairness, I would also like to say that I asked the Institute of Directions to ask such a question last year, and the proportion of voters who believe that the current government's family policy is sufficient to deal with the Hungarian population crisis has increased by 6 percentage points compared to 2015. But despite the positive change, it is still outstandingly high, with 71 percent of those who believe that the family policy of the Orbán government has failed. Due to the catastrophic demographic situation, without radical change, the pension system, but the whole public finances, is unsustainable. The government should face the ageing of society, the population explosion of Roma and the emigrating of active-age, working Hungarians to the West in nearly a million. [[Lajos Kósa: This is not going to be a vice president!]] It is difficult to estimate this, but the overall situation is much worse than the official KSH data. According to official figures, population loss increased to 40,000 in 2015 compared to 35,000 in 2014. For this reason Jobbik is calling for more serious population policy measures, for example, we have presented our bill aimed at reducing the VAT burden on products for child rearing to 5%, which you have voted against. We urge greater support for the birth of the first child; the extension of support for full-time motherhood and the abolition of the nursery care fee for those who choose to work in parallel, for which we submitted our proposal last week. We find it urgent to build a predictable family support system, which, like pensions, would follow inflation, to increase the support of the IVF baby programme, family-friendly higher education, demographic land programme to bring young couples to the ground - József Ángyán could tell you about it - and to introduce parental annuities to automatically support their parents from the child's personal income tax. Madam Secretary, what is your assessment of the government's family policy in terms of population loss? Please, let's talk about the future, instead of describing government self-policing, the steps we've taken so far. [[György Balla: Let's talk about the future.]] Do you see that the government's family policy efforts are insufficient and are willing to consider and accept at least some of the above proposals? Please, just talk about the one you'd like to support in some way. Thank you in advance, if you can do that for once. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-25-106	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Katalin Veresné Novák responds to the interpellation. I give you the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2016-04-25-107	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I don't know what he called it. Did he call a search of the Compass Institute a public judgment? I don't know, we've been trying to find out if the Research of the Compass Institute is even accessible. We've been looking for him. I wanted to learn from him. We couldn't find it. We didn't find it anywhere, so I wouldn't even be able to call it a people's judgment. Let's start with, I think, fixing the numbers that Congressman mentioned here. I don't think there's any need for this here. The fact that the problem of population loss is important is the first one recognized by the Orbán government, and our government is the first to face it and tries to do something to reverse this process. And where we stand with regard to the figures: I see the success of the government's family policy just by never saying, I'm sorry, that in twenty years, we have not had so many children in one family on average. Fertility has increased steadily over the past period: from the lowest level of the 1.24th century, which was due to the impact of left-wing governments, it has now risen to 1.44th century. I'm not saying that's enough, but it was a very significant increase. Consider that in the last five years, the number of marriages has increased by 30 percent. The same figure decreased by 23 percent between 2002 and 2008. This is also a confirmation that families are optimistic, young people are more optimistic and dare to start a family. I have the latest data on the population loss you're talking about. In recent months, population loss has decreased by 42 percent compared to the same period of the previous year. And what do we do to make it better to have children today than before, so that families can dare to have children more bravely? This is why we have introduced the family-type taxation mentioned by the Secretary of State, which has not been the case in Hungary before. [[16.10]] Today, parents do not pay any personal income tax at all in a family of two - earning families with three children. That is why we have introduced a home creation programme which is also unprecedented and which can bring families home even without family help. That is why we introduced the Gyed extra, which is why we allow mothers the freedom of choice to stay at home with their children for up to three years, we traced back the third-year child taken by the left-wing government, and in parallel we introduced the Gyed extra from the age of six months. Or that is what nursery constructions are all about, which also allow families to work and have children. We are constantly making progress on family support. If you are looking at the planning of the 2017 budget, you can also see that we have set bigger appropriations than before. Compared to 2010, financial family support increased by 43 percent, with HUF 261 billion. Compared to the OECD average, which is 2.55%, we spend 4 percent on family support. So I think that support for families is indeed at the heart of the government's ambitions, and this is confirmed by families who prefer to have children more than before, who look to the future with greater optimism. So I would like to ask the Member not to threaten national death, and perhaps, in addition to the demographic crisis, to focus a little on Jobbik's crisis. [[Defiance, a big round of applause from the benches of government parties. Crikeys: That's right!]] Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-04-25-108	I thank the Secretary of State for her reply. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2016-04-25-109	Madam State Secretary, you know and know that we are constructive in supporting the government's family policy efforts. However, I asked to talk about the future instead of government self-police. [[Crying from the benches of Fidesz: That's what we talked about!]] The question of whether there is one piece of the good proposals I have made that you consider to be supported. [[It's a lot of noise.]] He did not say a word about this, so I find his reply unacceptable. I'm sorry that the research of the Institute of Directions is not known to you. For example, I published the graphs on my Facebook page, and even... [[Rushing up, coming up from the pro-government benches.]] even on the population round table. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] Madam Secretary, if you were to attend or be represented at the population round table, you would know that I distributed you there. Last year, too, last year's research, but unfortunately neither you nor your representative participate in the meeting of the Population Round Table. [[Katalin Veresné Novák: Three Members attend!]] The only party is Jobbik, which meets this invitation to all parties and is represented at every meeting. [[János Lázár: In what capacity, Congressman?]] But what I'm asking is if you don't believe the Compass Institute. [[János Lázár: Which party, which faction?]] then you can assess yourself, and please answer the question I asked you at another time, which was also addressed, which is how much you value the government's family policy then. [[Attila Móring József: No questions asked!]] When yes, according to some measurements, 71 percent say he failed. I'm looking forward to it, at least in the hallway, with your honest, confessional response. Thank you very much. [[Lajos Kósa: Start as president! You're gonna be president. A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-04-25-110	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply with 107 yes, 31 no votes and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, It's 4:13 p.m., and we've reached the end of the interpellation trial. Please stay for a moment. Before we get to the debate on immediate questions, Mr János Volner asked for a point of order, Mr Jobbik. I give you the floor.
u2016-04-25-111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to make a point of order. The point of my proposal is to ask Mr President to convene the House Committee. The justification for this proposal is that the management of data covered by the National Security Committee and classified information are not toys, Mr Szilárd Németh. The data you shared here with the general public is no longer classified as classified data for the first time. I asked my fellow Member, Adam Mirkóczki, who was a member of the competent commission with a national security screening. I support the disclosure of the data that you have published, but it is not the case that you regularly play village radio in Parliament, Congressman, and bring out these data as if you were solely entrusted with the release of this encryption. I therefore ask, Mr President, that the House Committee examine whether there has been an abuse in this case and report on this before the Parliament. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-04-25-112	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Under the Rules of the House, the meeting of the House Committee should also be convened until the end of the meeting. Therefore, this will be taken in the coming period, and you will be notified as well. Thank you. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Attorney General an immediate question: What was on the menu at his secret meeting with György Matolcsy? ! Is it the MNB Foundations or the Quaestor case arrangement? It's an address. Congressman Tamás Bellozó has the floor.
u2016-04-25-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. At the beginning of March, on Thursday, 10 March, you had a pleasant restaurant meeting with the President of the Hungarian National Bank, György Matolcsy, about which a picture was then taken, and according to your official communication, you spoke about the complaints made by the MNB. Allegedly. In hindsight, however, the circumstances and timing of the meeting put the situation in a completely different light. You met after the Constitutional Court passed the shameful MNB law that Fidesz tried to force through the House, which would have made one of the greatest Barba tricks of all time disappear the nature of public money for more than HUF 200 billion. You then talked to the president of the Hungarian National Bank in a pleasant, friendly, kind of family environment. There are two questions: since then, the fact that the most direct relative of the Attorney General, his wife, is not only one of the heads of the MNB, but also the chairman and member of several of these companies' supervisory committees. I will not list them now, but in this capacity, he is a member and head of these foundations with a particular criminal responsibility for spending money here. The other question, of course, is that it has also become clear since then, Mr Attorney General, that in the Quaestor case, you have been unable to even make normal accusations. They have been arguing with the court ever since, in a case in which the Hungarian National Bank is also involved, since Hungary has managed to carry out the greatest brokerage scandal of all time in the case of its responsibility and supervisory powers. So I ask Mr Attorney General what they spoke about at this meeting, and because of his personal involvement, what the consequences of these questions will be. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-04-25-114	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The immediate question will be answered by Attorney General Péter Polt. I give you the floor.
u2016-04-25-115	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Congressman! You spoke of a secret meeting in the title of the question, which, I believe, was secretly revealed and photographed by one of your fellow politicians, without saving his or her life and safety. Maybe you watch a little too many spy movies. This happened in a public place, in a restaurant, during opening hours, and I don't think there was any conspiracy that would give rise to such a secret meeting. Of course, there's something to talk to the President of the National Bank and the Attorney General. There have been a number of recent crimes, including the Quaestor case you mentioned, whose general experience needs to be deducted. According to the Criminal Procedure Act, it is also necessary to take measures to prevent such crimes and all criminal matters. These have been done by means of IT conditions that have really given us the opportunity to draw general experience. [[16.20]] That's what we shared with each other. I told you what questions were raised, not specifically about the case, and Mr President reported on the audit experience of the National Bank. I believe that this is perfectly normal, acceptable in every rule of law, and gives no cause for doubt. And I assure you that if there is any suspicion of a crime at any time, the prosecution will proceed in that case, no matter what crime and what person it is. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-25-116	Thank you, Mr. Attorney General, for your answer. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2016-04-25-117	Attorney General, let's just talk about the most important issue. What you are trying to say to the entire Hungarian public is that you, as the supreme guardian of legality, have nothing to say or have no obligation in the matter that your wife is personally involved in matters around the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank, and that you have a criminal responsibility for what happened there, and that you have nothing to do with it, not even a sentence. Mr. Attorney General. We believe that it would be the only decent thing to do to save the prosecutor's office, which has been burdened by you for many years, and the work and integrity of honest prosecutors, if you give up your position as attorney general, until - but not until the affairs of the Hungarian National Bank are investigated fairly. In Quaestor's case, Zoltán Kovács, government spokesperson, may ask what the people's anger is like. I don't think you should wait for the D.A.'s office to reach out to you on a case in which you can't even press charges. Third, and that's my personal comment. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] - ten seconds, please - I think in a normal country, Mr. Attorney General, after Dezső Believing, you should have resigned anyway. Thank you so much for listening.
u2016-04-25-118	Dear Parliament, Mr. Attorney General is entitled to a rejoinder. The time supplement, of course, also applies to the Attorney General. I give you the floor.
u2016-04-25-119	Congressman, you threatened me, and I strongly reject that. 1. You claim that someone, my wife, committed a crime. I don't think there's even a procedure. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: I did not say that!]] That's what you said, Congressman. 2. There are appropriate procedural rules for this. Otherwise, the Attorney General - perhaps it would be good to study the Fundamental Law a little - is not the supreme guardian of legality. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: No, but that's what we expect.]] 3. Sir, The fact that you, as I would say, draw conclusions on a case, I believe that it is a private opinion and a political opinion, not the procedure of the authorities. 4. To reassure you, not you, but the public, we just filed an indictment in the Buda-Cash case in the same way as in the Quaestor case. The court took him in, didn't cause a problem with the proper grouping of evidence, and set a trial on June 30th. We'll have that on the Quaestor case. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: What about Dezső's case?]]
u2016-04-25-120	I thank the Attorney General for his reply back. Dear Parliament, János Volner, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Would you like to answer the question, who is Árpád Habony, who you deny?" It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár Prime Minister's head of the Prime Minister's Office to respond to the urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he will personally ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
u2016-04-25-121	I'll wait for the Prime Minister, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-25-122	Thank you, Congressman. Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Mr.Előd Novák, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. On the occasion of Earth Day, can you explain why Prime Minister Viktor Orbán told Zoltán Orbán that the left-wing issue of environmental protection, the issue of rich countries, hinders economic development, we cannot spend on this? It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár Prime Minister's head of the Prime Minister's Office to respond to the urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Prime Minister personally for an answer.
u2016-04-25-123	Are you deaf? ! We could ask Viktor Orbán the same question from his government...
u2016-04-25-124	Congressman, I'm asking your answer.
u2016-04-25-125	Well, exactly what I'm saying is that Zoltán Elijah cried out for his words in the wilderness...
u2016-04-25-126	Do you or do you not accept the person of the responder?
u2016-04-25-127	...but I think it would be good if...
u2016-04-25-128	Congressman!
u2016-04-25-129	So, with respect, I'll wait. Thank you.
u2016-04-25-130	I expect your answer with respect.
u2016-04-25-131	I'll do the same.
u2016-04-25-132	Thank you. Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Mr.Gábor Staudt, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Attorney General an immediate question: "Why did the prosecutor turn his back on the antifreeze winemaker, or which of the senior prosecutors, by name, have the responsibility of revoking the prosecution's appeal for the relief, and throwing ashes at his head, regretting that he did not ask for an aggravate? It's an address. Congressman Gábor Staudt has the floor.
u2016-04-25-133	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Mr. Attorney General. In the case of the antifreeze winemaker, the spokesperson of the Pest County Public Prosecutor's Office, after the verdict, said that the defendant had received a more serious sentence than the prosecutor's office held proportionately, and filed an appeal for relief, because according to the D.A.'s office, the defendant did not even want to kill a man in the first place. The court pronounced him guilty of attempted manslaughter and manslaughter endangering the lives of several people, and sentenced the winemaker to seven years in prison. Compared to this, it was reported as a bomb that the Attorney General's Office of Appeal withdrew the appeal for absolution and, according to their statement, if they could and had legal opportunity, they would propose a more serious rating and a more serious penalty. The above case raises several questions. On the one hand, the issue of legitimate protection, its effectiveness. Due to the settlement and disorder of similar cases, I also initiated a legislative amendment, which was swept down by MSZP and Fidesz at the committee stage by saying that the judgment of the wine farmer is absurd, but the second degree will put this whole matter in order, and it is not a legislative issue. The independence of court prosecutors is another issue, since we see that by law superior prosecutors can instruct negotiators and order practically anything, despite the fact that it is the negotiator who took part in the trial, who has the most information. Based on the above, I would like to ask Mr. Attorney General why the prosecutor's turn on the antifreeze wine farm could take place, and could any citizen who is trying to protect his or her assets and person in the future interpret this as a clear message. I would also like to know who, by name, is the senior prosecutor responsible for withdrawing the appeal for the relief. Mr. Attorney General, I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-25-134	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Attorney General Péter Polt.
u2016-04-25-135	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, You asked about a specific but still ongoing case. Let me say that, which, by the way, was left out of my previous reply due to a lack of time, we should always wait for the final decision to be taken on this matter, and even if there is an exceptional remedy after the final decision. As far as the specific issue is concerned, I believe that it should be assumed that, under the current rules, a superior prosecutor has the right to override the work of the prosecution under it and to change its decision. That's what happened in the present case. In this case, the issue of qualification and the qualification also led to conflicting opinions within the prosecutor's office, as did the prosecutor's office and the court at first instance. His professional opinion was maintained by everyone, and as a result, the superior prosecutor's office eventually withdrew the appeal you referred to. At the same time, the case will continue at second instance, and the court will, by means of a defence appeal, examine the circumstances which the prosecutor indicated in his original appeal. I believe that, compared to the outcome of the trial, the prosecutor will state in the second-degree procedure which position he ultimately considers appropriate. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-25-136	Thank you, Mr. Attorney General, for your answer. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt in return. [[16.30]]
u2016-04-25-137	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You know, Mr Attorney General, the problem is that it is the laws that are wrong then, if you were able to interpret completely the opposite of what happened there and to withdraw an appeal for relaxation, and to say that you should have appealed for an aggravation then, you should have accepted it, and I say to my fellow Members, the motion that I will re-submit with regard to legitimate protection. So this is already a legislative issue, and then, what Mr. Attorney General has said as a formal and higher position, we can see as your position that, in this case, the D.A. considers the seven-year sentence to be too mild. Overruled the negotiators, I don't know why you could answer that, but then by withdrawing it, they admitted that they had made a decision to send messages to citizens protecting their personal and property so that they wouldn't. The state won't protect them, but it seems they can't if they don't want to go to jail for years. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-25-138	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr. Attorney General is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2016-04-25-139	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Congressman, you must have misunderstood me. I did not take a position on this matter, as the Attorney General does not take a position on a specific matter. The Attorney General takes a position on general matters, principles, and runs the prosecutor's organization. I said that contrary opinions were formed, as in the courts, first, second and even third degree, and I said that we should wait until the end, compared to the outcome of the trial, it would be possible to say whether the punishment and the qualification that was finally imposed in the first degree was correct. After a second-degree decision, we can go back to whether there is work to be done either in the field of law enforcement or in the area of legislation. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-25-140	Thank you, Mr. Attorney General, for your answer. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister for National Development an immediate question: "Dudes, parties, casinos? It's an address. Mr István Ikotity has the floor.
u2016-04-25-141	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Minister, The fight against gambling addiction is so important to the government that the 9th Hungarian casino will be opened at the end of summer, this time in Győr. From the investigative report of the RTL Club, we know what links Fidesz-KDNP and Minister are to the new casino in Győr. The new casino is Treff Klub Kft. Zoltán Rákosfalvi, who manages the affairs of a lawyer from Győr, including the Fidesz municipality in Győr, is the owner of this, and the managing director is Zsolt Kruppa, a former acquaintance of Minister Zsolt from Kisvárda. It is known that your families are connected by business relations, but you have already been assisted by Minister Zsolt Kruppa as a lawyer in various corporate matters. They obviously know each other well, you might say, after all these business relationships, maybe they're good friends. Just as Andy Vajna or Gábor Sima did not have any experience in gambling operations before, neither did Minister Gábor. He owns a gardening business in America, or he was doing real estate rentals. But now he's going to be the manager of the casino in Győr with a lot of profits. Only last year, a record number of visitors came to casinos, 1.2 million people, who generated a record income of about HUF 180 billion. After that, only a few billion HUF is to be paid into the budget as a toy tax. As a result of the gifted casinos, there is also a free tax. Even the NAV doesn't check them properly. Dear Minister, What role did you personally play in accessing your old friend's casino? How does that work, Minister? Anyone who can be trusted, an old friend, gets a casino? Or was it just a coincidence that after Andy Vajna and Gábor Sima, Minister's good friend got a casino and could run a billion-dollar business? I'm waiting for your answer. [[A rare applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2016-04-25-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Miklós Seszták.
u2016-04-25-143	Mr President, Dear fellow Member, I'd like to inform you of two things. I suggest you do something: if you want to be sure of anything, don't use the fact-finding report from RTL, because, let's just say, the truth isn't in it. The other is that according to the Hungarian company law rules, who is the managing director of a company, he is not the owner of the company. So your claim that the person in question got a casino is physically out of the question. The third thing I would like to say to you, read the legislation, is that concession law is not decided by the minister of the NFM. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2016-04-25-144	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2016-04-25-145	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Of course, we know that it is not your decision to make, but your colleague's decision. My question is, obviously, did you know that your friend applied for this casino and informed his colleague, the competent minister, that a friend of yours was applying for it? For we have seen so many times in recent years that every case like this is won by Andy Vajna or by Gábor Sima or by Árpád Habony. We think so many coincidences can't work that way. There's gotta be something in the background. We think, Minister, that it is true that the Turkish proverb, which sounds that it is not fair enough, must also be seen. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: This is not Turkish. Kósan's Magda Kovács.]]
u2016-04-25-146	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Minister. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2016-04-25-147	Yeah. I just want to confirm that Zsolt Kruppa didn't win casino rights. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-25-148	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Péter Ágh, a representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. Everyone can see, but the Socialists can't? It's an address. Minister Károly Kontra has appointed Secretary of State to respond to the urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person of the responding [[Péter Ágh: Thank you very much, I accept.]] Or ask the Minister himself for an answer. Yes, you have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-04-25-149	Dear Secretary of State, From the beginning of the illegal immigration crisis, the Government of Hungary has taken the same position. External borders must be protected, rules must be respected. Uncontrolled masses cannot march through Europe, including our country. Currently, Hungary's previous critics acknowledge that only the Hungarian solution works, the European Union is already focusing on the protection of external borders, and we can see that several countries have closed their green borders with fences. At the same time, representatives of MSZP and DK have said in the press that they do not support border defence procurement because they do not see that the means to be acquired would really help border protection. The Social Liberal opposition has previously opposed the provision of the southern border section, and all existing things have been challenged in this regard. Their basic position is to oppose border protection, the technical border closure and Hungary's ability to stop migration at the border. Unfortunately, on this basis, we can say that if it were up to the left-wing parties, Hungary would today be full of potential terrorists. They contradicted all the measures the Government has taken to stop this. However, Hungary has been freed from the fact that the events caused by illegal migration can happen here as well. Dear Secretary of State, The measures previously introduced have brought their results. These border protection measures must be maintained in order to guarantee the safety of Hungarian citizens. In view of this, I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether all procurement and measures concerning border protection really contribute to the security and control of Hungary's borders. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-25-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary Károly Kontra.
u2016-04-25-151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to state here in front of this House that all procurement and measures affecting border protection will help Hungary's security and the security of the Hungarian people. Allow me to thank the representatives of Fidesz and KDNP here in front of this House, who supported these decisions so that we can make these purchases. In the last year Hungary has been subject to historical migration, hundreds of thousands of illegal migrants have entered the territory. But the measures taken, when we created physical protection, the temporary security barrier from 15 September and 15 October 2015, created the laws on legal protection, and carried out the lively protection, we conducted border hunting centuries on the southern border, and we also used the forces of the defence, so this triple protection and the material sacrifice we made, we spent HUF 85 billion in the last year for this purpose, for border protection Hungary, for the security of the Hungarian people, so these measures were effective, and they brought the result that we had expected before the measures were taken. But we can never be satisfied, there are always new challenges. Since January, illegal migration at the southern border has been revived again, so the government has decided to physically strengthen the southern border. [[16.40]] To this end, he has put forward his proposal for procurement and measures to promote the necessary border protection, and I would like to thank the Members, all the Members who supported it in the committee. I would like to say that we are determined, we protect Hungarian people, we protect Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-25-152	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Agh in return.
u2016-04-25-153	Thank you for your reply, Mr Secretary of State, I think you have shown me what a decisive battle the government has conducted at the southern border section. However, we can also say that if it were up to the left-wing parties, Hungary would indeed be full of potential terrorists today, because the socialists were pro-immigration all along. They did not support the tightening of immigration rules, they did not support the construction of the fence, and they did not support the use of defence at borders, even though it has become clear that these measures have helped us to avoid the challenges posed by illegal migration. With all due respect, I would ask the government to continue to stand up for the protection of the Hungarian people, and at the same time I would like to thank each police officer and soldier for the sacrifice they are doing there on the southern border. Unfortunately, it will continue to be necessary. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-25-154	Thank you, Congressman. Mr Károly Kontra is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-04-25-155	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to reassure you that the government is determined to act effectively against terrorism, because, as you said, some terrorist groups have tried to settle for illegal migration. It is enough to refer to the brutal terrorist attack in Paris or Brussels, which cannot be condemned enough. The Government of Hungary is doing everything in its power to protect Hungarian people, and there is also a need for legal instruments, so I would like to announce that this week the Parliament will start negotiating the bill to amend the laws relating to counter-terrorism. Here we amend more than 23 laws to ensure that Hungary is prepared, protect its citizens, protect the country, protect the Hungarian people against terrorism. I ask you, all Members of Parliament, to support this very important bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-25-156	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Bertalan Tóth, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question. It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public mission. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2016-04-25-157	Yes, thank you, I accept.
u2016-04-25-158	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-04-25-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, One of the biggest scandals in Hungary has started to fall off in the last month. As you know before you - I hope you don't have a little silly Nokia as Szilárd Németh - so, as you know, all your attempts to keep secrets failed György Matolcsy, and from the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank in the last month, it has become clear to everyone that the public money does not lose public money because it is entrusted to György Matolcsy. And it turns out that the central bank has distributed billions of public money to friends and relatives instead of actually using it for the benefit of the common good or for the fulfilment of its basic tasks. This scandal can undoubtedly be extremely embarrassing for György Matolcsy, in other normal countries the President of the Central Bank would have resigned long ago, but it is also embarrassing for the Central Bank and for some conscientious and innocent journalists. But there is a range of scandals that could put the Minister of National Economy in an awkward position. And that's because the MNB's foundations are buying sovereign debt. Dear Secretary of State, As is known, the foundations created by the National Bank have put more than HUF 200 billion of public money into Hungarian sovereign debt. With this decision, the central bank financed the Hungarian State through the foundations. In Hungarian, the freshly printed money covered 0.7-0.8 percent of the budget deficit. This is prohibited by both the EU Treaty and the Central Bank Act. That is what the European Central Bank has said on several occasions. On this basis, I ask Mr Secretary: what did you know? Did you know about the tricky monetary funding? Did you know that the Hungarian National Bank financed Hungary through the Pallas Athena Foundations? Did the government know that the foundations were supposed to buy sovereign debt and finance the budget? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-04-25-160	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2016-04-25-161	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The management of the Hungarian National Bank is no longer mentioned in Parliament for the first time. [[Interview from MSZP's so-sorrai: And how long will it last! It'll be a matter of months.]] I told you then, I would like to tell you now, but you should also know that the Hungarian National Bank is an independent institution that belongs to the Parliament. He reports to the Parliament every six months, to the Economic Committee. The President of the Hungarian National Bank and his deputy can be asked in person in Parliament. A written, oral question can be asked to the government. He doesn't give orders, he doesn't give orders, and the government doesn't take advantage of this opportunity, he doesn't take advantage of it, because he follows these laws, these laws. The same applies, of course, to the management and decision of the Hungarian National Bank. If the Magyar Nemzeti Bank establishes a foundation and the foundation operates legally, it has a board of trustees, obviously the responsible managers make decisions about the foundation. So to suggest that the government, the Minister of National Economy or the Ministry, or anyone from the Ministry, from the government, has an influence on the management of the Hungarian National Bank, in violation of its independence, is nothing more than a political slander. Your speech is nothing more than the weakening of the independence of the Hungarian National Bank, the weakening of the Hungarian National Bank's responsible role in Hungary's life, the Hungarian financial system and its difficulty in fulfilling its task. You have nothing else to do with this speech, that's all. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties. Interview from the lines of the MSZP: You have to tap.]]
u2016-04-25-162	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. In return, I give the floor to Congressman Bertalan Tóth.
u2016-04-25-163	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I resent that the opposition has any responsibility in this regard, because the former Minister of Economic Affairs, and now the President of the Central Bank, who you are very fond of, has also taken decisions as Board Presidents, which are now available to the public, about how these foundations financed the companies of the Cousins of the Central Bank President. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Conk, stolen.]] In particular, the company of two of its cousins, how they provided various funds to various media, how the central bank president financed the publication of his own book, and how the foundations bought more than HUF 200 billion of sovereign debt. And from now on, you do have something to do with it, because if it's illegal monetary funding, then you're gonna be in trouble with the budget going back to the last few years. And the Ministry of National Economy does not deny that Mihály Varga, who exercises ownership rights, does have an influence on the formation of at least the statutes of the Hungarian National Bank as an exerciser of ownership rights. Thank you.
u2016-04-25-164	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, has a rejoinder. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-04-25-165	Honourable Congressman, Now let's see what the ideal Hungarian national banking policy is for the Hungarian Socialist Party, shall we? ! [[Dr. László Kács: No one asked.]] That's ideal, because you had a national bank president, András Simor [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: You don't have to tell us, we know.]] who puts his money in offshore companies abroad, whose salary is HUF 8 million, then takes his salary and assigns it to offshore companies. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] At the time, the salary of the President of the MNB was also highest in European comparison. Your strategy is the National Bank of Hungary, when the National Bank is losing money year after year, and the budget has to make up for it; when the government debt is constantly increasing and foreign reserves are constantly falling; when the base rates are high, the central bank base rate is high, and it is holding back the economy; when the number of foreign exchange loans and the number of vulnerable people in Hungary is increasing; when banks are out of control and inflation is kept high. Now, this is your Hungarian national banking model. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-25-166	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. We stand in Czech: If György Matolcsy ordered a Czech salary, why can't health pay be raised to the Czech level? It's an address. [[16.50]] The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2016-04-25-167	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2016-04-25-168	Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-04-25-169	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, To stand in Czech means to stand badly, but if the President of the Central Bank stands in Czech, it means something completely different. György Matolcsy, the parent of the very generous central bank foundations in spending, has argued in recent days about his own salary - which has increased to HUF 5 million - that he deserves it because he deserves it, just as the president of the Czech central bank makes so much and feels that he works as well as his Czech colleague. Many of us feel that we are working as well as the Czechs, and we would be happy to stand as Czech residents, yet there are sectors that would be particularly happy to have them caught up in Czech wages at least. Because Czech or, if you like, it is not the Czech wage level for health or social workers. The workers in the health sector are the top-of-the-line until the workers in the social sector receive last-class and last-place wages. If we look at the monthly earnings of György Matolcsy, who has lost billions through missing health foundations, we see that a doctor with a work experience of 45 years, who has a degree in science, earns an entire year's salary by President Matolcsy, but if we watch a 30-year-old worker who earns 124 thousand HUF, the President of the Central Bank earns 40 times more than he does 40 times a month. It is therefore necessary to work to raise the salary of the staff in some way, primarily for the poorest groups, the workers, and we believe that a substantial increase in wages could be started from which the President of the Central Bank manages. That 250 billion forint would be plenty. Jobbik will provide for amendments to the budget that will allow health workers to come up with the Czech standard. The question is whether Hungarian health workers work as well as their Czech colleagues and, like the President of the Central Bank, they deserve to be paid as much as the Czech colleagues do. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-25-170	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-04-25-171	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In recent years, almost no year has passed since 2012 without some kind of development and wage development in health care, while the building itself, the infrastructure and the equipment could be renewed for HUF 500 billion. In 2012-2013, the first period of wage development was when the wages of healthcare workers increased on average by 23 percent. This meant a total of HUF 75 billion plus that we were able to deliver to this sector. This was due to the reforms carried out by Matolcsy - then Minister for Finance, Minister for Economic Affairs - and to the extra performance of the economy that we were able to form a basis for wage development in health care. This was followed by last year when, in the second half of the year, we were able to raise the mobile pay elements - on-call fees, overwork fees and the like - to the same extent as before, the basic wage. Between the two, you know, we also tried to help the situation of the primary care workers with the residency program, the residency application, and the practice contest, plus HUF 10 billion. In addition to the residency program, we launched the young specialist program, and last week we started the negotiations on the 2017 budget, with various sectoral organisations, medical chambers, hospital associations, as well as the professional association, as well as the Health Workers' Union to discuss these discussions together, with the additional resources of over 100 billion forints from which healthcare will be an additional source in 2017, what long-term programs we can launch, how we can make every year better financial situation for everyone. Honourable Congressman, This is what we do, not the mediation of Hungarian doctors abroad, like you or your relatives. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-25-172	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. The congressman has a rejoinder. Here you go. [[Attila Gelencsér takes over his notary seat.]]
u2016-04-25-173	It seems that the government is not only in Czech for wages, but also at odds with facts, but it is worth considering that the same government or almost unchanged government has been promising wage increases since 2010. And since 2010, a career model has been waiting for itself, which if it had been started, we would not have been here long ago to ask for what not only Jobbik, but also professional organisations have asked for, since this letter itself and the whole wording has been launched by the 1001 Doctor without any Thanksgiving money Group, as they themselves feel as a credible professional representative, as doctors working in it, as health professionals working in it, that their wages are statistically demonstrably at the bottom of the European standard, and countries such as Romania, countries like Slovakia or the Czech Republic are already in the market... - indeed, there are certain regions of the country where healthcare workers go to receive decent wages. So, in any case, the government, if not Czech, must take up a job in this case, but the Czech standard to which the wages of healthcare workers should be raised without bluffing. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-25-174	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, please.
u2016-04-25-175	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The government is working on developing, together with sectoral organisations, the way in which, next year, the following year, both nursing wages and medical wages will rise in Hungary, so that everyone will feel better about the value of their work here when they work in publicly funded hospitals. These measures may not only appear and result in wage increases, but also in the fact that, for example, in the case of young doctors applying for residency, while this number was around 480 in 2010, it rose to around 920. More than doubled the number of young people who think that they will start their medical activities here in Hungary, and, of course, the number of foreign work permits has also decreased. I quickly looked at the website, Premiumdoctors.hu, which you had registered at the time, and then quickly transferred to the name of one of your relatives. Indeed, Belgium, Austria, the United Kingdom, Sweden, Germany, France, Ireland, Switzerland and Denmark are the only countries in Europe to which your company or the company you registered has supplied doctors. Indeed, the Czech Republic does not appear here. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-25-176	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr László Földi, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question:, Is there any possibility for the government to build a national hail response system? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr.György Czerván as Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2016-04-25-177	Yes, I accept.
u2016-04-25-178	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-04-25-179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, CLXVIII 2011 on the management of weather and other natural risks to agricultural production. Law 1 and the provisions of the Ministerial Decree issued for its implementation compensate for the damage caused by elementary events to cultivated plants. Thus, the compensation allowance may compensate for a loss in return of more than 30 per cent caused by the elemental event and a reduction in return value of more than 15 per cent at operational level. From 2015 onwards, farmers engaged in greenhouse and foil cultivation could also be part of the scheme for agricultural compensation, which was reformed in 2012. Due to the extreme weather of recent times, there has been an increase in occasional sudden precipitation and a particular problem when this precipitation comes in the form of ice and causes huge devastation. In order to prevent the damage to the ice, in Baranya, Tolna and Somogy, plants and hail relief were assembled as early as 1991. With the help of a soil generator, silver iodide is released into the air, which attracts water, preventing the formation of larger pieces of ice. Based on the information provided by the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy, in 2014 the production value of HUF 32 was thus saved. Dear Secretary of State, In order to preserve the competitiveness of Hungarian agriculture, and in addition to agricultural compensation, is the government also able to focus on prevention, whether financially or otherwise, to support the construction of a national hail control system? I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-25-180	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State György Czerván to answer. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[17.00]]
u2016-04-25-181	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As a result of climate change affecting our Earth, extreme weather phenomena are particularly sensitive to agriculture. As well as agricultural compensation and agricultural insurance premiums, there is an increasing emphasis on risk prevention, where prevention of hail damage can provide one of the highest added value for the agricultural sector and society. Ice rain can occur anywhere in the country, but an effective hail response system has so far been built in few areas. The example mentioned by you is a good example, the South-Transdanubian soil generator system that has been operating since 91. The FM pays particular attention to the development of hail relief into a national system, and the resources of the new rural development programme can also provide an opportunity to build a national hail response system. The National Chamber of Agricultural Economy has undertaken to establish the national soil generator hail relief system in the near future and to operate it, to which the FM otherwise provides all the technical and operational support necessary for its operation. Five dispatch centres are planned to be established with the country's position in five regions. By integrating soil generators operated in South Hungary and using newly acquired tools, a national system with about a thousand soil generators can be created. As a result of the operation of national hail response, we calculate that producer damage will decrease by about 40 to 70 percent in the future. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-25-182	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2016-04-25-183	Thank you for your reply, Mr Secretary of State, which is reassuring to me, all the more so, because more and more young farmers are entering production in our region, so to speak, more and more people are taking up land and entering both crop production and livestock production, and it is very important for the new farmers - but also for the old ones, of course - that the basic damage that has so far been a serious threat to their livelihood is supported by the government. [[Interjection in Jobbik's ranks: The damage?]] I trust that in the coming years this system will be built, and we can really prevent the basic damage that ice can cause to Hungarian agriculture. Thank you for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-25-184	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-04-25-185	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, As I mentioned earlier, we calculate about 40 to 70 percent of the ice damage by building the new system. Otherwise, the compensation fund will continue to work, after this year approximately HUF 23 billion is expected to be available in the compensation fund for various natural damages, elemental damage, such as last Thursday's spring frost damage. Moreover, another very important element of the planned ice compensation system is that its operation will not burden farmers in the context of its national implementation, which will be financed from the compensation fund, but we would like to encourage producers to contribute on a voluntary basis to the operation of this system. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-25-186	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Hungary performs better: billions for billionaires? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to an urgent public task. I ask you whether you accept the person of the response or ask the Prime Minister personally for an answer.
u2016-04-25-187	I apologize to the Minister, but I'll wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you very much. [[Dezső, gullible in the notary seat, is replaced by Adam Mirkóczki.]]
u2016-04-25-188	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question. About what? It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. The Minister has appointed Mr László Szabó State Secretary to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the congresswoman whether she accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister for the answer personally. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: Yes, I accept.]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-04-25-189	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, According to press reports, the state-owned Hungarian National Trading House Zrt. can spend more than HUF 10 billion on the establishment of commercial offices in different parts of the world. Magyar Nemzeti Kereskedőház Zrt. First he became the center of interest when Minister Szijjártó and Csaba Tarsoly, head of the Quaestor brokerage company, opened the Moscow trading house, and later unfortunately when the Quaestor broker company fell in, in which the Minister supervised trading house Zrt. He held HUF 3.8 billion in public money, this money was withdrawn on the day of Quaestor's fall, obviously based on well-informed information. For the record, hundreds of thousands of small taxpayers didn't have any inside information. Another interesting fact is that although the slogan on the website of the state trading houses is,, 4 continents, nearly 40 countries, 3 billion-dollar markets, it is not clear exactly where the company is, where its offices are, whether they are owned or rented, i.e. how much it costs to taxpayers and whether the investment is worth. Maybe this smokescreen isn't a coincidence? It's enough to take one example, Azerbaijan. Orbán called it a model state in the Hungarian Parliament when the bilateral strategy paper was signed in November 2014. This model state has since fallen due to the collapse of oil prices. The dictatorships and semi-dictatures around the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are now falling into a deep crisis. The opening of the East did not work - Minister Szijjártó admitted at a forum held by the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry in February. Well, we can totally agree with that. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Secretary of State, what is the guarantee that the new 10 billion-dollar project will not be to support Fidesz residents who travel in foreign trade, the recapitalisation of Csaba Tarsoly? [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2016-04-25-190	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State László Szabó, who will answer the question.
u2016-04-25-191	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I must say that I have good news, because what the trading house was famous for last year, and there was a lot of news about it in the press, is that 2015 was a year of record. 2015 was the first year in which this integrated, new external economic system - which was the establishment of the diplomatic economic focus on the one hand and the establishment of the external economic background institutions, namely Magyar Kereskedőház Zrt. and Eximbank and HIPA, the Investment Agency on the other hand - was able to achieve what we wanted and what we set for each other. There is practically no external economic objective and there is no external economic indicator that has not reached a record in the last year. We have exported EUR 90.7 billion, with an increase of 7.4 percent compared to the previous year. Our foreign trade surplus was also the largest figure ever, EUR 8.1 billion, a 28 percent increase. These records could not have been reached without very serious export promotion. That's what the trading house does. By the way, Hungary spends one of the least of its exports in the region, so I have good news for you: this cost is worth it, and even better news, I feel that the profit is generated by companies, Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. Practically more than 4 thousand Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises are now in contractual relations with Hungarian National Trading House Zrt. Last year they exported HUF 760 billion, last year they exported HUF 830 billion, which is a 9 percent increase. Eximbank loaned loans to small and medium-sized enterprises in excess of HUF 500 billion, and now has more than EUR 2 billion in loans to small and medium-sized enterprises, while HIPA has been able to add more than one and a half percent of Hungarian GDP and EUR 1.4 billion to the Hungarian economy through 67 projects. I feel that we should be proud of what Magyar Nemzeti Kereskedőház Zrt. has done, and I hope that it will continue to be famous for this. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-25-192	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return.
u2016-04-25-193	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. However, we do not know exactly where the company is, whether it is owned or leased. What you listed as how they contributed to economic development is too general numbers. [[17.10]] The HUF 10 billion is not little that you want to invest in this now, especially if, for example, we add 100 billion forints for next year's health care, ten times that. We do not think that there is a need for offices that do not pay back, so what you have listed does not prove at all that they will be repaid, because others can also result in economic growth and export success, which you have listed. We see, as Minister Szijjártó said, that the Eastern opening policy did not work. We therefore consider it important to review the Eastern opening policy and this foreign economic policy. Thank you.
u2016-04-25-194	Thank you, Congresswoman. The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-04-25-195	Congresswoman, if you'll allow me, I'd like to argue whether the Eastern opening policy worked. Despite the fact that the Russian economy is on the verge of collapse; that our exports to Ukraine also decreased by 25 percent; that, for example, the Nokia plant's mobile phone exports to the Arab world stopped completely after 2013, despite the increase in our exports to the east. I am also very happy to help you, although this can be found on the website of the trading house, which countries we are present in. I've got that list right here. [[He's showing it to me.]] I will give it to you where we open offices in 45 countries, and we will renew contracts now; and we will also open four centres of competence, which will be obtained in full public, transparent and public procurement. I trust that you, as well as other objective external institutions, recognise how successful Hungary is. The fDi Magazine, published by the Financial Times, classified Budapest as the most attractive investment destination last year and this year, even Győr was chosen as such an attractive Central-Eastern European target. Site Selection magazine and Forbes have made Hungary the world's most promising investment site. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-25-196	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Legény, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question:. The Fidesz-led municipalities, such as Dombrad, are not subject to the law? It's an address. Congressman Zsolt Legányi should take the floor.
u2016-04-25-197	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, I have to start by saying that, unfortunately, there has been a mistrial in the title, and I do not want to talk about the city of Dombrad, although there is something to talk about, but I would like to ask Minister about the city of Demecher. Dear Minister, Demecser is a town of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county, six representatives and one mayor sit on its representative board. After the municipal elections in October 2014, the board and the mayor stood up and started working together. Unfortunately, over the last roughly one and a half years, the situation has turned out to be - the reasons for which, of course, I do not want to discuss it here in the House - that the work does not seem to go together with the Members and the Mayor. As a result, on 30 March 2016, four of the six municipal representatives initiated a meeting of the extraordinary meeting in writing with the municipality, indicating the item on the agenda, namely CLXXXIX of 2011 on the local governments of Hungary. Law 44. The meeting was initiated in accordance with Section 3 of the Rules of Procedure, indicating the item on the agenda at the address of the dissolution of the city's body of representatives. 44th of this law. §2 of the Act provides quite clearly and clearly: the meeting shall be convened for a period of 15 days on the motion of one quarter of the municipal representatives, the panel committee and the head of the government office to convene the panel meeting. On the basis of the motion, the Board meeting shall be convened by the mayor to determine the reasons, time, location and agenda for the board meeting. On 30 March, the representatives of the municipality, four of the six representatives of the municipality, initiated the meeting, and since then the meeting has not been convened. In addition, the representatives of the local government also submitted these submissions to the county government office. The fact that the mayor didn't convene the board meeting is very regrettable, but the county government office didn't do anything to ensure that the municipality would act legally and that the laws would call this board meeting together. I ask you, Minister, if you wish to do something about this matter, because you also have government offices. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-25-198	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. You have the floor, Minister.
u2016-04-25-199	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Member, First of all, thank you for asking, despite the fact that there was a mistake in the name. And thank you very much for the information I have received on this. Here's the answer to the question. I ordered Mr. Peter Kozma, a government commissioner, to examine the situation in Demecser out of the question. What I can tell you is that the mayor's office has also spoken to the mayor's office, given that the mayor doesn't think it's legal to convene the council. He considered that the formal arrangements for the convening of the body of representatives, such as the indication of the budget place for the necessary decision, were not followed by the initiative of our fellow Members, local representatives, and therefore he considered the initiative to convene the body of representatives to be wrong in form. This, of course, I believe, is not sufficient, so I asked Mr Kozma, the government commissioner, to take urgent action, and if the members of the body of representatives re-submit their initiative to the mayor, now followed by the government office, then the assembly of the body of representatives should be convened immediately. So I took care of this with Peter Kozma, the government commissioner. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-25-200	Thank you very much, Minister. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2016-04-25-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, thank you, of course, for your answer. It is not my place to judge why the employment relationship between the mayor and the municipal representatives has deteriorated, but it is quite interesting that Mr. Mayor wrote in a flyer that I reserve the right to convene and order the disbanding of the board by the time I see it as the least detrimental to our city. Minister, I think that Mr Mayor is also clearly subject to Hungarian law, and the law on local authorities is also clearly applicable, if such a submission had been received, he should have done so within 15 days, he did not do so. The reference to the budgetary implications of this, by the way, is quite simply, I'm sorry, it's ridiculous. So - and I understand that you have instructed the county government commissioner to comply with the laws - it will be a comfort to me if this situation is clearly resolved there. So I hope this happens as soon as possible. In my opinion, they should not re-submit this to Members, but, of course, if the county government will ask them to do so, they will probably do so immediately. Thank you very much, Minister.
u2016-04-25-202	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2016-04-25-203	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that our four local colleagues initiated the assembly of the body of representatives on 30 March, I consider it appropriate to refer again to the mayor. However, given that we do not live in Demecser, I am looking at the events with sufficient distance. It's a big charm that local public life at least has emotions. Compared to that, a Monday afternoon parliamentary session is flat, such as the sentiments of local public life or local politics or the various local debates on Demecser matters. The government doesn't want to interfere. We want to guarantee legality, of course, but who is right in a debate, we will not take a stand in that, it is not our job, nor can we say from here. My conviction - from experience, I say, I have been involved in such a case between 1998 and 2000 - is that when the relationship between the body of representatives and the mayor is infinitely corrupted, it is advisable to give back confidence to voters so that they can make order. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-25-204	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, It's 5:18 p.m., and we've reached the end of the immediate questioning. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain health legislation and the discussion of the draft amending proposal follow up. The government referral is T/10099. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Mr Imre Pesti, rapporteur of the committee. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2016-04-25-205	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I hereby inform the Parliament that on 21 April 2016 the Legislative Committee discussed T/10099. The Committee presented a bill amending certain health legislation and presented 19 amendments and summary reports, together with 1 sex and 7 abstentions. [[17.20]] The summary proposal contains only the motion of the People's Welfare Committee, which I would like to highlight the most important of its provisions. The amended text of the bill also defines tactical medicine. By this, the standard text means that in the area of operation defined and closed by the law enforcement body, the designated department of the law enforcement body, its healthcare provider, carries out health activities. This activity differs from the general order and therefore specific regulation is necessary. Police medic activity means first aid by police bodies, built into police action, which also takes place under special circumstances, and therefore requires special regulation. On the e-cigarette issue, I would also like to say here that there is a debate going on in the world today, that the American and European literature has different views, so we cannot decide that there is no common professional position that electric cigarettes help to quit, or that they support the habit of smoking. Therefore, I would like to ask with all due respect that we accept with loyalty to the profession that the State Secretariat must take a position on this matter. In addition to marketing in national tobacco shops, there are several arguments, which I myself consider to be appropriate regulation. Finally, I would like to point out that the bill before us, in line with the challenge of the age, will also provide the opportunity to declare a health emergency. As a number of elements of the proposal, the introduction of this institution is also forward-looking, and I therefore respectfully ask Members to support the proposal. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-25-206	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The minority opinion will now be presented within a 7-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman László György Lukács.
u2016-04-25-207	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As a minority opinion in the Legislative Committee, minority opinions and, if you like, positive opinions appeared, which will also appear in the presentation of the other committee. These are two, but, you might say, three themes. One of these issues was a criterion in the legislation relating to the imposition of tactical medicine and related health crisis, in which the legislation essentially defines the taxative conditions in which a medical emergency can be ordered and then opens a very wide and wide door to all orders regardless of the above reasons. In this context, it has been said that this is a rubber rule, or a wide-ranging rule opening a gate, in which it should be put in a much more precise way, if you would like to see the provisions before it being broken down by this (paragraph 4) in the legislation. However, there was also an amendment to this proposal, and it was obviously possible for the government to assess this, but this was not accepted. On the other hand, in relation to which there was a dispute or a counter-opinion, the possibility or obligation of health workers to notify working time arrangements, which was previously laid down in a 30-day and one-month rule in the Labour Code, i.e. one month before the day-to-day schedule for workers was announced, the current legislation shortens this period of communication to 15 days and the interval. It has been said and, obviously, it will be said that the State Secretariat has done so or has developed it to raise professional organisations. The most important thing here, then, is to mark which professional organisations - and I am sorry that this has been left out of the Legislative Committee, but it may be possible to correct this now - which professional organisations specifically asked for a half of the deadline to communicate the schedule of working time. In this regard, I heard only the opposite opinions during the professional consultation, and obviously the government is once again of a different opinion. Which is electronic. As regards cigarettes, I believe that overall, although it has now gone through a debate on what science or science from which countries considers its harmful or non-harmful effects, but even if it does have a negative impact, it is still possible not to involve the otherwise well-functioning and existing economic sector in an existing economic interest community, and that there is no reason why I should not speak in this language, that this is a major part of a trade-off linked to government parties. This is nothing more than market acquisition, and it is obvious that we could say that one of your health policyrs, Mrs Molnár's child, is also operating a trafic, and how exclaiming it is that the son of a person committed to health is profiting from the disease, but that is not what we are going to say, but we are saying that it is not appropriate to bring into a health gown the redesign and restructuring of an economic market. There can also be a debate and a scientific debate on what is healthy, what is harmful, but the economic side of the bill has been resolved before it, which has already been accepted by the majority, and there is only one supplement that is the same and a small addition to this. So I think that the e-cigi should not have given rise to the scientific debate, but to the economic debate, in which there was no reason to put this otherwise functioning and otherwise manageable market into the trades. All in all, these were sommas, which were formulated in the Legislative Committee as a minority opinion. I think that the government would still have had the opportunity to listen to them, but we look forward to the final vote. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-25-208	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to speak now or later in the debate. [[Dr. Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs: No, only at the end.]] At a later stage in the debate, Mr Secretary of State will have a 10-minute timeframe. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Bene Ildikó, rapporteur for the designated Welfare Committee. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-04-25-209	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The Committee on Welfare, as a designated committee, conducted a detailed discussion of the bill in accordance with the rules. Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs, State Secretary, took part in this debate, and János Mészáros and Attila Beneda, Deputy State Secretary, who gave a portfolio opinion on the amendments proposed by their representatives. This bill has received a total of seven amendments, and my fellow Members have already said, on the basis of both the majority and minority opinions, the fundamental amendments that we have discussed in the committee meeting. In fact, the 15 days or 30 days of working time were indeed among the most important proposals, as the Jobbik Group has suggested. In both the plenary debate and the Commission's debate, the Secretary of State and the professional organisations there have also confirmed that the 15-day deadline is indeed applicable to their request, precisely so that the working time schedule can be prepared accurately and well by colleagues. The electronic As regards cigarettes, I think that this should be preceded by a professional debate, and this has been done on several occasions in the Committee on Welfare of the People's Republic through other legislative proposals. As a healthcare worker, I confess that the help of quitting electronic cigarettes will not be achieved. [[István Szávay: That's not true!]] And technically... I would like to say this from a professional point of view, Mr President, that is obviously what we will probably be debating in the course of tomorrow, but I believe that we can support the position of the State Secretariat with a professional eye. Mr State Secretary said that the amendments to the bill were not supported by the wallet. An amendment has also been tabled, which is practically an amendment proposal tabled as a Commission amendment, which contains primarily clarifications, but has already been discussed by my fellow Members. [[17 .30]] After the end of the debate, the committee decided to adopt the report and adopted the report on the detailed debate. I also think it is important to mention that the bill regulates issues that are important in many respects. Although it is, let us say, a salad law, we know this, by opening several laws, it provides clarification in a number of areas, relying on practical experience. In the light of the above, I ask my fellow Members to support me. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-04-25-210	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Rig, who will present the Commission's minority opinion in a three-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-04-25-211	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Member, Luke, expressed the opinion which was also expressed as a minority opinion in the Committee on Welfare. The Health Salad Act itself is a good way to go in health care, but there are some concerns that have been raised at the committee meeting, whether in relation to the regulation of e-cigarettes or the provision of 15 days, the schedule of working hours. But there, the Secretary of State assured us that this was a request from professional representatives. If you can say that, it has been a refined, even demented version to 15 days. They may have asked for something smaller, which, I think, would have been opaque by now, and would have had incomprehensible consequences on the part of their employees. It should be added that this 15 days is not enough for a worker to plan ahead for the next month, because a lot of health workers, they have to admit, have a second job, and in their second job, they also have to give up the time frame they want to work there. We have also raised concerns about the health crisis, as there was such an opportunity in the previous regulation. In addition, in the bill before Parliament, the term "Emergency" was also published, which was even included as a subtitle in the legislation. In this way, the reasons for the bill show that there is a need for greater action by public authorities than normal operations, but the forces of the special legal order, disaster control and defence have also been mobilised, and there have been such provisions in flood-stricken areas, and this has been set as an example. All this seems logical and understandable, but there is a paragraph in the law before Parliament, in which it is declared with a noble simplicity that the health emergency can be declared with the approval of the minister even when there is no disaster, but there is no other way to ensure health tasks. In today's Hungarian reality, when and why such a thing can happen, it is probably only fantasy, unfortunately the law does not. It may be encouraging for patients and doctors that the duration of the medical emergency should not exceed ten days, but it does not provide for the number of times these ten days can be repeated. So we still have concerns. In the event of an emergency, the metropolitan and county government offices may temporarily modify the area limits of basic care in their area of competence, or even the boundaries of the supply area, and may shape the professional distribution of activities within outpatient and inpatient care. This may affect when a person needs to be sent to the hospital, can change the order of the patient referral, but can also appoint healthcare workers, even as a result of an increase in the migrant situation. In the current financing situation, the fact that medical material can be requested in an emergency cannot be irrelevant. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] and tools will be used from the state health reserve. You could have had a debate, but about the Secretary of State. [[The president's ringing again.]] We didn't get the right answer - but then I'd be back in nine minutes. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-25-212	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of two-minute speeches during the debate. I give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP Group, who has expressed his wish to speak in writing. Here you go.
u2016-04-25-213	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Once again, we were not surprised that the amendments had been voted off again at the committee meeting. I have now prepared a year-old material for a conference, and I would like to read it literally. You're cutting me off, Mr. President, in any way, so...
u2016-04-25-214	You have nine minutes, Congresswoman.
u2016-04-25-215	Yes, thank you very much. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In order to resolve health tensions, it is necessary to agree with policy, health care workers and society. In the last 25 years, health initiatives have always been judged, not professionally, but in the interests of politics. In order for something to change, we need to free the sector from the trap of politics. If we look at only one side, we can see that over five years, the sources of health have increased by 30 percent, the investment rate has also increased enormously, and in half a decade, EUR 1.7 billion has been spent on development in the sector. At the same time, it must also be admitted that the share of GDP in health spending in Europe remains the lowest, the last in terms of wages, and that the development of around HUF 500 billion has also taken place in areas where there has been no investment for decades. Not to mention the largest supply area, Budapest, where the investment rate is less than 1 percent, so despite the positive results, the convincing increasing numbers, it is clear that this is not enough to relieve the tension. At the same time, you need to take a deep breath and face the truth of hospitals. The current situation, which is expected not to improve on its own with an ageing society with increasing demand for supply, with continued migration, can only be changed by consensus, requires a long-term agreement with workers in the sector and with the government for at least five years. In addition, public expenditure on health should be increased as soon as possible, which could be increased to a greater extent if there were consensus on how this money should be spent. I don't know if you've figured out who this report was from: this was said by former Secretary of State for Health Gábor Zombor 2015. CHAPTER VI at a conference in the health sector on the 4th of October. If we read all this stuff, we won't be surprised why he resigned. He saw the problems, saw what was needed, but there was no government will. I asked Mr. Secretary of State the other day that, although Mr. Secretary of State has made a statement that if the OEP is terminated, you will resign, and I have said that I hope not, because at least we see from Mr. Secretary of State the goodwill and goodwill that we have seen from Mr. Secretary of State Sombor, we cannot see from the government itself that he would want to solve those just mentioned in a way or another way. One of the cornerstones of this salad law - I quote you, Secretary of State - is that today there are plenty of hospital beds for people, especially old people, who do not need active care, in the larger part of chronic beds there is social care. All of this by having the institutions carry out a number of labs and other tests to justify inmates. This can't go on! It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's Out of the 27,000 chronic hospital beds, as many as possible, they want to transfer from health care to the social sector, where more than 50,000 older people are already being cared for, and most of them already require care beyond social care. And about who and how much it costs, conflicting news can be read. It is not clear whether State aid, together with chronic beds, will be transferred to the social sector or, if not, where there will be additional resources for this care system. There's been a lot of news about this in the last few days, and there's been more and more raging news in the media about how much it's gonna cost the family to care for an elderly person. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if he knows anything forward-looking or new news to calm the moods. We'd like an answer to that. I would also like to ask you, Mr Secretary of State, that I know it is strange to ask such a question, why all improvements must be voted off. We understand that Fidesz-KDNP governs this country, but why do we have to when everyone tells us that health is on the verge of a cliff, or you could say that with one foot, the other half is missing, or is already in it. Why can't it be what the former Secretary of State said that it is necessary to agree with healthcare workers and with society itself on politics? Do it in at least one sector for the last two years, because we really need it. [[17.40]] That's what I'm asking the Secretary of State to do. I trust your good faith. I'm guessing that tomorrow we're gonna have a pretty tough debate here about the state of health. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-04-25-216	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches announced in writing. Congressman Lajos Rig has applied for a speech. I give you the floor. The faction has a total of 9 minutes. Here you go.
u2016-04-25-217	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Then I'll pick up where I left off. The legislation on the transfer of chronic and nursing beds and the establishment of a new social care system which forces the government to make a regulation could have triggered a debate at the meeting of the Welfare Committee, calling on the Government to draw up a regulation on the preparation of this draft and the implementation of the regulation itself. The problem is that a lot of doctors, hospital managers and workers only get news and news reports about chronic beds, chronic classes and their outsourcing through the written and read press and on TV. We didn't get any answers we wanted to get an answer to, like whether the amount that's been in funding for chronic beds, or whether it's going to be transferred to the social sphere, and it's going to make a bigger amount, or this whole supply system itself, just like the nursing classes, pay. Unfortunately, our idea is that this regulation and legislation will go this way, that the beds that are thus taken out of the healthcare system, as there is, of course, a part of it, we agree that there is no effective healing function, only a care mechanism, and this is characteristic of a large part of chronic beds. And 100 percent of nursing beds consist of this, for they bear in their name what kind of care is being provided on those beds. However, what remains of concern to us is that we still do not see it, and we will probably only face the fact that, after the regulation has been drawn up, a chronic bed, such as 17,000 beds, will be transferred to the social care system and paid there. This should appear in the register of families, or it will appear as a minus if we only think about a daily allowance of 3000 HUF, which is in most of the care classes. There was a similar loss of resources in the National Rescue Service when the medical transportation was removed from the rescue. It is also acknowledged that it is not the OMSZ's job to transport patients, since there are patients who are not being treated in emergency care, but who have a transport from hospital to hospital or are being hospitalized for a review. What got us thinking was the creation of branch drug stores for major events. This is a good idea, of course, because there is likely to be an increase in the need for headache medications, but what we have challenged and we would also like to have a definite yes or no response to the fact that medicines that can cause stunning effects with alcohol, such as Rivotrile, Xanax and other mood-promoting medicines, cannot be marketed there, as in my opinion it does not fall within the scope of such a huge event and do not replace this recipe there, who use this medicine, even on a regular basis. I trust that this will not strengthen the use of illegal drugs. That's about all we've come up with, and we'd like an answer to that, Mr. Secretary. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-04-25-218	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Member István Szávay, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2016-04-25-219	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Bene! When we first debated the restriction on the marketing and use of these electric cigarettes in the House, even under a salad law, quite amazing arguments have already been made, such as the fact that electric cigarettes are at least as harmful as smoking, and such beatings, that the cigarette charger battery is flammable. However, to such an amazing argument as you have just made in this debate that the use of electric cigarettes does not help us to quit, we could not even get this far in that debate. Congresswoman! Be kind - you have plenty of time, 17 minutes for Fidesz, as I see it - tell me which medical professional background institution has done this survey in Hungary. Because neither I nor the representative organisations are aware that such a survey has been carried out in Hungary. If there is, please share it with us. I don't know anything about a study in Hungary. I know of a different kind of test. The CDC, i.e. the US CDC, carried out a survey on this, my fellow Members, and based on the results of this survey, 54 percent of quit smoking in the United States in 2014 used the help of electric cigarettes while quitting smoking. More than half of those who quit smoking believe that electric cigarettes helped them to do so. The Hungarian professional organisations, such as the Electricity Association, have a similar opinion, which is the most representative of the stakeholders, with which you have not, by the way, conducted any professional consultation in the world. You have not asked for the views of stakeholders on this issue. Those affected were not asked what they thought about whether or not electric cigarettes meant to them, and if so, what help they had in quitting smoking. The association has more of its own research. One of these is - this is a shocking number, by the way - it says that in Hungary, one percent of those who use electric cigarettes are just as high as those who use electric cigarettes without smoking before. There is no data and any relevant survey, Congresswoman, that would support your opinion, unlike all those concerned who believe that this was a useful help for them. I don't know what's next in this demagogy anyway. I really hope we don't get that far, because your next argument is that electric cigarettes are the hallway to smoking. You have done this law irresponsiblely, without consulting the parties involved. But the question arises: If it is not, what will help you to quit smoking? Could it be the products of the pharmaceutical companies with which you or the government have concluded such a strategic agreement? Because this aspect may obviously arise in this regard. Just like one aspect, and then let's skip from consumption to distribution, so that you put the distribution of electric cigarettes from professional shops, where you can serve the people involved professionally, into national tobacco stores, that's all you've achieved, and the only purpose of this was to get Fidesz buddies, the trade owners, to another $4 billion deal. These are the two main arguments against these proposals, by the way. I'm sorry, but I don't have time for this, thank you very much, but I look forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-04-25-220	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Congresswoman Bene Ildikó, Fidesz. [[Dr. István Józsa: from Salgótarján? Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: No, Szolnok.]]
u2016-04-25-221	I don't know why it matters to the congressman where I come from, but here's what I can tell you. [[Nándor Gúr: He keeps track of health institutions...]] After all, the Member has given his opinion and the research carried out by the organisations that use, use or use these electronic cigarettes. I can simply put it this way for you, and perhaps the greatest danger of this electric cigarette seems to be demagoguery, but it is the fact that all the devices that otherwise imitate smoking, let us put it this way, unfortunately, and especially for children, can cause very serious damage, given that it does facilitate habitation. And... [[István Szávay: It's only demagogy...]] I didn't interfere with what the congressman said, and I listened with respect. What I can tell you, and I can say once again, is that, on the basis of practical experience, it is really very difficult to quit smoking, and it is very difficult for patients to achieve success. Indeed, this has professional programmes where health institutions - there are a lot of TÁMOP programs, there is a smoking cessation program - can be used properly in these professional programmes under professional supervision and with complex assistance, they can apply downsizing of smoking. [[17.50]] What I can tell you is that, after it affects a lot of young people and, unfortunately, in the case of a lot of young people, the habit of smoking happens at a very small age in elementary school, I think that everything that takes a step against it is a very important professional task that cannot be obtained in everyday practice in their vicinity and in their hands. We can argue about this and say pro and versus opinions. You obviously have positive experiences that support what you have said. And what I can tell you is that I believe that quitting smoking has a professional program, has a professional protocol to achieve results. We must prevent our children from getting addicted to any tobacco products, because you know it, because you too often say that today in Hungary cardiovascular diseases are the leading causes of death, and smoking is the primary and most important risk factor. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-25-222	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, [[To István Szávay:]] Congressman, even for you, there is a time frame at your disposal. Mr Szilágyi György, Member of the Jobbik Group, will now take part in the time frame available.
u2016-04-25-223	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As my fellow Member says, there is no statement and no investigation as to whether this is harmful or not. Let me quote something to the congresswoman: the 1999 XLII. Law defines what smoking is. Smoking is a smoke burning product. That's the definition of smoking. Where's the tobacco product? Where's the smoke burning? Nowhere. E-cigarettes cannot therefore be declared as tobacco products. You're declaring this market a tobacco product for your friends. But, you know, the only reason electric cigarettes are dangerous is because the battery could explode. If they take the electric cigarettes into the tobacco stores and the friends think they can bring in the sale of the radio phones, cell phones, because the battery can explode in them too. That's about what electric cigarettes have to do with smoking, and that's what cell phones have to do with selling it in tobacco stores. It's not about anything other than the Traffic Act saying nothing but to give your friends a multibillion-dollar market. It's the same here. Friends don't make enough money, their relatives don't make enough money - because they took the Trafiks in the majority - so we're gonna have to bring in a new area that might earn you more income, but it's not about smoking. It's not about that, because then we can talk about passive smoking and the like; I don't have time to say these things and argue about them, but they're not right, that's for sure. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-25-224	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Statement by Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2016-04-25-225	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to deal briefly with two issues. It's connected to the story of the e-cigarette. I am not a smoker, but the layman can see that it is not necessary to be a smoker to quit smoking, but to be forced back to the place where access to tobacco products is granted in bureaucratic means, it is much more difficult to quit than to have access to e-cigarettes within a completely different framework. It's not a sentence, you can't make me say anything else, or anyone else who thinks a little bit more than that it's a kind of economic interest, a kind of lobbyism. This is about the fact that I don't know how many markets worth HUF 3-5-8 billion are practically being kept within the framework of national tobacco stores. And then I will not go any further than my fellow Member said, from here on out to the phones, and then to the spirits or God knows what else. What I'm trying to say is, at least they don't want to think we're stupid. Let them say clearly that they want to give this business to their friends, just as they did when national tobacco stores, concessions were distributed. For example, I refer back: 80 or 82 concessions were distributed in Miskolc, and 20 out of this 80 or 82 were awarded to two Fidesz municipal representatives and their family members. You know what I mean? Then I don't have to talk about this story anymore. At least tell us what they want to do, don't lie about it, and don't fool people about it. The other thing that must be discussed is the subject of issues relating to the organisation of work. You know, when a work law was issued in 2011 in force from 2012 to take account of the working time limit, in advance for up to a year, of how and how people are intended to be employed - obviously not being done by employers, because this is inaccessible for such a long period of time - then I think that narrowing the time interval for notification of working hours itself from 30 days to 15 days is not really logical, because it makes the lives of workers unplanned, which, by the way, cannot really be planned at the stage of health today. It's not really possible to plan, because these people are busy doing their work, which is practically unacceptable. The reference to professional organisations is false in this respect. Mr. Secretary, I'm glad you're here and that you made it on time. At least the system has improved by informing you when to be within the walls of Parliament. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-25-226	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Hadházy, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-04-25-227	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Protecting and preserving health is perhaps the most important thing for everyone. The government has been fully identified with this in recent years. There have been a number of measures, legislation, regulation and other measures designed to enable people to live their lives as actively as possible, to participate as much as possible in the world of work, in family life, in sports, to have their talents, their health, in Hungarian, to have a full life. Economists have shown very accurately that a healthy nation is doing better in the world of the economy and in the world of work; it can not only live a more meaningful life but also produce several products. I am pleased that this government has fully identified with this. We have introduced everyday physical education, we support the world of sport in a very strong way, and health care has also made outstanding improvements in the past period, which all serve to ensure that this nation is healthy. It's not today. We know that, we feel it, and it costs us a lot of money. It is not enough that you feel unwell because you are not in good condition, in health, but you also have to spend a lot of money to keep and maintain your health at some level. And not only does he personally have to spend money on this, but in this way the burden of the health care system is also increasing, and it all takes a lot of resources away from other, much better tasks. I think that this measure also serves this purpose. I would like to ask my fellow opposition Members to acknowledge that, for example, the perception of electric cigarettes is not clear from a professional point of view. They're looking at the effect that this will have. Obviously, it is possible to argue that this will bring smokers into tobacco stores, and then, as a matter of fact, it will be easier to choose between regular tobacco and e-cigarettes. [[18.00]] At the same time, many professional organisations are concerned about the fact that this too has health risks and harms to deal with. And actually, this could be an intermediate step towards smoking, because someone thinks, let's say, I don't choose smoking, but I'm going to try the e-cigarette, because it's a soft thing, but there's a danger that it might change after a while and reach for regular tobacco. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] So I think it's worth eliminating this risk, and it's worth taking into account. I think that is why this proposal is also eligible. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-25-228	Thank you very much, Congressman. I salute my fellow Members. I'm seeing that the names of the other speakers on the screen weren't published. I will ask the author if he wishes to respond to what has been said. Secretary of State says yes. Mr Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs has a ten-minute timeframe.
u2016-04-25-229	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you very much for the floor. I would like to go through things thematically, but I think that I will be able to answer some of the issues tomorrow, because it will come up in the debate anyway. So, if you'll excuse me, I'm going to leave to the debate what was political and less professional. I would also like to start by 15 days because it is related to what Congresswoman Bangón told me to talk to those who work in health care. That's what's happening right now, there's a strike trial going on, and it's been almost over a year. I think I have to meet the workers every other week, and this issue has come up within the framework of it. To accuse us of being false, let me reject that. We didn't make this up. The fact is that it is also important for workers to be able to change certain work plans from time to time. It's important for him to be able to enforce the rules. At the 30-day time frame, it was often the worker's request that this be amended, but it was not done on the basis of the legislation. I think that when they tie this to us, I think they're betraying the people they want to protect. I think the interests of the workers should be protected. We didn't make it up, there's a negotiating partner under the law, MSZ EDDS. In addition to the round table, the Chambers, the Medical Chamber, the Labor Chamber and the Pharmacy Chamber were brought in by the MSZ. Each negotiating partner sitting at the table supported this position in a uniform way. My job was to bring him in here in front of you. If you vote it off, that's your job. And while we are talking about this speech in Sombor, let me also add that when this was said, they obviously did not even know that at the end of the last year there was more than HUF 40 billion in development, most of it in the capital. After all, at the end of last year the imaging park could be replaced here in Budapest. [[Dr. István Józsa: That's right. With EU money.]] That's right. Which could have been put elsewhere, but the Hungarian government put this source here, which was previously elsewhere. I think about the e-cigarette's professional debate, that if someone satiated their nicotine cravings through e-cigarettes instead of cigarettes, I wouldn't call it quitting. The question is, when you use e-cigarettes, can you control the amount of nicotine that you bring into your system? When you accuse us of wanting to support the drug lobby, it's weird because the nicotine patch has a fixed, measurable nicotine content, and the dose can be followed. However, when using e-cigarettes, one does not know in part what cartridge it contains, what nicotine content it contains, as manufacturers often do not put it correctly in the cartridge label. Two, he can't control how many he smokes every day. So I think it's not the e-cigarette that's supposed to work on nicotine hunger. I'd like to take out the social services system for the last time. I would like this House not to bring two different things together. One is that the population is ageing, so it is necessary to create an increased care capacity that the country currently does not have. This is because more than half of the people over 72 live in their homes as singles, and there is no one to help them. This number will increase year after year. The other is that the E-Casket, i.e. the E-Fund, is now charged with a form of supply that should not be financed from it. It is simply necessary to remove from the E Fund activities that are not to be operated from there. Chronic care in Europe is not financed from this. It is simply not possible for other patients to waste this source on something that should even be used to treat oncology patients. So let's not tie the two together. If you will be led out of the benefits of the chronic form of care and empty properties, otherwise there are also other times such that a municipality tells you that they need a building or an empty lot because they do not use health care. The government decides on this twice a year. That's what's gonna happen. While there is an increased level of care, we must take this activity out of the resources of the E-Fund. And I'm stressing the cure. Cassette, and I beg you, don't make me tell you this every time, the cure. The size of the register compared to 2010, if you put in the HUF 60 billion last year, it increased by more than HUF 200 billion. It wasn't a withdrawal. It was a deposit. I am so brave on this social issue because we do not want to change it along declining sources, but, on the contrary, we want to change it along rising sources so that we do not waste the resources of the E-Fund on a form of supply that Hungarian society has not intended for. I would like to thank you for your participation in the debate, and I would like to thank you for your constructive criticism, and I would like to ask you to support our bill. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-25-230	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed, and the decisions will take place on tomorrow's sitting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on amendments to certain administrative obligations in the framework of the reduction of administrative red tape and the discussion of the summarised amendment follow. The government referral is T/10096. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee.
u2016-04-25-231	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, At its meeting on 21 April 2016, the Legislative Committee discussed amendments to the Act on the abolition of certain administrative obligations in the framework of administrative bureaucracy reduction, T/10096. Bill No. 1. The Committee adopted the summary amendment proposal and the summary report by 22 votes in favour and by unanimity. The summarised amendment contains the amendments of the Judicial Committee and the clarification of the wording of the Legislative Committee. The aim of the proposal is to remove certain administrative burdens already adopted in the autumn session in the context of continuing the reduction of administrative red tape. Therefore, the aim is to repeal laws that are still in force, but do not have any substantive effect, given that they have little norm. At the same time, the legislator seeks to put an end to over-regulation. In view of all this, I ask that you support the adoption of the bill. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[18.10]]
u2016-04-25-232	Thank you very much, Congressman Vas Imre. Dear Parliament, Now I'm going to ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[For signal:]] Yes, Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. A 10-minute time frame is available together with a description of the possible closure.
u2016-04-25-233	As the President asks, so the closing word, if there is no other speaker, then...
u2016-04-25-234	No, I'm sorry, it's just...
u2016-04-25-235	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I understand. The single proposal is supported by the government.
u2016-04-25-236	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Before thanking the rapporteur for his speech, the designated Judicial Committee did not present a rapporteur, now the speeches by its representatives are taking place in the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, the Hungarian Socialist Party. You have the floor, Mr. Notary.
u2016-04-25-237	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In the context of the general debate, and in the period since then, there are still some issues that concern us in relation to this issue. If I remember correctly, Mr. Secretary of State began by saying that this was not the first step. You're right, it's really not the first step. We have to keep going. We also agree on this, obviously in such a way that it is in the interests of farmers' organisations and citizens. Here, I do not want to be meticulous, but broken down into lots, it has also been mentioned in relation to somous cases, and in relation to pending decisions, about the progress made, about doubling the handling of cases within 8 days in relation to somous cases, about how and how these two months of time periods and the fulfilments within. In fact, there was doubt here, and we have been trying to control things since, in practice, it was not primarily the case that took place here, but, as a result of the delay in the two months, the repayment or remission of the various charges, and not the settlement of the vast majority of cases. So there is still work to be done in this regard. The draft law practically covers 73 laws in such a way that they are repealed and 40 more, or 113, in such a way as to shape and shape these laws. Obviously, the aim could not have been, nor could it be anything else in the next period, but to narrow down and reduce the administrative obligations of the client. I will not repeat it, I gave examples of how and how the client's administrative obligations were extended and how they were transformed, not reduced, but transformed, I gave examples of how and how the customer's administrative obligations were extended. And I have also given examples of how the elimination of legal, so to speak, over-regulation, which is the right objective, has been and how it has been achieved in order to open up the possibility or the toolbox of legalisation of so-called lawlessness. I don't think these are good roads. These are not good roads because they can even be said to lead to simplification of certain things, but from the other side, if they are not in the public interest, they are not fortunate. I do not want to refer back to Mr Secretary of State's final thoughts in connection with the previous debate, absolutely, no, I do not want to, but I just want to say that in this regard, when the burden of bureaucracy in Hungary weighs so much on society, and the cost of this is virtually between 9 and 11 percent of our financial possessions today, there is something to be done. And when it is said that the measures for which a reduction in bureaucracy is sought to be brought to life are about a HUF 10 billion magnitude, it should also be seen that even the level of tithes is barely reached within the whole. So there's something I can do about it, obviously I can only confirm your thoughts. Overall, in order not to talk about it unnecessarily, I would like to ask the Secretary of State to increase the means of real bureaucracy reduction, to introduce a multitude of measures that really, in fact, serve the interests of farmers and citizens. One that is not accompanied by the service of various lobbying interests, but by serving the interests of citizens and strengthening their degree of effectiveness. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-04-25-238	Thank you, Congressman, notary. I will ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed, and I now give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Zoltán Kovács, State Secretary, saying that he has 9 minutes and 42 seconds.
u2016-04-25-239	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Firstly, I would like to thank the committees and fellow Members for their constructive approach to the proposal, the amendments and, as I have said, the government supports these amendments. My fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, drew attention to a real toolbox within the framework of bureaucracy reduction. I would like to reassure my fellow Member that we are on this path, we are on this path. There have been real events here since the adoption of the bill at the end of 2015. I am not talking not only about the decision with suspense, I am not only talking about the sommal procedure, but we have reduced the deadline for administration by 25 percent in hundreds of proceedings. I think it was a real, customer-friendly, customer-oriented measure, but we have also transformed authorisation procedures into a notification obligation, and in the context of the public debt reduction, we have indeed left taxes and administrative service charges in the pockets of citizens, so to speak. As for the next step, on 1 January 1952 laws were in force in Hungary today. There were also regulations on international conventions, some 300 of which were the relevant legislative package that we could look at in the spirit of cutting red tape, and of which, as Mr Gúr has said, we have proposed changes to 113, including substantive procedural rules and substantive rules. One of the important things about the client is that we reduce the number of times we need to get to the authorities. In this case, our comprehensive conceptual proposal is to give an example in the public official register, for example, that changes in the data contained in the address register will not have to be reported to all organisations in the future, but that it is enough for an organisation and the state will arrange for such a transfer within the State. Based on the data of the bodies responsible for each register, the number of notifications relating to data change is about 100 000 per year as a result of the decrease, thus decreasing. [[18.20]] Based on the data, most customers will be affected by the fact that in the future the address change can be notified by the address registry, for example. This is currently the obligation of the property owner. In Hungary, we can talk about 4 million real estate. Approximately 1 million 300 thousand addresses are changed each year. So a significant number of customers can save on repeated announcements. I think it saves customers time and energy. The law on public employment could be another example. Last year, tens of thousands of reports were made to the public employment agency. From this point on, he does not have to report this, as the State tax authority is informed under the Tax Code, so the two bodies can report to each other and the employment body is informed by the tax authority. The amendment to the law on the means of identification and the use of identification codes replacing the identification mark is the following example. In one year, 6 to 7,000 so-called property cards or tax cards are stolen. This must be reported to the state tax authority, the health insurance body. Now, if this is reported to the police, the police will notify these organizations, and the client will not have to deal with it separately. But I could also say that, among our objectives of creating a customer-friendly tax administration system for small and medium-sized enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises have reported almost 16,000 changes to public-credit records. So this concerns a high number of customers, with this reduction in the burden we can help as many customers in this sector. It was about expropriation procedures in the general debate. Making it simpler and faster can be important, I think, for the future. Also, in the real estate registration law, there is often a ranking for a declaration or a request for obvious refusal. They shouldn't occupy the rank. In practice, they should not delay the notification of further changes by taking them out of the way. We think it's next, but it's not the last stage in cutting red tape. We would like to move on in this matter, and we are therefore organising another public consultation compared to the previous one, where 389 000 people have expressed their views in the context of the public debt reduction. In part, we are now looking for proposals from citizens in connection with the reduction of red tape at government windows and through customer services, and we are also looking for new public utility cuts. We would like to do these in this consultation with citizens in May and June. We believe that in preparing the bill, we have taken into account the strategic ideas on state administration reform, the experience of the application of public law and the conclusions drawn in the analysis of the existing legislation. We believe that the impact of the bill, reducing administrative burdens, will be indisputable, and, if you look at it this way, we have practically reached over 200 laws in the spirit of cutting red tape within about six months. I think that this will make it easier for both businesses and citizens, and, overall, it can improve Hungary's fight against bureaucracy and improve the country's competitiveness. Thank you very much, Mr President, thank you very much, fellow Members. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-04-25-240	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The decisions will take place tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The 1997 LXXVIII on the shaping and protection of the built environment follows. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/9369. a serial number and the Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee.
u2016-04-25-241	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that on 21 April 2016 the Legislative Committee is the Parliament's Rules 46. LXXVIII of 1997 on the shaping and protection of the built environment. T/9369. The Committee presented a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 22 votes in favour with 5 abstentions. The summary proposal includes, on the one hand, the proposal for an amendment to the Committee on Economic Affairs closing a detailed debate and, on the other hand, proposals Nos 1 and 2 of the Legislative Committee. According to the proposed amendment, in the context of the liability regime and in order to ensure that it is effective, design liability insurance will be required at government regulation level for designers of all residential buildings with a useful surface area of less than 300 square meters covered by a simple notification. Another important change in the legislative amendment proposal is that, by re-regulation of the maintenance authorisation procedure, it will be possible to grant a maintenance permit only on an objective basis for works established in accordance with the legislation in force or which are regulated in accordance with it. At the same time, the possibility that a maintenance permit may be requested in any event, in essence, if the irregularity is not in breach of the public interest, or if the breach of interest can be eliminated within the time limit set by the authority. In the case of compulsory design management, the statutory consideration and detailed rules of the activity are defined in a government decree by law. Amendment No 1 of the Legislative Committee essentially provides a conceptual clarification that is important for building management, that it will also introduce the building height that is still valid next year into the text of the amendment and integrate the aspect of very important municipal protection into the new legislation. Amendment 2 complements the basic rules to be taken into account, which have just been mentioned, with a very important item, namely, the minimum green surface, as this aspect deserves special attention from both environmental and construction and urban perspectives. Amendment 3 was practically the proposal put forward by the MSZP. This was not supported by the Legislative Committee, since the regulation says that a qualified person, person, professional must always stay in the construction work area and that his work can be assisted by a non-qualified person staying there. So, in our opinion, the guarantee of professional quality is sufficiently guaranteed by this provision and sufficient to carry out the work in an appropriate capacity, which is current in the particular area of work. Overall, therefore, with confidence in the government's measures to encourage new housing, I would like to ask you to support the bill before us. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-04-25-242	Thank you very much, Congressman Vecsey. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Nándor Csepreghy, whether he intends to use the ten-minute timeframe now or at the end of the debate. [[Nándor Csepreghy: In the end.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. [[18.30]] It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I give the floor to the speaker, Mr Hadházy, Member Fidesz.
u2016-04-25-243	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The legislation on shaping and protecting the built environment is extremely important, I think. I say this because it essentially defines the form, colours, atmosphere, air, greenness of our living environment. If we look at three thousand, two hundred and a few settlements in the country, we can see a very diverse picture. There are jewels that attract the eyes, attract hikers, tourists. If you visit him, he sighs, "Oh, how nice it would be to live here." And there are also settlements that are very far behind, dusty, unorganized, grey, pale, burned-out vegetation, and it's actually very difficult to live a full life, and it's very difficult to stay happy. It is therefore the duty and responsibility of the government at all times to help and facilitate the process of settling, shaping and protecting our living environment. This regulation is, after all, the same. He is now trying to rethink and rephrase previously misjudged issues, trusting that this regulation will once again improve this opportunity. The regulation, the aim of the proposal, is to clarify the rules on the simplified construction notification before; there were inaccuracies and shortcomings here. Design and construction may take place taking into account the provisions of the local construction regulations for the implementation of architectural, archaeological, environmental and landscape protection aspects. At the level of government regulations, planning liability insurance is imposed, while simplified announcements increase the responsibility of architectural and technical designers. I'm gonna need you to stop here for a second. Unfortunately, it has happened often, and it may still happen today, that the client, the builder, makes the plan, which may not even have been thought of with the designer all along, and when the implementation begins, there are still various ideas, suggestions that this should not be the case, this window should not be so, and then the editing will begin, and the end result often shows that it is not really possible to recognize that building, the plan and the permit are not really in line with the house implemented. This is why it is important to have a professional presence in the implementation, and it is the responsibility and duty of the designer - who else - to monitor the process of implementation and to prohibit or re-orient derogations, or to promote the professionality of implementation, from a safety point of view, from a static point of view. It is therefore appropriate to provide for the continuity of the design management up to and including its implementation, and it is also possible that the designer may be wrong, especially if he does not already have much practice and the question of design liability insurance should be raised. Because if these types of errors happen and we have to, say, break down some of the building, or we have to strengthen it with additional investment, make sure that it is stable, then, as a matter of fact, someone has to finance it, these extra expenses, and very often this type of case goes into litigation, ugly litigation. The investment stops and, in fact, in many cases, it is impossible to achieve. We do not hide under it that it is obvious that these activities, i.e. the conduct of design management and the conclusion of liability insurance, require additional resources. We're gonna have to say that. This additional resource will burden the investor or the builder, but this will ensure that it is indeed professional and fair and that the investment is successfully completed. In addition, the government will, of course, ensure that additional resources are available to the builder, such as the CSOK or NOK or other support options, such as the VAT reduction issue, which compensates the minimum additional expenditure resulting from this design management and liability insurance. I therefore believe that the current bill, although with very small amendments, can lead to a serious improvement, and I therefore highly recommend to the House that it support and accept the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-25-244	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. I don't see any contact. [[For signal:]] Yeah, I can see it now. I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Tóth, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2016-04-25-245	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, A summary amendment to the amendment to the Law on the Transformation and Protection of the Built Environment aims to improve the bill in some points. We have already stated in the general debate that, during the hearing of the Act on 15 December 2015, the law was adopted in a bit of a hasty and unthinkable manner during an exceptional procedure. The result is that this messed-up regulation must be dealt with and dealt with immediately. The summary amendment improves some of this messed-up regulation. It will give local authorities the opportunity to better enforce the aspects of municipal image protection. Thus, perhaps constructions below 300 square meters will not build what everyone wants, but at least these rules will be better taken into account. It is important that the minimum level of greening has been included in the basic rules, and this has been added. Somewhere in this way, they are trying to adapt the proposal that does not apply the original environmental rules a little bit to the environment. The setting of a minimum level of green surface is an extremely important aspect. What is a problem is that they want to regulate the spread of home-made construction in an interesting way, and perhaps the biggest problem of the law, that after that, a specialist with professional qualifications or part-qualified is no longer required for the completion of the building work. This is to be resolved by introducing the establishment of compulsory design management. At the same time, they intend to regulate its rules and remuneration in a government regulation. We don't think that's gonna solve the problem. As we said earlier in the general debate, we cannot support this bill and its amendment in this form. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[18.40]]
u2016-04-25-246	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary.
u2016-04-25-247	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, I saw you swinging your head, which is why I raised my voice to help; you will help me, and you will not give a summary of what you think of the world's development, but do so now, in these few minutes, so that you can even react back to the story. Only because what my fellow Member Csaba Tóth is talking about is, unfortunately, but factually: on 15 December, a torso was brought into the House, and then this torso began to be embellished to a certain extent in recent months. This is what we are looking at here, but the groundwork that my fellow Member is talking about is that they want to replace, by compulsory design management, in fact, with the unconditional and necessarily professionally gifted people to build these real estates without exception, this is not the case. I would like you, Mr Secretary of State, to rebut in this regard, but I would like a kind of rebuttal which is also correct, not only in terms of words spoken, but also in terms of the written letter of the law. So, with all due respect, I'm asking you to help me with this thing. Now and not when you can no longer answer it, tell me why it is not the same as my fellow Member and I say. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-04-25-248	Thank you, Congressman, notary. I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment within the specified timeframe. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Nándor Csepreghy, who has a 10-minute timeframe.
u2016-04-25-249	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Since we have already conducted the same circles in the opening debate, the TAB, I did not see the point of opening another debate, given the number of other legislative proposals before you. However, allow me to respond for a thought or two. On the one hand, the government has a very clear program, through the family home-building discount, which, we think, can provide tens of thousands of young people to their own homes, homes and real estate. In addition, the VAT reduction for construction works, the launch of national home-building communities are all measures that help access to home in all social groups. However, we believe that if we do not link these legislation with the reduction of the relevant bureaucratic burden, bureaucracy may be an obstacle to what essentially makes these programmes impossible. With regard to the amendment before you now, the amendments that have been tabled at the TAB and the text of the text, we believe that a healthy compromise has been reached. A healthy compromise in a way that makes the rules clear to everyone who wants to build. A healthy compromise is that if a person deviates from this, the possibility of maintaining such real estate for such subjective reasons is much narrower than in the previous period, which does not comply with local construction rules. Designer management, as has been said, is a guarantee for the customer, i.e. for the families, that the person who performs this task has all the knowledge and takes financial and material responsibility for the work he has done. And if any material damage is done to families due to an irregular construction, it is very clear where it should be concentrated. I have told the Member before, and I can only repeat it now, and this is unnecessary to argue: we have never said that experts should not participate in the various work processes of the construction. We said that the peculiarity of family construction in Hungary, where family members or friends help each other in the various processes of construction, does not need to be the expertise of all people, but there must be an expert who has this knowledge for every workflow. That hasn't changed in the past, and even though we've said it, I see that you didn't accept it, I can accept that. The argument that these reasons are an obstacle to the support of this bill by the MSZP is nothing more than a political argument. We accept that, in Parliament, the opposition at all times is to be held this way against the governing party at all times, only to be seen as a political move, to be seen as a political reaction, not as a professional opportunist opinion behind professional arguments. There is one question that was supported by the TAB, but the government is proposing for consideration, and this concerns the size of the mandatory minimum green area in the local construction regulations. We think that those who build in Hungary can think responsibly and have a sense of beauty that they prefer to live in a green environment rather than in a concrete jungle. It is worth putting rules into this framework, laying down rules and requirements that can be verified not only by the building authority during the inspection but also by the building authority. We do not see too much sense in checking the existence of green areas, which can be provided with a lawn rented for two hours, and then these lawn mats are picked up and we meet with a concrete jungle. So we are proposing that this regulation should not be adopted, because it does not provide any guarantee that this green area will be preserved in a way that is a way of life or in the long term. And yes, Congressman, you see here an amendment to a law, which I think is not unprecedented. At all times, the government has an obligation to adapt these legislations to the situation, and they will also meet, where appropriate, amendments this year that could improve the construction regulations in order to meet a construction regulation that fully removes bureaucratic obstacles that comply with national construction rules. I understand it would be more convenient to see everything that way. There is no government, just as the opposition cannot tell us what challenges will have to be met after a completely new regulation. The test of pudding is to eat, it will be revealed on the way, and if necessary, we will bring back proposals for modification or, if appropriate, you can bring it back, and if we see that this can really support the construction of families, it will reduce bureaucratic obstacles, then the government will support it. Mr President, thank you very much for this opportunity and I ask Parliament to support the adoption of the bill. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Dr. Gergely Bárándy intervenes.]]
u2016-04-25-250	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Csepreghy. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Now, Honourable Parliament, the Commission's reports on the state project evaluation status and the amendment of certain related laws and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow. The government referral is T/10092. on a serial number, the Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Dénes Galambos, rapporteur of the committee.
u2016-04-25-251	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I inform the National Assembly that on 21 April 2016 the Legislative Committee was appointed by the House Rule 46. T/10092 on the status of State Project Evaluation and on the amendment of certain related laws. and the committee submitted 23 amendments and summary reports to them without voting against, i.e. unanimously. The summarised amendment includes, on the one hand, the amendment proposed by the Committee on European Union Affairs and, on the other hand, the legislative committee's own motion for clarification. Transparency is the key, which has been recognised by the government in the previous term, and the current bill is also in the service of this. This thesis is certainly important for the period when the NFÜ's management shifted project evaluations to the Prime Minister's Office. I have to add that to the evaluation. For this reason, the government has proposed the creation of a list of experts in which all the evaluators will be made known and their decisions will be accountable. In my view, the proposal will increase objectivity in the evaluation system. [[18.50]] The aim of the submitted bill is to create a clear wall between project management and companies involved in tendering and tendering, as well as people evaluating the project. The outsourced evaluation is not only allowed by the bill to be abolished, but only for those employed within the public sector. The arguments of Jobbik and MSZP in the parliamentary debate were taken into account by the government when it initiated the amendment that, where there is not certain that there is sufficient state expertise to evaluate a project, which may be decisively limited to the range of innovation proposals, it should also be possible to invite those who are not in a public project evaluation system to carry out expert activities. One of the amendments proposed by Parliament's Committee on European Affairs set out this possibility, which was also supported by the Legislative Committee. Another proposal from the Committee also addressed this issue, which will be analysed by Richard Hörcsik, Chairman of the Committee, in his next speech. I consider it important that the T/10092. This House adopts and enforce legislation in order to assess each project objectively, transparently and independently of the interests of market participants. The bill contributes to ensuring that EU funds are used to create jobs and to invest in economic growth. What I have to add is that those targeted circles who are allowed to participate in the register have the appropriate capacity. Thank you for listening. Please support the proposal. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-25-252	Thank you very much, Congressman Pigeon. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Csepreghy, whether he wishes to give his opinion now or at the end of the debate. [[Nándor Csepreghy: In the end. Dr. Richard Hörcsik indicates he wishes to speak.]] I'll give you the floor, yeah, it's okay. [[Dr. István Józsa: Government takes priority.]] Dear Parliament, I am now giving the floor to Mr Richárd Hörcsik, rapporteur of the Committee on Selected European Affairs, within a six-minute time frame.
u2016-04-25-253	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 18 April 2016, the Parliament Committee on European Affairs held a detailed debate on the state project evaluation status and the bill on the amendment of certain related laws. First, the committee examined the proposal for a resolution and concluded that it complied with the Rules of Procedure 44. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. Ladies and gentlemen, One of the main merits of the bill is its intention to set up a new evaluation system for the evaluation of EU and other proposals, which, in our view, can increase transparency and help focus on policy aspects. All this is done by setting up a new set of professional names, which would include public employees selected by way of a tender. Mr President, During the detailed discussion, the Committee discussed the amendments tabled by my fellow Member, Mr Alpár Gyopáros, which concern the scope of possible project evaluations. There are two proposals. One proposal would exclude local government civil servants from the scope of the bill, and the other proposal would allow the participation of an external expert group in the evaluation for the so-called R &amp; D &amp; I programmes. The author of the amending proposal also stressed that he wanted to reflect his proposals on the possible concerns raised in the general debate, in particular in the opposition benches. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments were unanimously supported by the Committee and agreed with the representative of the Government. The Committee shall be composed of 45 House Rules. Pursuant to paragraph 5 of Section 5, the supported representatives submitted a proposal for a Commission amendment, which closed a detailed debate. The report on the detailed debate was also adopted unanimously, without voting against, and the detailed debate was closed on 18 April 2016. That is why I ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of the motion as soon as possible. Thank you for your patience. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] On the basis of paragraph 1 of this Article, the Commission has tabled a proposal for an amendment to close a detailed debate, including proposals for amendments by its assisted representatives. The report on the detailed debate was also adopted unanimously, without voting against, and the detailed debate was closed on 18 April 2016. That is why I ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of the motion as soon as possible. Thank you for your patience. (Applause in the ranks of the governing parties. )
u2016-04-25-254	Thank you, Congressman Hörchik. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Member István Józsa of the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2016-04-25-255	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This is an interesting situation in the history of the House, because you have eliminated the closing debate - this debate has replaced the old final debate - and the detailed debate is subject to the committees and the Legislative Committee, and President Richard Hörcsik has quoted a quote from him in a strict and disciplined framework. I am used to a more free talk from him, but he has now kept himself to a strict, protocol-based presentation, which ended with this otherwise unacceptable bill - because the so-called third party, the independent expert system, is going everywhere in the world, and not the State-controlled expert system - amendments were made, unfortunately, by the rapporteur not putting the MSZP first, which are acceptable in themselves, because they alleviate the strict and professional approach, especially in the field of the evaluation of R &amp; D and innovation proposals. Therefore, that amendment could indeed be supported. But what does it look like? You propose that, in the context of a separate relationship, only those who have a primary relationship, let's say, in general, with the government - this is a long line, now the municipalities have been taken out of it; it may even be supported that this means that the 1st government will have a long line; Paragraph 4 of this Article clarifies the scope of this list of experts: in addition to the limitation of micro, small and medium-sized commitments to date, this law should be used to assess the content of aid applications submitted to local and regional authorities for the selection procedures laid down in the Government Decree. So, after all, the narrowing of the register, so that the employee of a company that is a majority owned by a local government worker or a local government company cannot be a member of this register, this extends the scope of those who can submit an assessment in this register. So what my Fidesz fellow Member has rightly said is that transparency, transparency in these EU assessments must be a fundamental requirement, this objective must be given by anonymity - so that the critic does not know whose proposal he is criticising - in principle. This firewall is, in our opinion, better to ensure that the government does not use its own people to criticize it in a personal, vulnerable relationship, but in a completely independent circle of experts. This circle of independent experts will now remain in R &amp; D and innovation systems on the basis of specific knowledge requirements, with all others being awarded the possibility of criticism on the basis of a list of experts in the context of a public project evaluation relationship - who knows? And then the government decree will say something about it - to people. [[19.00]] A description of the scope of this list of experts states that, in addition to the reduction of micro, small and medium-sized undertakings to date, this law should be used to assess the content of the aid applications submitted for the selection procedures laid down in the Government Decree, which are open to local and regional authorities. So, after all, the narrowing of the register, so that the employee of a company that is a majority owned by a local government worker or a local government company cannot be a member of this register, this extends the scope of those who can submit an assessment in this register. So what my Fidesz fellow Member has rightly said is that transparency, transparency in these EU assessments must be a fundamental requirement, this objective must be given by anonymity - so that the critic does not know whose proposal he is criticising - in principle. This firewall is, in our opinion, better to ensure that the government does not use its own people to criticize it in a personal, vulnerable relationship, but in a completely independent circle of experts. This circle of independent experts will now remain in R &amp; D and innovation systems on the basis of specific knowledge requirements, with all others being awarded the possibility of criticism on the basis of a list of experts in the context of a public project evaluation relationship - who knows? And then the government decree will say something about it - to people.(19.00) So we are in absolute good faith. So we do not want to assume that the government is trying to influence the evaluation of the EU proposals, who will win, who will not win, but that if such a government engagement appears somewhere, and that, through the people of the government, a register is eventually created, which even regulates the legal relationship to form a secondary relationship, lets us somehow refer to something that we do not want to happen, that it might open up the possibility for the government to dominate the evaluation of EU proposals and not give a god or a face to be evaluated, not according to real market utility. So, of course, we maintain our view of the amendments that they are acceptable. If they go along these lines, we would get there if we consistently went through the logic of these amendments, then we would get there, ad absurdum, because in mathematics there is such a procedure of proof that there is no need for this register, because the logic of this is to remove it, so we narrow down the circle it refers to. If we go through this logic, there will be nothing left in the end, nor the register, nor the mandatory circle to which it should be applied. In our view, if this were to go in that direction at times, and according to certain professional opinions, it would be a more fortunate scenario in order to ensure transparency and independence. At the same time, I would like to express my good faith, which was not assumed by the Secretary of State in his last closing. We do not want to say that, within the framework of the government, there cannot be professionals who are able to perform these tasks, because they certainly do. But the fact that this law narrows down the possibility that EU project evaluation can only be carried out in the context of a secondary relationship, i.e. in a vulnerable way and only by persons with a primary relationship to the government, is considered to be risk carriers at the level of the approach. I really hope that's not the case. There will surely be examples that will show that cases such as the assessment of the trade-option will not come up through the opinions of the persons on the register, but that the proposals for market utility and technical progress will indeed be in a winning position and in a win-win situation. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-04-25-256	Thank you, Congressman Józsa. I now give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, MSZP. You have the floor, Mr. Notary.
u2016-04-25-257	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The National Development Agency was terminated and the external evaluation systems were also abolished. It is not random that, after failing to do so, they are now trying to take such a path through government officials, civil servants, civil servants, employees of state companies in a secondary relationship. But the fundamental question in this regard is how impartiality can be guaranteed. When we see every day what happens in Hungarian society, how they take money out of the public money framework, or at least how they try to do it, how they can satisfy it crediblely, and on the other hand, believe that you will be able to do it impartially. Secretary of State, perhaps in the final word. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2016-04-25-258	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. I give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, May Other be Politics.
u2016-04-25-259	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. If my colleague Józsa hadn't told me three times that he was in good faith, I'm not sure I would have asked for the floor, because I'd like to accept that I'm not [[Defiance.]] because, at the moment, we have seen in the past EU cycles that whatever government it was, it was leaning towards itself. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: The real opposition is here! At least the honest one!]] And therefore, taxingly, that this experience, obviously the question of objectivity of the evaluation procedure, is much more than hoping that the system that has just been developed can be suitable on its own. I respectfully apologize to the Secretary of State, but I do not believe in objective professionalism in the way it is presented. The reason I don't believe in objective professionalism is because people who drag their lives down, say, as civil servants, government officials or civil servants, and in their lives they were not entrepreneurs, they didn't work at a tender firm, they didn't have to implement programs with project management on time, within a defined framework, basically their broad perspectives set a limit on criticism, which may not be able to make the best, luckiest decisions. I believe to a great extent that an anonymous neutral decision is made, so that, technically, if more people are involved, more people's subjectivity can create objectivity. My belief is that people's personal beliefs, if there is a specialist in the entrepreneurial sector, in the business sector, who can give an opinion, there is a specialist in the scientific sector who can judge its feasibility, and if there is a person in the government sector at any level, it can create some level of objectivity. Many, many individual, objective subjectivity can create the kind of objectivity that could move the system forward. Here we are, two years have passed, there have been virtually no winning proposals so far, from this budget cycle to the EU. Now, obviously, there is an ambition to speed up the decision-making process. The problem, however, or the bad news, is that after that it is not possible to know what will happen to the European Union budget and what development resources will be. I say that we have to acknowledge that it has been around 6-7-8 years with EU funding, so that the vast majority of the money did not serve the country's development. That's why I'm not in good faith, because I've found that all kinds of idiotic things that could be made up just to get the development going, to give a job to a construction contractor, we've seen a lot of investment. The reason why we do not have to take this personally is because some of this did not take place under the Orbán chambers, but during the previous government. In view of these experiences, I believe that a much stronger step would be needed in order for development programmes to be implemented in Hungary in these fiscal cycles which will be able to maintain jobs in the long term and to implement development policy in a way that the developed development infrastructure can sustain jobs. I'm sorry, I don't mean to be such a demagogue, but right now, we're not gonna move forward with another stoning or anything. I think we agreed on that in words. The question is whether a decision-making system that can now be made on the basis of the proposal can go beyond that approach. For my part, I am looking at this direction with fundamental concern, because it seems that the government wants to take the decision even more under its own authority, and it wants to give its own people the opportunity to make an opinion, and it is obviously a dangerous system. Our group's position was skeptical, because we can see the direction in which the system could be better. We see that it is necessary, and we agree with the proposal that it is worth discussing. At the same time, we are not convinced that this direction can best serve the policy of effective, long-term, wise use of EU funds, and, therefore, we will lean towards a residence if you understand this, my fellow members of the government. I hope that your system, which you are building, will be good, but I am also sure that there will be very, very many pitfalls in this solution, and that there will be some bounty and all sorts of aesthetic investments that will not contribute to the long-term development of the country's ability to maintain a job. I wish that their plan could be implemented with this legislation, but much more, much more, I believe. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[19.10]]
u2016-04-25-260	Thank you, Congressman. I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak in the remaining timeframe. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. Then I give the floor to Mr Nándor Csepreghy, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate in a ten-minute time frame.
u2016-04-25-261	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Members, I do not want to advance next week's EU debate day, so I will try to speak very narrowly in the framework on the evaluation framework. But there's one thing I have to say. It is an honor for opposition representatives to think that the nearly one million people who work in the public sector are all Fidesz voters. It's not yet, but we're trying to make it so. [[Defiance. Applause from the Fidesz ranks. Dr. István Józsa:]] Because accusing a million people of political bias, I think it's more than irresponsible. I agree with Mr Sallai on the question of whether or not there will be such a type of funding after 2020. It's a posture difference between us and left-wing parties, how who looks at these sources. The left-wing parties essentially represent the logic whereby the post-2004 members of the Union are essentially grateful to the European Union for this, and should keep their mouths shut when we talk about these resources rather than talking about these resources as a legitimate achievement, which they receive, among other things, because they have broken down the duties that have protected their own suppliers and their productive companies, or, where appropriate, one of the fundamental rights of the EU, due to the free flow of capital, they have been able to carry out billions of HUF of funds from the country by large European companies. We believe that this money is due to Hungarian economic operators, and we do not have to thank them for that, this is our money, and Hungarian people can decide how to use it. For the remaining four and a half years until 2020, we can talk about four and a half short years, which will determine what will happen in Hungary after 2020. In this respect, however, there is a need for a radical change compared to the 2007-2013 development system. The development system for 2007-2013 has had more problems, and we will talk about it next week, but perhaps one of the biggest problems is that there was no social consensus on what to use the money for and how to use the money. Congressman Józsa has raised a number of issues that I think are worth discussing. On the one hand, it raised the question that there are several models of the evaluation framework in the European Union, there is a fully-organised evaluation system, and there are states that solve these in-house assessments. I do not think that for all projects, but for the majority of projects, the capacity of an applicant is relevant, so what financial volume can be shown, what expertise can be shown. From this point forward, an anonymous evaluation of a tender without being aware of the applicant's financial capacity, its reference capacity, is, in my view, an unprofessional idea, it cannot be solved, it cannot be resolved if we really want to take into account the aspect of supporting the production sector in such a way as to give it a truly relevant support instrument. How can an evaluator tell that if he doesn't see the main numbers of the company that is submitting a tender to him without knowing these data? The other question you raise is the responsibility of who bears the political responsibility, who bears the economic responsibility for the evaluation of the proposals. During the period before 2010, this was an absolute outsourced activity. In 2007, an agreement was signed with the European Commission, which defined the operation of the Hungarian development policy for seven years. Then the professionals who worked in your governments at the height of 2006-2007 and signed these agreements in Brussels went out to the market and cleared the system that should have been used to develop Hungary. The so-called soft cost of 1500 billion forints has flowed out to the market players, the players whose 80-90 percent are located in your economic lunar yard. I understand that the disappearance of this hinterland poses a serious political risk, but from the country's point of view, a system that can guarantee that along the strictest rules along the lines of agreements that link 60% of the money to economic operators, which allows the use of resources when one of the two aspects is met, or job creation or economic growth, are the two aspects that allow the outflow of resources alone. And so far, there has not been a minister in Parliament who you could have interpelled on evaluation issues. It's under this law. The European Commission has made countless criticisms about the evaluations of the 2007-2013 system, with the very mistake that the line is not quite clear, the wall between the evaluators and the project management and the applicant's profession is not entirely clear. And this creates a completely clear, clear situation. When we debated with you in the opening debate, among other things, who said that there were calls that would be worth involving market experts: yes, there is, and this is also reflected in this amendment for innovation applications. In the Commission's debate, you supported the fact that this amendment is favourable and now you say that you cannot support this amendment. I understand this because the MSZP is basically trying to build a corruption sand castle, and with this bill, this sand castle is essentially over. That is why I am asking Parliament to support this amendment, because it essentially affects transparency, it affects accountability, and in the direction that economic policy based on domestic resources can indeed operate in Hungary after 2020, not one that is thus exposed to EU aid. Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-25-262	Thank you, Secretary of State Csepreghy. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the decisions will take place tomorrow. Next up is the 2012 CLIX on postal services. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/9785. on a serial number, the Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Mr László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee, for the first time in a maximum of eight minutes.
u2016-04-25-263	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, At its meeting on 21 April 2016, the Legislative Committee held a debate on the 2012 CLIX on postal services. T/9785. About bill No. 1. The Committee shall be governed by the Rules of Procedure 46. It submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 20 votes in favour, 4 votes against and 3 abstentions. The eight-point amendment proposal of the Economic Committee, which contains technical and linguistic specifications, was incorporated into the summary amendment proposal. Overall, the aim of the proposal is that Magyar Posta could also transfer postal tasks to financial institutions in settlements where the utilisation of working post offices is very low. In this connection, it was raised, with emphasis, that this might lead to the disappearance of the post office, which was expressed concerns in the committee, but, on the basis of the bill, we can say that postal services will remain everywhere, where postal services could be requested previously, and even the scope of such services will be extended. This is an apparent contradiction, but in fact it has a history, as this so-called postal partner system has been in operation in the country for nearly ten years, so this is a pre-existing history of this type of service, both from a data protection, security and from the point of view of the organisation of the service. I would also like to add that, in the event of the adoption of this proposal, we will open the possibility of providing, where appropriate, services to small and medium-sized settlements or to medium-sized settlements which are not possible under the current legislation. About in parentheses or from an economic point of view, this could, in essence, result in an increase in state revenue. [[19.20]] With the adoption of the bill, we will therefore contribute to the provision of a wider market service, and I therefore call for the support of my fellow Members for the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for listening, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-04-25-264	Thank you, Congressman Vecsey. I give the floor to the rapporteur for the minority opinion, Mr Bertalan Tóth, within a seven-minute timeframe.
u2016-04-25-265	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to express my general opinion on the law at the next stage when I ask for the floor during the final debate. I would now like to present specifically what has been said in the Legislative Committee before the Honourable Parliament. I tabled two amendments to the committee. One of them would have eliminated my concerns about the common use of the information system, since such a provision is included in the bill. The other legislative proposal and the amendment tabled to this proposal were aimed at avoiding the provision of postal services to financial institutions. As we have heard, Madam Secretary of State here in Parliament has also confirmed that savings cooperatives are the main issue here. The question arose - if I remember correctly - on the Legislative Committee, Secretary of State Csepreghy - on my part, why the post office is moving to the savings cooperatives and why the financial services are not moving to the post office. Minister of State Nándor Csepreghy said that it is not because Posta is not entitled to pursue financial activities. I would also like to confirm now - although this has already been the reason for my amendment tabled in the Legislative Committee, which is why I refer to it now - that financial institutions will not be entitled to provide postal services on the basis of this amendment, as there is a very serious lack of coherence between legislation. According to the amendment of the Postal Act, Article 27/A. Article 5 is added to the Postal Act, which states that the universal postal service provider may conclude a contract with a financial institution under which the financial institution may conclude a contract with a financial institution in order to ensure the provision of services in settlements where the population of the declared place of residence does not exceed 10 000. The postal service, the additional leasing services related to postal services, the distribution of postal goods and the rest shall be carried out. Section 7 of point 4 of the Act on Credit Institutions and Financial Institutions governs the commercial services that a financial institution can provide in addition to its financial services only. In this taxation list, which runs from (a) to (n) - now I will not list - there is no postal service. Of course, the law on financial institutions and financial undertakings provides for the possibility of doing so unless otherwise provided for in the law. I think there has been a legislative error here from the Ministry and from the author, because while the amendment of the Postal Act provides for a contract for the provision of postal services on the basis of a contract, this is not included in the Act on Credit Institutions and Financial Enterprises, so despite the adoption by the Honourable Parliament of this amendment tomorrow, financial institutions cannot carry out postal services as a business outside the financial activity. Therefore, in the Postal Act, expressis verbis should have been explicitly stated that, under law, financial institutions could carry out postal services, but this was not done, but the law would have written a contract and the credit institution law would have ruled that out. Therefore, I would ask the authors to consider withdrawing this bill or to correct this codification error. I would also like to draw the attention of financial institutions and specifically savings cooperatives, which have highlighted in this story, to the fact that they cannot engage in postal services. In addition, at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, Posta's initiative on data processing in the public interest was raised. Fortunately, Attila Péterfalvy also attended this committee meeting, where I was then given the answer to my question, since Posta, Posta's trustee and Posta's partly owned Prize Picker Holding Zrt. In total, it requires HUF 76.5 million from me against the issue of data of public interest. Attila Péterfalvy assured me that neither the Posta, the trustee, nor the Toll Collector Holding Zrt. had legal authority to demand such money from me. You can only ask me for the VAT-free cost of the medium, which includes what electronic data can be placed on, or paper. However, I did not mark an electronic data carrier or paper in my request, but I asked for the data requested by me by electronic means. Of course, I will continue to fight for disclosure of data of general interest. We can see how the Hungarian National Bank has turned out. What Posta is doing is demanding nearly HUF 80 million from me, a confirmation to me that they are probably trying to hide from the public, which could be of public interest, and could be the basis of any other procedure. We therefore do not support the bill, and I ask the rapporteur to consider the withdrawal of the legislation because of this lack of coherence. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-25-266	Thank you, Congressman. I ask the rapporteur, Mrs Lászlóné Németh, that she wishes to speak now or at the end of the debate.
u2016-04-25-267	At the end of the debate, Mr President.
u2016-04-25-268	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Then you'll have a 10-minute window. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of two-minute comments during the debate. First, I would like to give the floor to the speaker, Member Vas Imre, Fidesz.
u2016-04-25-269	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the bill before us, I believe that it has already been possible to discuss all the essential points in the general debate and also in committee meetings, so I would like to comment briefly in a few sentences. One important element of the bill is that in the future Magyar Posta will have the opportunity to reorganize its post office system in order to ensure optimal operation and proper utilisation, in some settlements with less than 10 thousand inhabitants, to provide postal services to financial institutions. It should be pointed out that this will not or will not be a disadvantage for consumers, since the postal service will not cease anywhere. On the other hand, positive restructuring will lead to an increase in the quality of postal and financial services in the future. And I assume that we can agree with all my fellow Members that where 10-15-20 people visit the post office every day, it is not necessarily necessary to maintain a separate building if this task can be carried out by a financial institution up to a few meters away, with the assistance of former qualified staff at the post office. In addition to the above, there are a number of positive changes to the bill, in particular to disadvantaged, visually impaired consumers. In view of this, I would ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of the bill. [[19.30]]
u2016-04-25-270	Thank you very much, Congressman Vas Imre. I now give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, who may be a different political group.
u2016-04-25-271	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I do not like this legislative amendment at all, as it is practically continuing the devastating activity that the Gyurcsány government has started. You in the ranks of Fidesz have fought a great deal to ensure that during the Gyurcsány government, when an ideologist of the then Prime Minister said that the village is a medieval remnant, it is not necessary to preserve that such words should not be spoken and public services should not be taken away. Compared to this, you're handing the public service over to an entrepreneur to do it. Well, please, this is the liberal economic policy you're supposed to be fighting. They're releasing the public service to the contractor. What's next? Will the police be handed over to entrepreneurs or any company? What's next? This would be acceptable if they were to say that they were trying to organise any public service. It would be acceptable to say that citizens of small settlements are as important to you as citizens of cities or capitals, so they want to preserve them by restructuring. But what we're talking about here is that there's FHB, which has all kinds of offshore ownership backgrounds in Panama, and there's this businessman named Zoltán Spéder, with whom you've become friends for some reason, and what you're doing is basically handing over postal services to this businessman that you like. Now, my fellow Member Vas has said that he will not harm the people who live there. I believe that there will certainly be no disadvantage, but I am sure that it will be an advantage for a businessman, since they are basically handing over to an entrepreneur that you have always fought against. When the MSZP said that the possibility of such a thing should be considered in education or perhaps in health care, they shouted here in Parliament that it was out of the question. Now, as regards a public service, a forprofit company in the business sector is issued a basis for the public service, postal services, most of which in a small village may have a tradition far greater than 100 years of age that it was able to provide these services. Please, this is the destruction of the village that the Gyurcsánys started and you are carrying on. They take the public service away from the settlement, they put it in a bank, they send people to a bank. In full agreement with my fellow MSZP Member, I say that he did, in his speech, say why financial services could not be brought into the post offices, because there has been precedents or attempts to do so, and it is also suggested why more public services could not be combined, why these jobs relating to public employment could not be retained. If I have seen the press reports correctly, this means about a thousand jobs in the Hungarian countryside, which can now be eliminated. Obviously, this does not have to be important to you, and I understand that you must consider it from an economic point of view. But no! Actually, I've thought about it. I don't understand. Why would I understand that if a public service is to be maintained, why is it not important for you to have a citizen who lives in such small settlements and may be part of the important daily activity of maintaining postal services? As a result, I do not think there is much of a version of this proposal that could be supported, since the kind of village destruction that they are doing, and what is manifested in all other respects, whether from agricultural land policy through agricultural support schemes to the system of allocation of tender resources, that is something that should not be allowed. Obviously, if you say there's another oligarch buddy who needs to play the public service, and that's the goal, then it's obviously possible to speak directly about it, that you belong somewhere by handing over such services. But, overall, don't make it look like the state is okay, don't make it look like it's for public purposes. It's not like that. You want to put a business background first. They want public services provided by a for-profit company. This is not very good for the interests of rural people and people from small towns in any way. In my opinion, this proposal can only be proposed for withdrawal, and it cannot be supported. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-04-25-272	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr Staudt Gábor, Member of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-04-25-273	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I would not like to have the general debate again, either, since everyone had the opportunity to do so. I don't see the situation as so terrible that, let's say, it should be compared to the Gyurcsány government. I know that the activity of the Gyurcsány government is not a very strong benchmark, but I can sense it, and this consultation has shown that these mailboxes are obviously very low-utilisation. It's an obvious fact, it's hard to argue. Nevertheless, the maintenance of the postal service is important and the Gyurcsány government did not have one who, perhaps with mobile mail and similar solutions, tried not to resolve this situation, but in many cases to treat the people living there unacceptablely; or to find solutions that obviously caused people an uncertainty. This solution may not go that far, and it certainly will not go that far. What we do miss, and I said in the committee, was that we wanted to see those calculations accurately, and we wanted to see, before the legal mandate, exactly how many places this will take place. So where does the mail go... and now the legal arguments that Bertalan Tóth has said, I wouldn't go along with it because by amending the law they can be eliminated, obviously this is the stage of codification preparation, which law needs to be amended. But the point is, I would have been very curious to know myself before we sign a blank cheque on the cases in which the post office goes to the savings cooperative, in which case vice versa, so if the savings cooperative can also go to the post office, whether there will be a settlement or a settlement where this will happen. I'm sure we can't rule that out. And more importantly, because one half of what could be said and what must be guaranteed is that people, although smaller numbers of people who would give up a check, a letter, a postal mail, may do so in smaller settlements with fewer numbers, especially the spread of the Internet and the spread of electronic solutions, but of course it should be possible to do so. That's okay, everyone agrees, so you can go somewhere and do that. By the way, it's not exactly profit-oriented... or, to put it this way, it's a profit for the post office to maintain various post offices in small settlements, it's not. So outsourcing doesn't concern the greasy bite. Outsourcing has come from the EU as an obligation, and we have often criticised this. It referred to the need to liberalise postal services. The greasy wall was to perform the various postal services on a private road in large cities, Budapest, and county seats. Now, that was the wall that the multi-company companies were after. They've probably only got this partially. Unfortunately, the EU's liberalisation policy has a bearing on the fact that it is difficult for the post office to be competitive with a mandatory public service. But again, if we're talking about the mail-boxes and we're trying to find a way to find a place where people can mail these mails, they can pay the check, if such a savings cooperative cooperation is implemented, then an important aspect that is equally important to us is not yet guaranteed how many people will be sent. I also understand, because this has also been said at the conciliation, that in many cases they try to employ the same people who work in the post office, because of the extended service, at a savings cooperative. That's okay, too, if that happens. But without the specific figures, it is clearly impossible to say from opposition that this solution will certainly go well. It may be good, and it will be to the satisfaction of everyone, and in the case of people handling matters in the post office as well as those working there, we may get to the point that there will be no particular harm in interest. But the other half is also true that it is not possible to guarantee that, where appropriate, those workers will be taken over, because the savings cooperative may already have unused capacity, and it will actually be able to do so without hiring a new workforce. [[19.40]] Not to mention that we are talking about settlements under 10,000 people, so not only small villages, but cities, and in Hungary, let's say, a settlement of 9800 people is not small, so it is a medium-sized settlement, and therefore the uncertainties in some cases can be said to exist. I would not, of course, refer here to the solutions which are otherwise foreseen in the proposal and, of course, we support the possibility of electronic administration or electronic monitoring, and also the idea that there is something to do with this situation, that there are a lot of small mail, which is very low utilisation, but that should be resolved in such a way that we can see guarantees, as I have said, that the opportunities of the people handling the case and of the workers remain or remain in the largest number. Therefore, and considering these circumstances, we will abstain, and I would add that in this case, indeed, if this had required a legal solution to reverse it - because it is possible to say what to start thinking as long as there is no solution, or as long as the Parliament does not give its consent - but I must say that if we say this, by adopting a resolution proposal - this is, say, a codification solution or a political solution in this respect - the Parliament could have expressed its desire to, say, steer the government in this direction, by keeping certain criteria, in a certain direction, or ask the government to draw up a proposal, and, of course, the government could have given or issued this as a task to Posta, and brought in these specific numbers, we could have been able to decide with a calm heart. Unfortunately, there will be a stay, but we are very confident that in the implementation we will go in the direction that has been said here and during the negotiations, which is positive and keeps the retention of workers and the creation of available mail, or in any case the availability and rural availability of these cooperations. Obviously, the role of the opposition is to check this out, and I trust that this work will succeed, and that goals and desires will also be put into practice. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-25-274	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Bertalan Tóth, MSZP.
u2016-04-25-275	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, As I said earlier, we do not support this disguised privatisation, which continues with the Hungarian Post and Magyar Posta's subsidiaries, as it turns out that the card services in the Hungarian Post were partly transferred to the FHB group already mentioned by my fellow Member Sallai R. Benedict. Zoltán Spéder is leading this group, Magyar Posta Bejlesztési Zrt. Half owned by FHB Invest Kft. It has been owned by it, and we can read a lot about it, that those who use the services, financial services and even rural grandmothers who go in and place their own small money in the post office, at least they believe that they place it in the post office - just as János Lázár has used the money several times to post it - so they don't put the money in the post office, they open an account at FHB, and FHB records a treasury ticket through Magyar Posta Investment Plc. or an exclusive distribution to him, or they put this money into a real estate fund, which is already managed by the Diófa Real Estate Manager for a very high management cost, which is already 100 percent part of the Speder group of investors. He doesn't even know what kind of luxury property the Spéder empire is buying from Telekom at Infopark, or buying various very, very valuable and very expensive real estates from the small investment of the rural grandmother for a very high cost of handling. If we look at the further processes, the Toll Picker Holding Zrt. also has private property, where they not only deal with the collection of fees, but also manage outstanding debts and factoring. For example, today will be the closing debate of the Waste Management Act, where, even if it covers itself, at a committee meeting, the Fidesz member of the government who introduced this law said that this fee collector will probably receive the billing system for waste management, and that he will carry out these activities everywhere, and that the FHB group will also benefit from it. I would like to tell my colleague Sallai R. Benedict that I have bad news, because what the government is doing now is not liberal economic policy, because there is theoretical competition in liberal economic policy. It is not here, so this is a typical illiberal economic policy, which is done at the Hungarian Post, because in these investments the FHB group appeared, there was no competition or any tendering. Here's the exchange of stock cards, we don't know on what assessment, I didn't make a public interest request to Posta and its subsidiaries. I would like to know that in this huge collapse, in this strategic cooperation, which is developed by Magyar Posta and FHB, and partly by FHB-owned savings cooperatives, who is the winner of it. In the great secrecy, I have a fear that the Hungarian Post is not the Hungarian state-owned Hungarian Post, who is the winner of this cooperation, but a large private economic conglomerate, where there is indeed a presence at FHB, the listed company has a 9 percent owner with an offshore background. You're there, and you're doing business with this company, not openly, and you're hiding the information that tells us who's doing the right thing. Because it is possible that Magyar Posta will benefit, the Hungarian State will benefit, the recipients will benefit, and in fact, the FHB group will help in carrying out the financial activities of Magyar Posta, but I am living with the suspicion lawsuit, such as the Hungarian National Bank, which turned out to be the case after a long lawsuit. We are now at the point where you want to outsource the postal service to the savings, which also shows up in the FHB group, because I think that in the small settlement where there is a post office and there is a savings cooperative, the savings cooperative probably doesn't have a very good use either. I would have been very curious, for example, in such a presentation, if not only data were provided on the use of post offices, that they were giving up five shipments a day, but I also wondered how many people would set foot in the savings cooperative every day at that small settlement, and how many people would use the savings cooperative services, because then they could have been compared. If a private company now receives this opportunity, the government will actually help the savings cooperatives, because they will have increased turnover, because they will not only go to the savings cooperative for investment purposes, or account management or such matters, but they will also use postal services there. Not to mention that we have heard from the Secretary of State several times that the administration centres or even the payment centers of the large national utility service providers will appear at the Hungarian Post. Here again, in these settlements, we can see, for example, that Főgasz will have a customer centre at the savings cooperative, and we are not talking again about the fact that the purpose of nationalisation you are conducting here is for the Hungarian state to supervise these areas. We can see that you are allowing the privileged, close-to-Fidesz moneymen to access these large state companies, to work together on the side of the fee collection or on the various postal financial services. This is, this is no longer liberal, this illiberal economic policy that you are pursuing is actually a nationalization privatization that is happening here. Of course, we will not give our names to this, and I look forward to Mrs Secretary of State's reply to the suggestion that this legislation is not suitable for financial institutions to provide postal services under the credit institution law. Thank you very much. [[19.50]]
u2016-04-25-276	Thank you, Congressman. You have 33 seconds for Congressman Sallai Benedek.
u2016-04-25-277	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I wanted to respond to my fellow Member, Bertalan Tóth, that he is absolutely right, and I apologize for the error of wording. The problem is that the state order based on corruption doesn't yet have the standard political term I have to apply to Fidesz government. So obviously this is about what you were talking about. With one hand, he says that it must be nationalized, for example, in the case of public services, because it is a good farmer, and with the other hand he says that it must be privatized in the case of public land, when buddies need something, and there is this special case where he says that I will give a public service to a buddy, so that he can have the revenue that comes from this public service. Obviously, in this political system, there is no right word for orbánist corruption. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Based on state order. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-25-278	Thank you, Congressman. I will ask if anyone else wishes to comment in the debate in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. If you so request, I will give the floor to the rapporteur, Mrs Lászlóné Németh, State Secretary, within a ten-minute timeframe.
u2016-04-25-279	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, We have tried, many times and on many forums, to express the idea and to shed light on the intention that guided us when we started this organizational process, one of the basic elements of which is that this particular amendment should be adopted. I told myself the ideas in the opening debate, and we had a discussion only for four parties, where we tried not only to share our intentions and plans with the leaders of Magyar Posta, but also to illustrate, present, present and present the elements that we started working on on this system in cooperation with the FHB Group, the savings cooperatives. I am very sorry that Congressman Toth did not show up there. I think you could have obtained a great deal of useful information, no doubt, not printed, not recyclable form, but the information, if you had requested it, in sufficient detail, I believe I can safely state that we have provided it. It would have been possible, among other things, to see the pictures in which we illustrated - of course not in all the municipalities concerned - the state and position of the small post office, the infrastructure that we are basically talking about here. If you look at this, you will also get the answer immediately to the question of why you have changed now or why you are talking about moving to a savings bank account. Because the infrastructure that exists there does not require such renovation, it does not require such a transformation as these raging mailboxes do. So we can look at it from two approaches. One is the use of these e-mails, that's a question. That's what we talked about, that's what we gave you. And the other is that we want to create human conditions for people living in the countryside, for the few people who go into the post office, so that they don't have to go into a crumbling mess, but can manage their business under cultural conditions, and, if necessary, other affairs and finances. That's one part of it. We also said that we don't care about the countryside, we don't care about the little villages. What we have started to organise is precisely one of the essence of this national financial services system so that small villages can use the same quality and the same services as large cities in Budapest. It has been said several times - I choose where to start - and it is often said how FHB and the banking services that work with them through FHB make people vulnerable, how to deceive people who use these services, financial services and others; we have said and repeated it. Before this agreement, Magyar Posta worked with banks, and it was possible to use investment services in Magyar Posta exactly the same way as today. Exactly the kind of agreements that could be used, all the constructions - and I included the credit card - were exactly the same as they are now. The difference was that there were two other banks and not FHB. By the way, all I can say here is that the person who was there was present at this particular brochure, and there we even gave details about when we changed, why we had to switch, and how that happened. Of course, I know it's a very soundy thing, and we're talking about corruption here and shouting corruption, but it was also practically the same solution. A lot of things have been said, from the national security risk to all the legendary figures around the world about how many people we're going to send. This is interesting, because, as we have also stated, we have also indicated that the work is about to start when we survey these post offices, and obviously, when we have the number of post offices, the number of workers there can be talked about, or when we look at and see how many people they take over and how many people they have the opportunity to receive. It is a very strange thing, and it is often said, and I do not quite understand it, I may have received incorrect information from my colleagues, as to the amount of information requested by the Magyar Posta for the provision of the documents requested by the Member. It's not 76 million, it's 67, it's not a small number, it's not a misunderstanding, but it seems to have grown by ten. There are a few things I would like to say to you. The amount of documents you require is 35 500 pages. Of the 35 500 pages, 15 240 pages of the general meeting resolution, it decision, fb decision. We have looked at the supply and purchase contracts, which - I think - we do not need to discuss in particular - contain plenty of data that can be classified in the non-public category, perhaps even according to the Member, that is 21,000 pages. Compared to this, there's an accurate calculation in front of me, if you'd like, I'll read it, but I don't think that's the point. I think that the court, the jurisdiction, will decide who is right in this matter. I know that, and I think that, for the purpose of obtaining information, in order to answer the questions you are asking, it is completely unnecessary. I'm convinced there's a different purpose here. I am convinced that even the aim here is to make Posta's work impossible, because it requires the work of a lot of people, obviously a workforce of few people. The central number of the Post Office is also mentioned as to what happens to the number. The central number has been reduced, and fewer and fewer people working in the centre of the Posta can be used for these jobs. I therefore believe that, following my hope for adoption of the amendment, the steps and reorganisations that we are going to take are evidence to everyone that they did the right thing by voting in favour of this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]] [[20.00]]
u2016-04-25-280	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the referral of judicial experts and the final amendment proposal follow up. The government referral is T/9782. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinions will be presented in a total period of 15 minutes. First, I give the floor to Mr Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee, within a time frame of up to eight minutes.
u2016-04-25-281	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/9782 on 21 April 2016. The draft bill on judicial experts, submitted by the Committee with 20 votes in favour, 5 against and 3 abstentions, presented an amendment and a summary report. The Legislative Committee discussed the 49-point amendment proposal of the Judicial Committee, seven single-point amendments initiated by Jobbik's representatives and a 19-point proposal by the pro-government representatives. From this, the Legislative Committee supported those from the 49 points proposed by the Judicial Committee, which do not apply to the regional chambers, but are different, this was 5 or 6 amendments and supported 19 points of the amendment by the pro-government representatives, so these amendments were included in the summary amendment proposal and the summary report. I believe that the involvement of experts is of great importance in most proceedings, whether it be a civil suit, an administrative procedure, a criminal offence or a disciplinary matter. During previous meetings, my fellow Members have already said that there are currently not very imposing rules for judicial experts, which they are trying to adapt to the lack of resources chambers. The proposal contains a number of innovative provisions, which are set out in Annex XXI. They're needed in the first century. The Minister of Justice's policy programme highlights the reform of the judicial expertise system, which I ask you to support by adopting this bill. Thank you for listening. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2016-04-25-282	Thank you very much. Good evening, everyone. We will continue our work by presenting a minority opinion, which two speakers present a minority opinion in a total time frame of seven minutes. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy.
u2016-04-25-283	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, a minority opinion was drawn up at the committee's meeting, and it can be said that since the amendments concerned the substance of the bill and the substance of the proposal, a number of positions expressed as criticism in the general debate have been put on the table again. For example, we have stated that it does not matter whether the original proposal of the government, or the amendments contained in the background material of the Judicial Committee, is adopted by the Parliament, and finally we can only get to the point that the government intends to re-submit a previously autonomous body to its own jurisdiction and to exercise supervision in an unacceptable way or in an unconstitutional manner. With regard to the Chamber of Experts in Justice, the background material included, as my fellow Member Vas Imre pointed out, that there should not be a national chamber, but that instead three regional chambers should supervise this activity. By the way, at the committee's meeting, I did not find out, and I tried to ask whether, in the case of the three regional chambers, there would otherwise be a national body operating above it, or if only the regional chambers existed, and not a national body. That would have been a weird organizational solution. Finally, the representative of the Ministry of Justice did not respond to this, which is understandable by the fact that, after all, this proposal was not supported by the Ministry. But those who tabled it, my fellow Members from KDNP, also did not respond. By the way, we also asked whether the Chamber of Experts had been consulted on whether a proposal for regional transformation in this direction would be supported. We received the answer from the judicial portfolio that, since they did not support it, they did not agree, nor did they ask the experts about it. Finally, as you can see, the single national chamber model will be presented to this House. On this point, however, I would like to emphasise once again that it does concern the independence of the judiciary here, and here I refer only back to what was said in the general debate, that the Ministry is able to exercise a particularly strong supervision of the chamber's operation with regard to the Secretary-General and the President. But in the absence of time, I will return to this in a next speech. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-04-25-284	Thank you very much. Congressman Gábor Staudt, the other part of the minority opinion, please.
u2016-04-25-285	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, My colleague Vas Imre said that the bill contains innovative solutions. In many cases, this means unlawful proposals. So if that's what you call it, or if this new communication space, which, if any, falls into this circle, is what we call innovative in anti-law, then yes, that's what we've put together. I would also like to say what this is all about, and by the way, at the Committee on Legislative Affairs, we have actually tabled seven amendments with which we have tried to correct this. Unfortunately, we have not received any substantive answers from the government secretary of state, even though God sees my soul as technical or non-technical, but we have talked about proposals which are not fundamentally destroying the spirit or direction of the entire bill, which could have been adopted calmly and generously. For example, this is what I still consider to be against the basic law, and I would like to give an example of this: if the Chambers of the Regions have been abolished, and the appeal system has therefore ceased, otherwise it should not have gone hand in hand, so there are organisations in which the possibility of appeal exists without territorial organisation or territorial organisation contributing to this. So there might be some advice, some advice, let me not give you any tips, the Ministry will certainly have excellent codificators and system-minded people who could have solved this. Therefore, even if there was a national chamber, an appeal system could have been put in place or incorporated into the proposal. We are talking about the decisions of the Disciplinary Board, which may even punish an expert by disqualifying him or even making him unfit, serious questions, where appropriate concerning his or her existence, of the most decisive and serious concern, and there is no appeal in these matters. [[20.10]] It should be allowed that there is no appeal, but if a judicial review is requested by the expert concerned, he will not even be given the opportunity not to be carried out at least until that time. By the way, Amendment 7, which I submitted but rejected by the Judicial Committee, and then submitted as a TAB modifier, would have concerned whether, as long as the court had decided to suspend this decision in its implementation, which the Chamber's Disciplinary Board would, let us say, at least not be able to implement. So it is not even a matter of waiting for the court to go through it, but if there is a request for a suspension, who may be deprived of his whole existence, they would not even wait for the court to decide on this issue. I think this does not comply with the Fundamental Law, because in this case it is in fact possible to deprive someone of their fundamental rights without appeal or of their livelihood. I will continue to comment on this, but that is why we cannot support the proposal. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-04-25-286	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Parliament, the Secretary of State, if you would like to speak now. [[Dr. Pál Völner: No.]] It says no. In this case, Honourable Parliament, we now have speeches in the time frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. As the first speaker who applied for a normal word, Mr Staudt Gábor, Jobbik, the floor should be addressed. Here you go.
u2016-04-25-287	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to go through these amendments in order to at least oblige the Secretary of State to listen to them for the last time. If this becomes a problem later and the proposal goes back to Parliament, because I fear that there will be problems, at least remember that we have drawn attention to them. Believe me, I'm doing this with the best possible intentions. I must also say that I have done this in committee, so this will not be news to the Secretary of State, but if we are talking about the plenary session of Parliament and there is a protocol on this, let me confirm that there is no problem with touching the system. We had to touch it, everyone admitted that the forensics system needed to be revised, but that doesn't mean we're gonna spill the baby along with the bath water. Do not report that we are not going to build a viable system, and do not report that the whole system is dependent on the Minister and on the government on this basis, and not only financially in many cases, but also through appointments. Because one of the amendments concerned this point. Before the Legislative Committee, I only proposed that the President of the Chamber should not be appointed with a ministerial consent, if the Secretary-General did. In this proposal, which will be adopted tomorrow, because the law is not two-thirds, it is that the Secretary-General and the President himself can be elected, but it will require ministerial approval to fulfil his position. At least the chairman of the Chamber should be free to be elected, if we are talking about local government, local government or self-government with judicial experts, so that at least the chamber president should be someone who is not tied to the minister in this case. This is all the more the case, since not only should the Secretary-General's consent be given to the person and the appointment of the Secretary-General, but all decisions of the General Assembly or the Presidency having an economic impact should be approved by the Secretary-General. And in today's world, there are very few decisions that cannot be said in any way or in any way that would have an economic impact. So I have to say that, in fact, everything will need the Secretary-General's consent. Then I tried to get the Legislative Committee to change the qualification requirements. If the Secretary-General is already subject to strong enough skills requirements, many of us in the opposition sector have also come up with the question of whether or not they are trying to pinpoint this position on someone. 'Cause we haven't seen that in six years, obviously. But I said good, all right, be a lawyer, although in many cases - and I say that as a lawyer - it is not only the person who can properly hold a position as secretary-general who has a legal degree. I had such a proposal before the Justice Committee, which would also have highlighted the legal criterion. But all right, I didn't insist on it here either. I just wanted to change the rule that it is an eight-year administrative practice, of which at least five are executive relations. I would have suggested taking this off for five years of administrative practice, which is also a pretty strict category, because it's not enough for someone who worked as a lawyer, lawyer, prosecutor, judge, let's say, half of his life, even he couldn't fill this position. But administrative practice should be taken down for at least five years, not eight years, of which it would have taken five years of management practice. But that wasn't accepted by the Legislative Committee and the government. Then we presented another proposal, which also did not pass. This would have adapted to the law of attorney the rule system that would constitute an automatic chamber membership suspension for experts. What we're talking about here is that when a person is prosecuted, whatever the seriousness of the case, he should be suspended. Of course, we are not talking about crimes related to his professional operation, but, for example, a drunk driver and countless minor crimes could be said. Well, it's stipulated in the law that in the event that you're more than five years in prison, you're required to suspend. It may be suspended even if it is milder than that, but it is such an act as to justify it. However, it is a little strict that we remove the right from the hands of the Chamber and the Disciplinary Board to decide: let's say that for a drunk driver a person should be suspended, so does this mean that he cannot work and that he may lose his livelihood, if any, is a bit harsh again. Or if we're talking about a criminal act of intent to prosecute, it could be a slander committed not by a private person, but, let's just say, by one of the state's leaders, or by the D.A.'s office. 'Cause the court might be absolving you anyway. He's been suing for years, he's forced to suspend his job, and the bar can't even tell him to stop, the D.A.'s prosecuting him, but it seems so conceptual that we don't suspend him. You have to suspend it because they're legally putting a rule like that in it. Now, of course, you can say that those who wrote the law didn't think about it, but since this has been said in opposition, please take it into account. Opponents should also draw attention to these circumstances. Unfortunately, there will be cases of unfairness if this proposal has been adopted which could have been avoided if they really considered what we wanted to achieve with this proposal. And then I have to tell you, there was one more point that we definitely didn't come to terms with. This is nothing more than the requirement for further training. That wouldn't be a problem. Let's just say it, it's okay. You can even check the participation to see if the forensics expert has gone to the training course. That's okay. We can even test it to see if he's learned the material they gave him. Examine it, but the rule is that he can be declared unfit if he cannot integrate the results of professional training into his work is brutal - and re-enact it here - because in fact we will not know who is organizing these educations, we do not know what they will teach, but you would expect him to automatically incorporate the knowledge he hears there, because if not, he is unfit. This could be resolved, Mr Secretary of State, by issuing guidelines, any binding guidelines laid down, described, professional letters, whatever it is that needs to be incorporated and applied. But the results of a training course, perhaps a slide project, which may have been given orally, are very difficult to take into account, if any. Again, the problem is the penalty: it is possible to declare someone unfit without actually writing down what we are asking for. [[20.20]] Not to mention that in this way professional disputes or if an educational material is exceeded, say five years from now, who will say that this has been reviewed, if there is another lecture or another vocational training, which is contrary, which one will be integrated by the poor judicial expert. This is not well thought out, and it would have been very good if we had done so, because the bill is still suffering from serious professional errors and will cause problems with its practical application. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-25-288	Thank you very much. Our next speaker is Congressman Gergely Bárándy, MSZP, please.
u2016-04-25-289	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already said some of the criticisms when presenting the Commission's minority opinion, and I would not repeat them, and I would just like to refer to what my fellow Member Staudt has also said about professional objections. That is why, if you like, we have also remained in a circle in the general debate, and I do not even comment on the detailed professional criticism or evaluation of the proposed amendments, is that, in our view, it is a pity to have a professional debate on a law the basis of which is unacceptable. In another law, I said, if I remember correctly, that Fidesz has two Pavlovi reflexes when it transforms some territory, whether it is necessary or not. One is centralization, the other is the theft, maybe the centralized theft; that's for the best. That's what reminds you of everything, and those are the two aspects that you always enforce. Here, we may discover some elements that suggest theft, but we will see examples of centralization immediately. What Mr Staudt, who was before me, said about the Secretary-General, we think exactly the same way, and so do we. When we see how this works in universities, in reducing university autonomy and in other places where they have lived with similar methods, we also see exactly what the role of this is and what your goal is. Indeed, any activity that is even a little more significant has economic implications, and in this case the agreement of the secretary-general delegated by the government will be required. We also see that you are, by the way, putting the otherwise independent, professional or other types of personal groupings, bodies and institutions under government yoke. That's what this is all about. It was interesting at the meeting of the Legislative Committee that Gergely Gulyás, chairman of the committee - by the way Fideszes - asked the government about the fact that the ministerial contribution in the case of the president of the Chamber was a discretionary power or a kind of legal authority. Mr President also added that, because if the former, i.e. a discretionary right, this means a new concept and a change of model, which he may not necessarily be able to identify with. Mr Secretary of State has answered very clearly that yes, this is a discretionary right on the part of the Minister. In other words, what has been a well-established model so far is that the minister exercises legal oversight over such public bodies, it changes, and in fact gives the minister a power that, if he doesn't like the colour of the person elected as chamber president, he doesn't contribute to his appointment, that is, even though he was elected by the board, he will never become president. I did not hear either the original debate or the argument at the Legislative Committee about the reason why this power should be given to the Minister. Because it's completely different from legal custody, I'll say it again. On the basis of one concept, the Chamber chooses its own officials and no one has a say in that, the Minister can only look at whether he likes to do his job in accordance with the law or not; and if he sees that there are serious bridges in this circle, he can intervene. While the other means that if we use an EU concept system, the Chamber Presidents and the Minister will be elected in a type of codecision procedure. I mean, obviously, if you don't approve, then, again, you're never gonna be president. I wonder, Secretary of State, what is the reason for this other than that, by the way, I say it once again, you are centralising me, whether necessary or not, because it is, for sure, a good thing that government space will be greater everywhere, and, if possible, the government will be relocating to communities and individuals in all areas of life. That is why, because we had a fundamental problem with this, we chose the solution, first of all, that we did not submit any amendments to the draft law; second, that the proposals submitted by Jobbik, with which and I say now in word, that, except for one, if I remember correctly, it bears the number 7 or the number 6, I do not remember it exactly, we agree with it from a professional point of view, so we stayed there. We voted in favour of only one amendment from Jobbik's proposals, listing this line of thought and approach in principle, which I have put forward above; the one that proposes the abolition of ministerial discretionary law, because this amendment was not intended to change the technical details, but was trying to change the basis for which we do not know for the most part, and we do not even want to explain our professional position in detail on this subject. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, regardless of what amendments the Parliament will eventually adopt, we will not be able to support this proposal in the final vote. It is regrettable, too, because we see, we believe, and in this, I think we also agree with a lot of experts that this area is ready for re-regulation, and that we could have created legislation that would otherwise meet the criteria of the rule of law, ensure independence of the judiciary, guaranteeing the independence of experts, and, by the way, retain the autonomy of experts, the Chamber of Experts. It would have been possible to create such a law if the government, once again, did not have this need or reflex of visceral change, that, if necessary or not, we would have been a little centralized, we would have touched anything. Therefore, once again, we will not be able to support this proposal. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-04-25-290	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to speak in the remaining timeframe. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. Dear Parliament, This debate is closed. I'll ask the author. Secretary Völner will tell you you wish to speak, please.
u2016-04-25-291	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Briefly, some questions have been raised, which I would like to respond to. We interpreted the regional chamber proposal as bringing back the two-tier chamber system in a similar way to the previous one, so that is why we could not support this concept. The independence of the judiciary has been said, so the independence of the judicial authority is not affected by the adoption of this law, so the Hungarian judiciary is still based on the separation of powers, so it is not influenced by legislation in this sense. [[20.30]] Regarding the President and the Secretary-General, the questions raised: the Secretary-General is proposed or appointed by the President. Indeed, the Minister has the power to object to this. Here I would perhaps suggest that there is an increased demand for both the Ministry and the Minister every time the press writes about different procedures. Now, if you have no means of influencing the choice of the right person, then there is practically an expectation that there are no means of expressing your opinion, let's say a president completing a cycle in the event of a re-election. So we also need to think about these cases. In contrast to Jobbik's amendments, there was an amendment in the Judicial Committee that we could support, which was incorporated into the proposals. In disciplinary matters, we also answered the question of exclusion in committee. So if in one of the proceedings the exclusion is passed, later on, let us say, the opinion will be questioned, and perhaps even in the lawsuits, there will be an impact on these cases. To the question of centralisation, it is clear that if an area is not sufficiently regulated or too liberalised, it is centralisation compared to what is being done here. I hope that this centralisation does not go beyond the framework that meets the criteria of the rule of law. So that's what we're always trying to do when we're legislating. I thank the Members very much for their contribution that they all supported the re-regulation of this area. Obviously, we see it differently depending on the party position or the government side, the opposition. I ask everyone to support this proposal if they can. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Imre Vas and Tamás Vargha applaud.]]
u2016-04-25-292	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I will inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on procurement for defence and security purposes and the final amendment proposal follow up. The government referral is T/9786. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2016-04-25-293	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/9786 on 21 April 2016. It adopted a draft law on procurement for defence and security purposes and, in this context, a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 24 votes in favour, 7 votes against and no abstentions. The approved summary amendment contains the 69-point amendment proposal of the Defence and Police Committee, which focused mainly on the transfer of linguistic and legal corrections. The Legislative Committee has been discussing the bill for over an hour, as I recall. Few things touched upon the bill before us. In my view, the present Secretary of State of the Ministry has given a satisfactory answer to the problems raised by opposition representatives. Thank you for listening.
u2016-04-25-294	Thank you very much. I'll ask the author, Mr. Secretary of State Vargha, if you'd like to speak now. [[Tamás Vargha indicates no.]] It says no. Dear Parliament, Mr Vas Imre will now speak as rapporteur for the designated Defence and Police Committee. We look forward to your new thoughts. [[Interview from Jobbik's benches: Crowding of jobs!]] Here you go.
u2016-04-25-295	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, On 6 April 2016, the National Assembly's Defence and Police Committee held the T/9786 on defence and security procurement as a designated committee under the Rules of the House. Detailed discussion of bill No. 1. The committee, examining the bill, concluded that it was in compliance with the Rules of the House 44. the requirements laid down in Section 2 of this Annex. The committee during the detailed discussion of the Rules of the House 45. It discussed the amendments contained in the Annex to the report, examining whether they comply with Article 42 of the Rules of Procedure. the requirements laid down in Section 2 of this Annex. None of the amendments tabled were supported by the Committee, but the Commission, which concluded a detailed debate on its own amendment, was adopted at the meeting, which was incorporated in substance by the better Members T/9786/3. Amendment No 3 of the European Parliament and of the Council. The Commission's amendment was adopted unanimously by 5 votes in favour. The National Defence and Police Committee closed the detailed discussion of the bill on 6 April 2016. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-04-25-296	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. We now have a pre-notified speaker. You won't believe who I'm giving the floor to, Congressman Vas Imre, the representative of Fidesz, will tell you his new insights. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-04-25-297	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The law referred or refers the regulation of procurement for defence and security purposes from the former level of government regulation to a legislative level in the event of its adoption, because the European Union's Defence Procurement Directive, separated from classical public procurement, determines the regulation of procurement in defence and security areas regardless of their directive. Accordingly, the defence directive is transposed into the Hungarian legal system as the same level of legislation as the public procurement law, thus creating an independent legislative area in the event of the adoption of the bill. When establishing a European Union defence directive, Member States agreed to seek the gradual development of a European defence equipment market in the future. This type of cooperation is essential for strengthening the European defence, technological and industrial base and for developing the military capacities necessary for the implementation of the European security and defence policy. The creation of a defence equipment market can be achieved through the establishment of an appropriate legislative framework. In order to achieve these objectives, procurement procedures in the field of procurement should be coordinated to meet the security interests of the Member States and their contractual obligations. This requirement is met by the bill. Please vote in favour of the adoption of this proposal.
u2016-04-25-298	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. I will ask the author, Secretary of State Vargha, if he wishes to reflect. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2016-04-25-299	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At this late hour, just for the sake of order and record, a few thoughts. I'd like to do it again. [[Forebod Novak: We don't matter anymore?]] here, too, to emphasise that it cannot be debated that a nation has the right to defend itself, that it must be prepared for self-defense, and that this preparation can and must be guaranteed, inter alia, through the acquisition of defence tools. That is why we have this law before us, which is in line with the EU directives. On the opposition side, it was said in the debates that the government was late with this bill, because the EU directives should have been transposed by 2011. This was done then by the government, so it complied with the regulations until 21 August 2011, but it could and did do so by issuing a government decree. In 2015, the law adopted by Parliament required the regulation of defence procurement at the statutory level. This is happening in this law right now. [[20.40]] Of the opposition proposals received during the detailed debate, the amendment proposed by Jobbik's representatives was considered by the government side, and although the proposal itself was not known because of codification formal errors, the committee responsible, the Defence and Police Committee, as Mr Jobbik mentioned, has carried it through the draft text with a precise wording. In this way, we will comply with the EU directives, and in 2016 the implementation will be carried out, which will be reviewed by the European Commission, this review can happen, and we have complied with the European Commission's requirement. I ask that my fellow Members support the adoption of this law, since its provisions are in line with the European Union's directives and defence directives, and guarantee the security of our nation through defence procurement. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-25-300	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First, I will give the floor - as you have applied for a post-scheduled speech - to Congressman Gergely Farkas, Jobbik: Report to Jobbik's Youth Department. On the results of his campaign, the title 7th episode. Here.
u2016-04-25-301	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, During the campaign of Jobbik's Youth Group, we continue to receive students' opinions, which we are very happy to hear, which we are very pleased to see is of interest, and the students are pleased that someone is finally listening to their voices, so I am confident that these voices will also be heard by the pro-government representatives, the decision-makers. I would also like to read some of these comments today. István responded to the recently announced draft government that the geography subject would be terminated. He said, "It's outrageous what you want to do with geography." This may be one of the most important subjects of science besides biology. We can still use that in life. If it were to be changed at all costs, I would suggest the following: every school year there should be only one natural object two hours a week, so we would have knowledge of all four of them, but we would not be overworked with them. I hope that my words will be taken into consideration. * In other words, we also published a statement yesterday that we are protesting the planned termination of the geography subject, and we hope that this will not happen. Besides, it is also an interesting suggestion - from a teacher - that the education of a single science subject should be considered, because these subjects are often related, so it might be logical to teach them in the form of a single subject. We should definitely talk about this, but it is not the solution that the government is planning to put an end to geography education in the majority of schools. But let's keep going. Tibor's suggestion is also worthy of consideration. He says:. In technical, medical and natural sciences, universities expect enormous basic knowledge, but at the same time the secondary school often prepares these subjects for middle-level graduation, which he does not consider to be fair. Zsolt thinks:. The practical education should be strengthened, extremely pointless physics and chemistry should be taught without any experiments. This school year, we didn't go on a field trip, we didn't put our feet out of the four walls. The mood is often negative, our teachers are tired, just like us after 8-9 hours of study. We're sick of politics in school. When it comes to expressing an opinion, they are afraid; they are afraid that someone might note the negative that teachers dared to mention against their system. It's a little strange and it quotes the old system for me, although I haven't lived and I don't want to live in socialism. It's extremely comical when, according to the gym teacher, it's important to change into the school logo because there can be a minister or a congressman at school, and everything has to be perfect, even though there's no class, because there's not enough room for the mandatory five o'clock. Change is necessary, and it is inevitable. "It's Zsolt," says he. Jobbik has already commented on the monitoring and certification of teachers on several occasions. We consider this to be important in itself in order to maintain continuous development and quality levels, but we consider its present form to be excessive. On the other hand, we support the suggestion that Henry wrote in his letter. He writes precisely: "I would like to suggest that every teacher who is admitted to a school must be subjected to a psychological examination, in which they would examine whether or not he is fit to fill this position. We would agree with this so much that, as a condition for access to teacher training, we would impose a more stringent competence test. Some institutions already have it, but as they say, it's more of a ridiculous process than a serious level gauge. So it would be worth screening for teacher training at this level. Philip was not talking about public education, but about higher education, but we consider it important that his opinion be made clear: the BSc-MSc system. I don't even know what topics can be worked on at a university, but I've got a paper to run. During the three years, the entire material has to be handed down - so that an engineer doesn't know it by calling it up - so everything is compressed into one semester of a course. The material doesn't have time to settle down. And the Master colleagues are complaining that they don't have a mandatory class of almost nothing. It would be great if the five-year system was restored. '"Philip," he writes. Finally, Angéla shared the following thoughts with us:. The schools are not properly equipped with the necessary tools for teaching. Both students and teachers are heavily overwhelmed. Teachers have a lot of paperwork, and that's why they don't have the energy for real education. The system of graduation requirements is changed very often, often not properly informed by students. For this last sentence, just that we discussed the MTA report at our committee meeting last week, and it was also mentioned in the MTA report that too often they change the laws governing the education system, and this is definitely at the expense of quality. That's all I had to say today. We'll keep going. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2016-04-25-302	Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr President Novák, Mr Jobbik, spoke with the title of a similarly one-party Fundamental Law in place of the cancerist constitution. Here you go.
u2016-04-25-303	That's right, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, This week we remember the 1990 MDF-SZDSZ pact, but in the derailment of the regime change there is also a more current crime: five years ago, the cancerist constitution was replaced by a similarly one-party Fundamental Law, which was voted against the twenty other post-communist countries only by the governing parties. They felt that a constitution needed greater legitimacy than only the parties of government, but we did not adopt any amendments in the system of national cooperation. This system is where we cannot now find any members of the government in the benches of the Parliament. Five years ago, on that merry Easter Monday, I replaced the declaration of national cooperation with a large, framed Rákosi-Orbán montage in the hall of the Office of the Parliament, and with our awareness-raising action, we may have been able to shed light on what was swept away in the spirit of national cooperation during the adoption of the Fundamental Law. We can also remember the cancerist disgustingness that Fidesz originally proposed to include in the Fundamental Law the names of the voters who voted for it, so they themselves, but because of our protest, they finally stopped. Of course, a lot hasn't changed since then. The Hungarian Post and the Hungarian National Bank are celebrating the anniversary of the Fundamental Law, a stamp block and a medal were issued to honor the five-year anniversary. What a jubilee! It is not mentioned, for example, that the better motion to publish the list of agents has been swept off or that we would have excluded from public life, who has been actively involved in the management of the former socialist state life, who has been involved in the repression of the Hungarian people as senior officials of the State Party or as leaders of armed organisations, in maintaining the communist dictatorship. Thus, the former censor Ildikó Lendvai, member of the MSZMP KB member László Kovács and Ferenc Gyurcsány could remain a Member of Parliament in this supposedly new system. It is typical that László Kovács and Gyurcsány were able to protest against the Fundamental Law together today, even though they are in fact beneficiaries of it, because they do not include not only the exclusion of communist leaders from public life, but they also did not support our proposal to revise the privatisation that followed the so-called regime change, to explore the path of the national property that has been abducted. If Fidesz had accepted the amendments proposed by Jobbik, it would not only be reflected in the preamble to the restoration of legal continuity, but also in the normative operative part. Contrary to Viktor Orbán's earlier promise, the majority of the Fidesz voted against holding Hungarian land and water in Hungarian hands, so in the Parliament we also protested with the inscription "Traitor" here. [[20.50]] Indeed, the preparation of the foreign handing of the Hungarian land was a serious treason. They also voted against the abolition of immunity by their representatives, the creation of re-callability and the rightful proposals to ban job accumulation and the constitutional possibility of re-establishing the death penalty. The possibility of a referendum has been limited in many cases in the Fundamental Law, so it is virtually impossible on a substantive issue, and it is extremely rare for the National Election Committee to allow a referendum. We have also put forward proposals to ensure that the possibility of a referendum is not limited, but they have also been swept away. In fact, it was not possible to hold a referendum on the Fundamental Law itself or to adopt it, even though it would not have hurt to have a greater legitimacy, especially given that there was no constitutionalisation in the Fidesz electoral programme. Nor can a referendum be held on the amendment of the Fundamental Law. As before, we wanted anyone to be able to request a constitutional review of a law, i.e. to appeal to AB, not just a quarter of the government or representatives, but the parties of the government have narrowed down this possibility, and with retroactive legislation, so that the Constitutional Court has simply been forced to look into pending cases following the provisions of the governing parties. So if someone has worked to provide a very precise submission to the Constitutional Court and it has been laid down by the Constitutional Court for years, even so, it has not finally been decided, unfortunately. Well, if the Jobbik gets a chance, they'll all be recorded in the Fundamental Law. Only Jobbik of the opposition parties was constructively involved in the debate of the Fundamental Law, and the other parties were conveniently absent from work for weeks. The Government is now proposing its sixth amendment to the Fundamental Law, which Viktor Orbán called granite-solid. At times, the Fundamental Law expressing our nation's sovereignty has been amended to the pressure of the EU, as, in spite of Viktor Orbán's vocal freedom struggle, they actually dance as the Union whistles. Today at the Upper House event, Pál Schmitt said that he regretted the fact that he did not vote in favour of the Fundamental Law in the short term interest of the opposition. Well, let's not get into this - maybe it's just you. He is right, however, that they were still absent from the celebration - but he did not add that we were not invited. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-25-304	Dear Parliament, Congressman Sallai R. Benedek has applied for a post-meeting speech:.. Why do they hate trees? Christian, civil, conservative, national value is wood destruction? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-04-25-305	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Allow me to ask you this: I wanted very much to speak to my pro-government colleagues and the government, but there is no one here. Can I still do the speech?
u2016-04-25-306	Yeah.
u2016-04-25-307	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I trust that my thoughts will somehow get to our pro-government fellow Members. Last week we celebrated Earth Day. Very, very many people know that since 1970 this festival has practically included the Earth's birthday, the possibilities of creating an ecosystem on Earth. The next day, the day after Earth's Day, I was surprised to see the local Fidesz mayor, Rackedeve, hacked out the platan trees of the neighborhood over the age of 40, despite the legal ban. This has made me wonder how we're going about it, because we've been hearing a lot about it in the media lately. Cutting down the tree is obviously not a sin against God, because an important element of forests, the cultivation of tree plantations, and conscious forestry cultivation is to cut down trees where nature keeps our forests going on to be wise, sustainable, meaningful forest management. However, the situation is a little different in urban environments, urbanised environments, and the bigger the city, the more built up, the more asphalt, the more importance and weight the trees have. For example, in the United States - which I would not like to take as an example at any level - a fine of $100,000 is already imposed in court proceedings when a tree is cut off without permission and the cutting of wood has reduced the value of an apartment and reduced its tasks in the climate system, since the surface of the wood shade tax on asphalt has been reduced, which has negatively affected the microclimate. Just as if he stopped protecting a house from the wind, from the hardships of the weather, and did not provide a shadow, that means affordable values in energy, which can be expressed in money. And in a residential environment, most people don't really have time to wait 100 to 150 years until an oak tree reaches the canopy to provide such ecosystem services. That's why what's happening around us is weird, but it's not new. Now that I have looked back on the Internet, I see that on the dawn of January 19, 2013, a storm troop invaded Kossuth Square and cut 200 trees and shrubs from Kossuth Square, which had been rebuilt. Was the conversion justified? I think most of us now see the positive effects of the transformation on Kossuth Square, designed to become the national square, but to date, it is not certain that the trees had to be cut down and that a solution could not have been sought to preserve the trees there. It is no coincidence that the Metropolitan Attorney's Office has subsequently declared authorisation illegal, but there is nothing we can do about it. We see the expert on this logging, Mr Béla Móczár, as an expert on several of these fidesz projects, who, as a garden engineer, likes to promote the cutting of inland trees. And to mention another name: Anikó Kosztyu authorised the liquidation of Orczy Park and the trees of Városliget in addition to Kossuth Square as administrator of the V. district government office. Obviously, what we see in Orczy Park, where 131 trees have been cut and 145 more trees are being cut, shows how Fidesz and the Fidesz city administration stand on this issue. So far, 19 trees are allowed to be removed in the City Park, but another 300 trees can be destroyed until the Liget project is completed. And it is also about the construction of a controversial mobile dam on the coast of Rome, which is intended to cut up another 1,500 trees, partly in Natura 2000. It is important that we talk about this in this respectable room of Hungarian legislation, because it is very, very important how the legislator, the government, is standing in its environment, how it is related to the land-mother services that are fundamental and fundamental to many nations, and how we respect the existing one. The re-planting of an inland tree is usually delayed, but it may take up to a century to achieve the same dust-binding effect, noise-reducing effect, shielding effect, the climate-reducing effect on the interior and urbanised area. Therefore, an extremely irresponsible, stupid, and stupid government that not only permits this, but also actively implements it. It is not the idea against development to preserve the trees of our interiors, it is not against development that we develop in such a way that the parks that maintain the green field, the welfare functions, are preserved. In this, it would certainly be very, very good if Christian values were tried at some level by the government. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-25-308	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day closed, good night, everyone. [[Meeting ended at 8:58 p.m.]]
