u2016-05-24-0	Dear Parliament, The 30th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, József Móring and Nándor Gúr will be notaries to help me. Welcome, my dear guests, and everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, The pre-meeting address was presented by Ms Agnes Kunhalmi, MSZP Group: Clicking. I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-05-24-1	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, A success story - government representatives and members of the government have previously identified the establishment of the KLIK, and we can now see that this success story has failed and failed. In the past, you have said that you will create a transparent, well-farming, efficient system, in contrast, the Klebelsberg Institutional Support Centre has become a hotbed for corruption and office packing, which is opaque, terribly wasteful, debt-generating and debt-generating, slow, sluggish sloth where nothing can be done. Of course he failed, 26 years after the change of regime, he's practically a huge failure, and I think he's the biggest failure of the institutions. The result of your stupid nationalization is what we see. They say that a smart man learns at someone else's expense. Well, that's not typical of you. You don't even learn at your own expense, because you want to turn a KLIK into 56 KLIK. You, Secretary of State, have announced and acknowledged that this is a huge failure, and have announced that in this form the KLIK will not work, yet we see that it is multiplying by division. You say you're going to decentralize by creating 56 CLIKs and bringing the parents, the children, the institutions, the teachers to the state. No, no, Secretary of State, because the centralized logic remains, we are talking about concentration, we are going to see a kind of concentration, which will not work the same way, it will be slow, it will be as silly to farm, and it will be a debt producer as a piece of KLIK. You should finally understand and simply try in any way, if you do not give the schools their autonomy and autonomy back to the institutions, if you do not have a proper, fair budget for schools, if you do not have a proper management right where the institutions can obtain money from more sources, then it will simply not work. If these schools continue to hang on to a source, a government deficit economy, they will enter the same river and all this is doomed to failure. The figures that you are lying about are not included in the 2017 budget. It is quite simply tossing billions that hundreds of billions of dollars are being given, whereas the facts are that they have just been able to pay off the debt you have accumulated in the 2017 budget, barely reaching the 2010 level of resources for education while taking a lot of money from schools, and there is still a lack of money spent by local authorities on schools before 2010, which is hundreds of millions of forints. On top of that, instead of learning from previous problems you have caused, total nationalization has been announced: more than 500 municipalities will be taken away from 2851 institutions and will take over the operation and maintenance completely. It does not include in the budget the cost of restructuring, nor does it include any budgetary resources for maintenance. Where's the money, Mr. Secretary? Are they gonna take these money away from the local government again? The fact that only a part of the schools had begun to rot so far was due to the fact that the municipalities, who had operated and maintained until now, took their schools' hands and replaced what KLIK had not given to these schools in a long time. They also say that the ownership of buildings will remain with the municipalities, so it will be in the best interests of the municipality to maintain their schools. From what, Mr. Secretary? They've already taken an incredible amount of money away from the municipalities, and now they're gonna take their money away again? No obligation, no interest, no source, it's just not gonna work right now, the system you're imagining is not gonna work. Over the past year, a lot of local governments have started to take back their schools to simply maintain them, but now the mayors are terribly saddened by what you will do with your institutions, they will reach the thirtieth of the dogs. The battle situation is that you have no idea what to do with the education system, you have no idea what to do with schools and children, an Avett approach and a bad management reflect your activities, your state is very stupid and narrow-minded, not strong, what you preach, but rather violent and powerless. It is powerless, it should be a creative school and teach children programming, but instead you are taking schools back to a bad design economy, the worst-functioning world of socialism, and the whole system of education. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] You know - and I apologize, last sentence - I agree with András Chainzi. If Fidesz policy is equal to - and essentially equal to - corruption, theft [[The president's ringing again.]] What I'd say is that their government performance is...
u2016-05-24-2	Congresswoman!
u2016-05-24-3	... basically equals KLIK, which means it's a big zero.
u2016-05-24-4	Your time frame is five minutes, please keep to it. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-24-5	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Allow me to say a few words about education after your lecture. Let's look at the numbers when you talk about how much money we spend on education. If we compare the amount of money we spent on education in 2002, the beginning of your governance and in 2010, the first question arises when we spent more on education in 2002 or 2010. At the beginning of socialist governance, when the Fidesz-KDNP adopted the budget, or in 2010, when we were eight years after socialist governance? Although everyone would think that every year the number of resources spent on education is increasing, this is not true for the socialist period, since at the end of the eight years they spent less on education than in the first year of their governance. Specifically, they spent 143 billion less on education than when they were given the opportunity to govern. [[An intervention from the ranks of Fidesz: Shame! Agnes Kunhalmi: And further reduced!]] I do not count inflation for this, but just how much education has been withdrawn. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Why did you have to subtract more?]] When we talk about primary school and secondary school, they spent 65 billion less nominally at the end of their government than when they took over government. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Talk about self-government.]] Other educational expenses were spent 74 billion less at the end of their governance than in his first year. They spent 7 billion less on higher education in 2010 than the country spent in 2002 on the budget adopted by Fidesz-KDNP. So not only did they not increase it with inflation, not only did they not hold it nominally so that the amount would be the same [[Agnes Kunhalmi: World Economic Crisis, that was not!?]] You've had the nerve to reduce it in eight years. And now you're yelling that, of course, because it was an economic crisis, and that means that if there's an economic crisis, then even utilities can take their profits out of the country, but it's justified to save up to a hundred billion in education. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You have withdrawn even more! They still haven't replaced it!]] However, not only have you spent less in the budget, but, obviously, funding has also been very much reduced in the municipalities. That's why the local government created a debt of HUF 1300 billion, an outstanding debt either in loans or in bonds that had to be paid for. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: That's not true! The president's ringing the bell.]] to hire local authorities to pay the bills at school, social institutions, health institutions. The 2008 and 2009 school electricity bills were actually paid after 2010 during the municipal debt consolidation [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: There has never been a debt like this!]] because what was then taken as a loan by the municipalities, and they used it to ensure that the reduced state aid would allow the school to survive... I couldn't do it everywhere because in small settlements, [[Agnes Kunhalmi: This is stupid!]] where they could not take out loans because the municipalities did not have so much wealth, they closed that place in 381 places and there was no school there. We've managed to re-open a few of those. [[9.10]] But the other municipalities were indebted, and this debt generated the huge outstanding amount that the Fidesz-KDNP government had to pay after 2010. So, for the first time, we've made up for what you didn't put into the education system in the past years, and now you know it. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You took more! You didn't make up for it this time.]] That in the following year, for example...
u2016-05-24-6	Excuse me, Mr. Secretary, for a moment. Congresswoman, the Secretary of State, when you spoke, did not say a word. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Because he has nothing to say! He's just talking shit right now!]] Please listen to me. Thank you. Go on, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-05-24-7	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the fact that there is also a schoolmaster's role here, and it seems that the MSZP needs to be provided with. So, after these withdrawals, which, even if we looked at them, represented between 15% and a few percent of GDP, even as I look at the last two years of socialist governance, we managed to reduce expenditure on education in proportion to GDP, even with declining GDP. As far as the remaining one minute is concerned, the models are subject to state reservations, mixed reservations or municipal reservations. I was just talking about the system of the municipal reservation as to why it meant a financial bankruptcy. As you know, honourable Member, that in 1990, the state covered 82 percent of the municipal expenditure on education at the time of the change of regime, and that in 20 years the budget system had taken over or down that it was no longer 82 percent, but that it had gone down to 48 percent with measures similar to those described above. From 82 percent to 48 percent. If we went back to what the socialists wanted, we'd go back to the past and rebuild the same system, put the municipalities back on a debt path like this again. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: KLIK has a debt!]] And we're gonna bankrupt the schools again. This is why the purely municipal model does not work. In recent times, it has been found that where there is co-lease and the responsibility for operation and maintenance between municipalities and the state is mixed, most of them have been paid. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: Because my fake has accumulated it! The state piled it up!]] the kind of problem that you have brought to Parliament from week to week, which is why we have said that the clean state reservation system must be operated from several sources, and this is included in the 2017 budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-24-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr István Ikotity, from the LMP Group, also spoke before the agenda on the covert consequences of bureaucracy reduction. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-05-24-9	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, In 1950 Anna Ratkó announced the termination of the National Social Insurance Institute with satisfaction by consulting the Rationalisation Committee. Here we are today, the difference is that rationalisation is disguised as cutting red tape, and the name of the institution is National Health Insurance Fund. [[Nándor Gúr takes his place as notary.]] Today, the breakdown of health care continues unbroken, hospitals have already fallen victim, the majority of nurses and doctors are on their own, and the government continues to push patients towards private health services. Now the elimination of OEP's autonomy is the next step in the line. We've been listening to conflicting statements from the government for months, and it's been floating for months. The Secretary of State for Health said he didn't know about the termination of the OEP. This was either a lie or evidence that the State Secretary responsible for the area really does not have a say in matters relating to health; we suspect that this is the latter. In any case, it seems that reality is what we feared most: when the government proclaims bureaucracy reduction, we can really witness the abolition of OEP and social security, even though the only acceptable intervention today would be to increase the capacity of the OEP and increase its autonomy. Of course, we have no illusions, nor can we, since during their sixth year of government, no steps have been taken in this direction, but rather we have seen examples of the opposite. But maybe we never thought they'd finally eliminate the independence of the OEP. There is every right to be concerned: if this happens, then what will happen to the benefits, the entitlements acquired so far - no one has answered so far. In the case of OEP, an institution with very low costs will be wound up in an international comparison, where the only officially declared reason is the reduction of costs. So it is obvious that there are other goals and interests behind it. This would be suspicious in itself, but if we look at this event as part of a process and add that, compared to the previous Constitution, the current Fundamental Law already has more modest guarantees of the right to health, and if we take into account the nationalisation of the institutions, if we also see that the remuneration of the care system has not been increased for a very long time, and that this keeps hospitals in constant debt, then a picture of a health system on which the government wants only to save money, where the quality of the activity done does not matter, where fewer people have access to benefits, or a picture of a country where normal health care can only be bought from private providers on the market. This seems to be Fidesz's plan, everything points in this direction, and the picture is slowly coming together. In the first place, it creates a questionable situation as to how health care without health insurance will work, when decisions that are politically strongly influenced are already being made under an unmanageable mammoth-ministery, in which, after all, people's lives will depend. By eliminating the OEP, the government is not only destroying one of the state's basic social security policies, but also making a fatal mistake at a professional level. We remember the lack of resources at KLIK, or how late the textbooks were, how difficult it became to buy chalk or replace light bulbs. Education is not a game either, but such a thoughtless, irresponsible restructuring in health care is absolutely unacceptable, because the lack or slow arrival of a device in hospitals could cost people their lives. And the only reason the government is risking this is because it hopes to save a few more forints on health care. It would be good if they finally understood that health care should not be spent less, but much more, and that no restructuring would change that. Thank you.
u2016-05-24-10	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-05-24-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Let me hold on to your last sentence. You said the government wanted to save money on health care. You had your first guess about the Secretary of State for Health, and I can only guess that you either don't know the budget law, and you argued about it here in Parliament last week, or you don't understand the numbers in it, or the add-on button doesn't work on your calculator, but if you look at the budget law, there's not a proposal around saving, let alone not talking about keeping it on a level - there's a surplus of HUF 167 billion in next year's budget for health, 167. [[To István Ikotity:]] You may, honourable Member, but you may also say that we have expected this at last, but it is good that it does not decrease, as in the time of the socialists, and they want to introduce non-visit fees and daily allowances to pay patients, in addition to sickness insurance, even for their one-time treatments, that visit fee or that daily allowance [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] What the doctor or the hospital has to pay, but he says it's finally, but it's good, we're happy that it's 167 billion. [[Lajos Korózs intervenes.]] There's more going into the health system. After all, the winners of this will be those who work in primary care, who work in the field of public health, who are provided in the combined specialised care, more access to laboratory care, more access to pharmaceutical support, more access to medical aid, and more resources for the residency support programme. And you know what's going on with the health pay increase. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks, six years ago!]] And from that week to week, health professionals are discussing the rate of wage increases to be made in the following year. So I don't think you should talk about it, Congressman, that the government wants to save money, because if you're saving $167 billion in surplus funding insurance, you might need an interpretive hand dictionary rather than a budget bill. With regard to the amount of the Health Insurance Fund: you know, honourable Member, it was said here in this House yesterday that it will be 31 percent higher than in 2010 and that next year's budget law will cross the psychological limit that the amount of the Health Insurance Fund will rise above HUF 2000 billion. [[To István Ikotity:]] You can shake your head, Congressman, but if anyone looks at it in the Budget Act, you can see that since 2010, the Health Insurance Fund has risen above inflation every year. [[9.20]] And we have not only put back about 200 billion that disappeared from there during the socialists' time, but also additional items. That's why I managed to take it from below 1500 billion to over 2000 billion if I look at next year's figures. As far as bureaucracy is concerned: Mr President, like many other politicians, in his campaign he has clearly said that there is too much bureaucracy, that administration needs to be reduced, that there is no need for so many bureaucratic institutions, so much bureaucracy. Only if we cut red tape, there will obviously be fewer bureaucratic institutions and fewer bureaucrats. You're saying it's gonna be operational. There will be no operational problems, honourable Member, because, in the past two years since this government cycle took place, there has been a similar reduction in healthcare from 1 March 2015. 17 institutions became 12 institutions, and we tried to prepare everything in that transformation process as well as we did now, so he couldn't experience any malfunctions or conversions, and he couldn't say anything like that now. Therefore, we are also preparing the next transformation in the same way so that you are not able to report any problems in the same way. You said no one talked about entitlements and benefits. I would also like to say here, even once again, that the same entitlements continue to apply to everyone and that the same benefits continue to apply to everyone. The state regroups its own internal, public sector task system, shifts OEP's tasks in three directions, the financial benefits will be paid by the Hungarian Treasury as much as any other similar financial transfers, precisely so that the state is better organised, transparent, simpler and more functioning. Therefore, the Treasury will have this function, which the Treasury will perform anyway. Why treat this in six or seven places in public administration if it can be provided in one place? Official duties will go to government offices, and most of them will be involved in EMMI, the Ministry, and there under the direct direction of the State Secretary for Health, professionals who have been active in this field. This bureaucracy reduction will take place in several steps, well prepared. And it is also strange for me, honourable Member, that when it comes to the structure of the state, they say that it is too big, too bureaucratic, and when we cut red tape, you ask why we are cutting red tape. It's hard to go through the opposition's comments like that. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-24-12	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member László Szászfalvi, KDNP Group also asked for a speech before the agenda. It is another important step towards the eradication of child poverty. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-05-24-13	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, In recent years, the Hungarian government has taken a number of measures for those in need. Thanks to the family tax system, we have strengthened the situation of families, reduced the cost of families by starting the reduction of the rent, and with the help of public employment programmes, the state is increasingly giving jobs to people in need rather than aid. As a result of the systematic work started in 2010, more people have already been able to break out of poverty risk, according to KSH data, the number of people at risk of poverty in Hungary has decreased by a quarter million. Following the crisis, the government stopped the fall, and Hungary stopped growing child poverty in relation to the last three years. In order to achieve this, a number of programmes have had to be intervened in several areas, mainly involving the most disadvantaged small regions. Such were children's welfare programmes to catch up with children, such as children's homes and children's risk programmes, the expansion of children's meals in this area - more than doubled in recent years - in the field of education, support for the Travel Scholarship Programme, the establishment of a Christian Roma professional college network, a significant increase in the expansion and support of school activities, the introduction of a social land programme and a social firewood programme in the field of employment, a complex colony programme to improve the housing conditions for Roma people, and the Erzsébet programme for the recreation of children in need have been introduced. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, For the most disadvantaged small regions, several important proposals have been and will be published in the framework of the operational programme for the development of human resources, which, focusing on different areas, will create new opportunities to catch up with the people there. This will be the development of human services in the priority development areas, and no doubt among all these EFOP applications the professional support of children's programmes, which can be launched during this period, will be highlighted. The aim is to further reduce and prevent child poverty. The proposal focuses on preventing, reducing child poverty and reducing the number of children living in poor families who are in long-term need. A total of HUF 15 billion is available to applicants. We know that there was already a similar programme between 2007 and 2013, then cooperation has been developed in 23 disadvantaged areas, and services that have not been established before. That program has reached 42,000 children. Thanks to this new proposal, the child welfare centre of 31 of the most disadvantaged walks in the country and the local authorities that maintain them can now apply. Winning applicants may receive grants between HUF 350 and HUF 500 million under a multi-annual programme. Ladies and gentlemen, In my constituency, in the historical Inner Somogy, there has been an excellent operation in Kadarkut and its microdistrict in the previous years. They can pass on their great experiences. In addition to Kadarkút and its area, Barcs and its district can also participate in this programme. If I were to briefly sum up the messages and calls of these programmes, I would say cooperation and responsibility, as they work together with the government, local governments, professional organisations, child welfare services, civil society organisations, churches, and not least, I would like to emphasise the people involved and the families concerned. One of the main tasks is to involve as many people as possible, as many families as possible, in these programmes, which are not a small task for the cooperating parties. To sum up: in the next period, therefore, we can take some more very important steps to eradicate child poverty, and in this we all have a shared responsibility, together with our shared tasks, together we can achieve it more effectively. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-24-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári wishes to respond. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-05-24-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I believe that many people are pleased when there are such speeches in Parliament. It also shows that as an individual parliamentary representative in Somogy County, you also pay attention to all areas of your constituency, and that you are also trying to create opportunities locally for the most fallen as well as for infrastructure development, transport, education or anything else. It is very important that the government is also a partner of you in Somogy County and in all the other counties, since, in addition to the programmes mentioned by you, the new. Commissioner's opening of children's homes in small settlements between a thousand and four thousand inhabitants, where the proportion of children in need is high, we wish to set up about fifty children's homes, within the framework of the programme "Good Place" the establishment of children's and youth service centres in an eighty small settlements where the population is below a thousand people and the number of children in need is high, and 112 children's homes with EU funding are already operating with domestic budget support. They started from EU funds and their support was taken over by the national budget at the end of the EU support period. The annual amount of this is 6.2 million HUF per service, so in some places. That's how we keep 112. It has been established from EU sources and is operated in this way. Thus, 12 thousand children and their parents will find support and safety in the children's homes. Children aged 0-3 can be admitted there on a day - to - day basis, and parents can accompany them. 80 267 people participated in the children's risk program, and they used one of the services if we look at the statistics of the last few years. [[9.30]] The schools helped 3,500 disadvantaged children at 178 locations in 178 schools. With the Travel Scholarship to high school, graduation, profession or higher education, we managed to help 13,000 students. This 13,000 students probably wouldn't have studied or finished their previous studies if they hadn't been helped by the Roadway Program. We've given these 13,000 students, young people, the exact opportunity to break out of the state they were born into, and it's knowledge and education that is most helpful. But I can also mention the social land programme, which has helped and supported over 7,000 families. We have adopted a system of social and child support, a series of measures against child poverty, which does not want to overlook its own responsibility by operating the care systems, but we say that we need to get close to the families, get close to the children. We can only stop the reproduction of poverty, this vicious circle, if we can break it if we get close to all the children who are in need and are in danger. Therefore, our first task was to strengthen the first line of protection for children, to strengthen child welfare services and to strengthen the signalling system. We have done so, since we have quadrupled the number of children's welfare centers in recent years. Not by 4 percent, not by 40 percent, but by four times, we increased the number of these family and child welfare centers with district centers from 48 to 197. Precisely so that we can help children in need not only remotely, but as closely as possible in all walks, either through psychological counseling, special services, contact with guardianship, or in any other way. We have tried to make child protection a shared responsibility, which is why we have set up a task force on priority issues for the safety of our children. We also try to pay attention to holiday and weekend meals outside the institution. So now not only during summer, but also during spring, autumn and winter holidays, the needy children are given meals several times a day. In the area of catching up, best models are moved to the official supply system, which has been developed by charities and others. We'll try to make use of it at national level. As a result of this change of attitude, we try to include in the system the deep commitment of the majority of local performers, their positive attitude. Therefore, the support of child welfare has been strengthened, and local activities can now be supported by our presence in all walks. For this reason, I believe that earlier shortcomings in the service system have been improved precisely for the benefit of children in need, and that is a very large and significant help from both the source you mentioned and the resources I have mentioned. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-24-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Speaking also before the agenda, Mr Zsolt Egyed, Jobbik Group asked for a speech entitled The Round Table on Animal Protection 2 - a case above parties. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-05-24-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The second animal protection round table took place on the last Friday of the week here in Budapest, which I started myself. I have done this because I have heard from the mouths of animal rights workers and, by the way, many people that, in fact, this topic has not really been dealt with in the last 26 years. If we look deep into our souls now, let us be honest with you that practically from the point of view of animal welfare, I can say that Hungary is characterised by almost medieval circumstances. It is very important to note that on the first animal protection round table, I made promises to animal rights workers, which I have just told you about on the second floor. I would like to point out two very important things here, which I have submitted as two legislative proposals, as I have promised. One of them was to punish serious cases of animal cruelty, such as the famous case of Detek, but since then, unfortunately, on a daily basis, the law will in any case punish him with imprisonment. And my second suggestion was that people who commit such an act could be banned from keeping animals by law. I have also reported and, unfortunately, I am here to confront my pro-government colleagues that, in addition to the support of all opposition parties, these proposals have not been discussed at the committee meeting because of the abstention of the representatives of the Fidesz-KDNP Party Coalition. I was asked by the animal welfare organizations, the professionals who appeared on this round table, why. I now wish to pass on the question to you, and I trust that whoever will respond to my speech before the agenda will also answer why they have not been included in the series of articles, why they do not support a matter that, I believe, is in the public interest. So I hope I get the answer to that. Very important questions have been raised, and here, as in other areas of life, prevention would be very important. And prevention on this issue is nothing more than the launch of an action nationwide, which is a nationwide neutering action. These animal welfare organizations are fighting windmills with overgrown stray animals until this issue is dealt with at management level. What's happening now? In addition to their capacity, these animal protection organizations take in stray animals, take them out of segregations where they reproduce uncontrolled, and when one or two are delivered to the farmer, they come in ten or twenty instead. So there's basically a windmill fight going on here. What's the solution? With state aid, we should launch a spaying operation, which, by the way, would mean a cost reduction after a while, because if we were to do so, and we had the will in the governing party, then, for example, after a while, we wouldn't need lawn-master farms, because there wouldn't be stray animals. And speaking of lawn owners, I'd like to stop by here too, because there really is medieval conditions. The common request of the animal protection society is that these lawn keepers, which were otherwise invented in their present form 120 years ago, should be terminated or their responsibilities should be transferred together with the support to civil society organisations that can do this. The other very important issue is controllability. All dogs in Hungary need microchips, which unfortunately does not happen. But it's a much bigger problem that even if it does happen, these chips aren't registered. Here, in various cases, when the question of animal cruelty or other abuse arises, it is always the first question of how the local notary can control it. Please, fellow Members, it could be very simple. A system should be established to ensure that the chip is registered by the veterinarian and that all regional notaries have access to this system. You can tell by clicking by how many animals are registered in the locality. These are simple things, but unfortunately I see on this issue, as in many other things, that the party's will is lacking. Finally, I would like to say that with what President Gábor Vona has opened this round table, that animal protection cannot be a question of politics, but of the influence of good people, of normal human thinking. I would also ask you to address this issue with this in mind. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-24-18	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Róbert Zsigó wishes to respond. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-05-24-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Looks like Jobbik's cute campaign has reached animal protection. In addition, it was announced at a party press conference that animal protection should not be a party matter. However, the people, Congressman, see through the situation, they know that the protection of the Betterman's animals will only end up being the windcock, because that is what they say today, tomorrow, they will say quite differently, just as their interests wish. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] The government, on the other hand, has long believed that animal protection is a matter of parties. Therefore, cooperation with public and civil animal protection organisations involved in animal protection will continue to be a major priority in the future, as has been the case so far. Dialogue with animal defenders is of the utmost importance in order to reduce animal cruelty. In addition to the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Justice also plays an important role in this, since in early March the Ministry of Justice launched a series of animal protection consultations involving a number of animal protection organisations. [[9.40]] At the meeting held on 15 April, the parties decided to set up three working groups. The first working group deals with operational cooperation with and development of the authorities; the other brings together proposals in the regulatory environment; and the third reviews issues relating to education and information. It is planned that the working groups will produce a summary in two months' time, and that in the autumn they will hold a new aggregated consultation and that their proposals on the application of law and regulation will be drawn up within six months. Honourable Congressman, You may agree with us that the issue of stray animals is one of the most urgent animal protection problems. The high number of stray dogs and cats raises serious problems from the point of view of animal protection, animal and disease health, public security and nature conservation. In order to reduce these threats, nearly 30 thousand dogs are taken into care every year in their establishments. In addition, about 10,000 stray animals are placed each year in various civilian - operated animal shelters. Due to the high number of stray animals and the risk they pose, the eradication of the pedigree settlements is currently not a realistic option. However, there is a need to review the outdated regulation governing the operation of lawn lawns. Accordingly, a Government Decree on detailed rules for the performance of tasks related to the reception, transfer of ownership and placement of stray animals is being developed, with the aim of laying down detailed and up-to-date rules on the tasks to be performed by the police establishment and by the dog inspector. In the framework of administrative and social consultation, the draft will, of course, be sent to all stakeholders, including civil animal protection organisations, so that we can take their views into account when drafting the regulation. In addition to the planned legislative changes, we see it as the only reliable means of keeping the dog and cat populations at a manageable level and preventing unwanted growth. This is why we launched our spaying program in the autumn of 2013, during which the Faculty of Veterinary Science of St. Stephen's University, in accordance with the agreement concluded with FM and Nébih, performed the neutering of a thousand orphan dogs living in approved animal shelters with the participation of veterinary students. The programme has been successfully completed and we plan to continue it. Our aim is to increase the chances of adopting animals and to encourage responsible livestock farming. [[There's constant noise in the room.]] Dear Parliament, In our joint work in the field of animal protection, it can be a great help that, if the draft budget for 2017 is adopted, it will be possible to set up a new appropriation to support animal protection. This will provide financial resources for animal protection, for example, to support the modernisation of shelters and pebbleyards, to inform the population about responsible livestock farming, to develop attitudes and to continue a successful spaying programme. The congressman is banging open doors because the government is committed to animal protection. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-24-20	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member Gergely Gulyás, vice-president of the Parliament, also applied for a speech before the agenda. Before I give the floor, Mr Vice-President, I would like to ask my fellow Members to take their seats. The ground noise is very high in the room, you can hardly hear the speaker. Thank you for your understanding. Mr. Vice President, you have the floor.
u2016-05-24-21	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, It is well known that so far in the European Union, two decisions have been taken in the past year for the resettlement of millions of people in Europe. The first provided for the transfer of 160,000 people from Greece and Italy. This decision was challenged by Hungary before the Court of Justice of the European Union. We have said that, in our view, this decision is not only a violation of Community law, it is not only a violation of countless constitutions in the Member States, but it is also clear that it is unenforceable. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Why did you vote for him in the Council...]] Experience has shown that this kind of distribution mechanism, which shifts a group of people to other countries in a mass, collective manner, is inoperative. In practice, 1500 people have not been relocated so far. Nevertheless, the European Union has not been deterred from pursuing bad practice. What we see is that a second Commission proposal has been made that would now divide people between Member States without a cap in the last year. Firstly, it is justified to clarify why it is worth saying people, since there is also a language battle on whether it is refugees, immigrants and terrorists. We've known about everyone since Paris. There are those who have actually been considered refugees somewhere else, adding, of course, that no international convention gives any refugee the right to choose the country he wants to live in. There are those who come to Europe for economic purposes only, in the hope of a better life; and some who have come here in the last year, for example, after that, in the brutal massacre in Paris. Therefore, in our view, the European Union's proposal for a decision also clearly violates Community law, is equally unenforceable, and it is in Hungary's absolute national interest to act as effectively as possible. Since the Commission would hand over the procedures, we do not know who would arrive in Hungary. The Member State should decide who is a refugee and who is not a refugee after the transfer. Moreover, there is no guarantee that the transferred person will wait for the end of the procedure here in this country. So what we can say is that the Hungarian government and the Hungarian Parliament have the right to decide who we want to live with in Hungary and who we do not want to live with in Hungary in a referendum. The proposal by the European Commission alone makes our situation very difficult; it makes it very difficult for those who have argued for entry into the European Union, and who still believe that Hungary's place is within the European Union, because to this extent the European Commission has never put a proposal that undermines the authority of the European Union's institutional system on the table. Let us not forget that the European Commission threatens Member States that do not wish to accept forced resettlement by paying an amount equal to HUF 80 million for each refugee, for each migrant, for each person they wish to relocate and for whom a Member State would not take over. But the European Commission spokesperson immediately comes to the aid of those who believe that this is some kind of unfair punishment, and to make the Commission's situation worse, informs us that this is not a punishment, that the cost is an arrived one, I add: illegal supply of immigrants crossing borders. We believe that Hungary is still in a clear interest of membership of the European Union, but it should also be made clear that about one Hungarian citizen receives HUF 1 million from a seven-year EU budget cycle. Compared to the fact that 80 million forints have to be paid due to the rejection of the relocation of an immigrant, this is a degree of disproportion, a threat to which a sovereign state clearly has to say no. The Hungarian government is convinced that we must determine who we want to live with. It is not possible to hide behind the cover of humanitarian aid when all the research clearly shows that EUR 1 aid in Europe is worth EUR 20 in the crisis region. It is where those who are truly refugees must be helped and Europe's external borders must be protected. External border protection is the only solution and mandatory forced resettlement must be rejected in the strongest possible way. Therefore, we ask all parties, all those involved in Hungarian public life, to consider it a national matter, so that the Parliament can determine who it wishes to live with and who it does not wish to live with in Hungary. Everyone should be encouraged to participate in the referendum, and let us clearly say no to this crazy proposal. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-24-22	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-05-24-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Allow me to briefly comment on some aspects of forced resettlement in my response. [[9.50]] What is most important, indeed, is that the European Commission has put a proposal on the table, which is about a permanent mechanism whereby all immigrants arriving in Europe would be distributed among the Member States, and this procedure would be mandatory, which is why the word fits, forced resettlement. If a Member State does not accept this, it will face a fine of HUF 78 million each. This amount of HUF 78 million is outrageous because we know that a Hungarian person will work for this amount for 40 years. One Hungarian receives one million forints of EU funding, which is why it is outrageous. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: And how much did you steal?]] Moreover, the supply of immigrants already costs heavy amounts under the current rules, Hungary has to spend more than HUF 4,000 on supplying a migrant in a reception centre. Otherwise, calculations are carried out elsewhere on the costs incurred. According to the calculations of a German economic research institute, Germany has to spend EUR 17 billion this year and EUR 23 billion next year to provide and accommodate immigrants, including language courses and integration courses, so that costs can reach EUR 50 billion in a short period of time, almost reaching the GDP level of a smaller country. This amount should be produced by the government, the provinces and the municipalities in Germany, which could lead to severe debt - says the Cologne Institute's analysis. We can ask ourselves that, if handling the migration crisis is such a huge burden for Germany, what can Hungary expect? We are curious about what the pro-immigration left says, how to raise these costs, how to raise the costs of supplying immigrants, or just how to raise the amount of sanctions per head of 78 million. Those who consider uncontrolled immigration to be a good opportunity, however, point to the fact that migration can also be a solution to labour market problems. This point is absurd because in many countries of Europe the situation is that every second youth is unemployed. According to Eurostat, Greece accounts for almost 50 per cent, Spain for 48 per cent, Croatia for 43 per cent youth unemployment, and Italy for more than 40 per cent unemployed. [[Noise.]] We therefore believe that the primary responsibility of the European Union would be to give them, the young people who already live here, jobs. In recent times, we have seen that where these aspects are ignored, surprising election results are produced. These few examples show that the introduction of forced resettlement can lead to severe social tensions, not solving job creation problems [[The president's ringing the bell.]] It would be an inaccessible financial burden. In addition to all this, as has been said several times, security risks are increased and unlawful, because those affected, European citizens, have not been asked whether they want this solution. Dear House, These few risks are just enough reasons to say a strong, loud no to forced resettlement in the forthcoming referendum, and we must stand up for Hungary. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-24-24	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats and check that their cards have been placed in the voting machine. Dear Parliament, Coming up next is 21 of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. T/10502 on the publication of the Paris Agreement at its Conference Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10502. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament unanimously adopted the bill by 160 votes in favour. It follows that T/10309 on the amendment of certain laws concerning the financial intermediary system will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10309/6. T/10309/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, Jobbik's group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Dániel Z. Kárpát. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 52 votes in favour, 114 against and without abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained the amendment proposal, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/10309/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 112 votes in favour, 33 against and 21 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10309/9. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 113 votes to 27, with 26 abstentions. The 2011 CLXXXIX on the local governments of Hungary follows a series. T/10306. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10306/8. and the summary report by T/10306/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. § 4 of the Jobbik Group proposed that amendments No 2 and 3 be maintained. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 2 was tabled by Gábor Staudt and Csaba Gyüre. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 49 votes in favour, 110 against and 7 abstentions. Amendment 3 was tabled by Csaba Gyüre. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 49 votes in favour, 112 against and 5 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/10306/8. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 112 votes to 56, with 1 abstention. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1030/11. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 112 votes in favour, 57 against and 1 abstention. Next up is the T/10267 on state officials. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10267/31. T/10267/32. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. Pursuant to paragraphs (4) of paragraph 4 of Section 4, Jobbik's group proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 18, 20 and 23 and the MSZP group of amendments Nos 5, 9 and 14. That's what we're gonna decide first. [[10.00]] Amendment No 18 was proposed by Csaba Gyüre and Gábor Staudt. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 50 votes in favour, 113 against and 8 abstentions. Amendment 20 is proposed by Csaba Gyüre and Gábor Staudt. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 53 votes in favour, 113 against and 6 abstentions. Amendment 23 is proposed by Csaba Gyüre and Gábor Staudt. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 53 votes in favour, 117 against and two abstentions. Amendment 5 is proposed by István Józsa and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 116 against and without abstentions. Amendment 9 is proposed by István Józsa and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 117 votes in favour and no abstentions. Amendment 14 is proposed by Gergely Bárándy. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 60 votes in favour, 115 against and without abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/10267/31. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 141 votes to 31, with 4 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10267/35. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 140 votes in favour, 36 against and without abstentions. The 2007 LX on the implementation framework for the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and its Kyoto Protocol follows. Act CCXVII of 2012 on participation in the Community greenhouse gas trading scheme and the implementation of the effort-sharing decision. T/10314. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10314/6. T/10314/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/10314/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment with 175 unanimous votes in favour. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10314/8. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 170 votes in favour, not without a vote, with 6 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We now decide on the inclusion of a series of proposals. I would like to remind you that yesterday, the Parliament has already held a hearing on these matters. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles on the sixth amendment of the Fundamental Law of Hungary by Mrs Bernadett LMP, T/8563. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the bill with 58 votes in favour, 112 against and three abstentions. I am asking you whether you will consider a series of amendments to certain laws by Mr András Schiffer, Mr LMP, in order to prohibit transactions for the benefit of offshore businesses and to remove the offshore operation of the state, T/9741. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the bill with 58 votes in favour, 114 votes against and no abstentions. I ask you whether you will include the 2011 CCII on the use of Hungary's coat of arms and flags and state medals in order to withdraw the State medals granted to unworthy persons by Dóra Dúró and György Szilágyi, Jobbik, Members. T/10174. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the bill with 53 votes in favour, 113 against and 7 abstentions. I ask you, will Gábor Vona and his fellow Members Jobbik include the sixth amendment of Hungary's Fundamental Law, T/10191. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the bill with 23 votes in favour, 125 against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. Thank you for your cooperation. [[It's a short break. Some Members leave the Chamber.]] [[10.10]] Dear Parliament, I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats, and we will continue our work. Thank you for your cooperation and understanding. After you take your seats, we'll continue our work. Dear Parliament, There will be a general discussion of the bill between the Government of Hungary and the World Health Organisation on the publication of the agreement on the establishment of the World Health Organisation's Budapest Centre until closure. Government referral T-10725. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Minister for Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó, author of the item on the agenda [[It's constant noise.]] I would also like to ask my fellow Members to take their seats once again, with great emphasis. Thank you for your understanding. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2016-05-24-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to explain to you, for some thought, the details of the agreement between the Government of Hungary and the World Health Organisation, WHO, and I would like to ask for your support in order for the Parliament to also proclaim this international agreement by law. First of all, everyone in this room clearly knows that the World Health Organisation is the United Nations' specialized organisation on health issues, founded in 1948, and acts as a coordinating and governing body for global health. WHO's top priority is to ensure that all people achieve the highest possible level of health and that access to high-quality healthcare is fairly accessible throughout the world. WHO has an extensive network of seven thousand employees worldwide. With regard to the UN, there has been an attempt in recent years to move their various specialised institutions and organisations from Geneva, since the stay in Geneva and the operation in Geneva are extremely cost-intensive and have set out to be more efficient in terms of financing. Accordingly, the World Health Organization has also decided to relocate some of its functions currently in Geneva to Budapest. First, the centre for coordinating human resources moves to Hungary, we started negotiations on this at the end of last year, in December, and this year the World Health Organization confirmed its intention to bring this centre to Budapest in March. This decision of the WHO is entirely in the same direction as the Hungarian Government's intentions, as we intend to bring as many UN specialised organisations and as many international institutions as possible to Budapest. This is good for Hungary, because this is a step forward for the employment of the Hungarian skilled workforce, the Hungarian skilled workforce can gain international professional experience, and if a large international organisation or UN specialized institution brings its headquarters to Hungary, it organises events and conferences, from which professional and, of course, financial positive effects can be kept here. We can see that Hungary is particularly well in this competition because of the comparative advantages offered by Budapest, because the geographical location of Budapest, its infrastructure capabilities, the existence of a highly qualified, foreign language-speaking workforce and the advanced financial and IT sector allow it to offer international organisations opportunities that are worth bringing these centres to Budapest from a budgetary and professional point of view. The World Health Organisation plans to install its central service functions in Budapest in several phases, and as a first step it decided to transfer the world organisation's human resources and personnel administrative activities. This involves installing 28 international employees to Budapest in the first step, and the World Health Organization will decide in what schedule and schedule it will bring its other functions to Hungary on the basis of the operational experience here. The agreement, like the other UN organisations operating in Budapest, the UNHCR and UNICEF, settles the legal framework for the operation of the Budapest Centre, as well as the legal status of the Budapest Centre and the legal status of its staff, the privileges and immunities that can be granted to them. On 11 May, István Mikola signed this contract with the Deputy Director General of the WHO, Hans Troedsson. The agreement consists of 16 articles and the law provides for the publication of the authentic English and Hungarian texts of the agreement. The government has decided on the placement of the World Health Organisation headquarters in Budapest, the conditions of operation and the provision of the necessary financial resources, in a separate decision, the issue of this decision is under way. Accommodation in 2016, taking into account the one-off costs of accommodation, will cost approximately HUF 300 million in budget expenditure, and then we will have to provide HUF 200 million per year from the budget. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for your support in order to increase cooperation between Hungary and the United Nations from the point of view of Budapest being the target of moving out of Geneva as often as possible, or I ask you to support this bill now, so that it can be announced. Thank you for your attention, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-24-26	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Congresswoman!
u2016-05-24-27	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, The fact that the World Health Organization, one of the most important specialised agencies of the United Nations, is setting up a headquarters in Budapest indicates that Hungary is increasingly expected in various international and global organisations. Hungary is a country that can be looked at as a reliable partner in dealing with global problems, seeking solutions to them. This is also the case in the field of water management or asylum, and so is the world's fight against child poverty. WHO aims to work towards improving health quality at global level and to ensure the highest level of health available to each individual. The Fidesz fraction supports and welcomes the government's agreement with WHO on the establishment of the World Health Organisation headquarters in Budapest in May 2016. WHO has been operating the WHO country office in Hungary since 1991. The signed agreement is a further manifestation of the Hungarian government's commitment to the organization's work in the field of public health. WHO will provide personnel and administrative services to the staff of the organisation at a global level through the Budapest Centre. WHO's decision is in line with the decision of the government and Fidesz to increase the presence of UN institutions in Hungary. We strive to make Hungary an inclusive centre of international organisations, in particular the UN and its specialised institutions, in Central Europe. [[10.20]] The construction of infrastructure and the positive experience of UN organisations operating a service centre in Budapest must have been a key factor in the establishment of the Budapest centre. These include the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the World Food and Agriculture Organisation or even the United Nations Children's Fund. In addition, the WHO's recognition of the Hungarian government's health-preservation programme, an important element of which is the strict regulation of tobacco control for young people and future generations, could contribute to this decision. This health-preserving activity was recognised by the World Health Organization, WHO, in such a way that the Prime Minister of the country was decorated in 2013 for this activity. Dear Minister, Dear Parliament, The Fidesz fraction supports the proposal submitted and proposes to this House for adoption. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. István Józsa, applauding: I applaud instead! Dr. László Kács: Only the Józsa liked it.]]
u2016-05-24-28	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-24-29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by saying that the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party naturally supports the adoption of this proposal, since it is always of paramount importance for Hungary if an international organisation decides to place its headquarters in Hungary, here in Budapest. Thus, we believe that it is right in this proposal that the Hungarian Government provides the legal framework for the operation of this centre, which must be given to the host country at centres with such diplomatic status. So it is certainly a kind of success for the country that a specialised UN institution brings its headquarters to Hungary. If I have read the proposal correctly, later in the UN, the WHO will assess how these decentralised bodies function effectively and, where appropriate, it will be possible to move forward. If I remember correctly, 28-30 people will start working in Budapest. So later, it is possible to expand this centre and to carry out as many tasks as possible beyond the current administrative and human issues. But speaking of WHO and talking about it in this House, there is one thing that might be worth noting. From now on, it is perhaps even more important for the Hungarian Government to take into account the recommendations of the WHO on various issues, such as WHO signals on cancer, or many other proposals on prevention or life-long. If Hungary has become such a priority country on the part of the WHO, then it is also worth taking seriously the professional work carried out there, and the scientific and professional findings that the WHO has proposed to the Member States, it is worth putting into practice in Hungary, as this can also show Hungary's commitment. Not least, and most importantly, these professional proposals will certainly improve the Hungarian public health situation, so there are not only smoking but also a number of other issues where it is worth considering. Overall, let me repeat once again what I started with: the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party is pleased that this department is going to Hungary, and therefore the adoption of this legislation will, of course, be supported by the MSZP faction. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-05-24-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László György Lukács, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-24-31	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, The Jobbik Movement for Hungary also supports the proposal and welcomes the change in the way in which the UN Health Organization, the UN specialized institution, intends to set up a centre in Budapest and move most of its activities here. Overall, the proposal, the treaty itself, and the agreement that we intend to conclude with the world organisation, essentially complies with customary law and the conditions that have been established so far. However, it is also important to highlight and draw attention to the fact that although it is a prestigious and honoured activity in the future, many, if you like, will impose a fiscal burden on Hungary. The Minister has just mentioned that a one-time HUF 300 million, then, if I read and correct my assumptions, which I have read out of the agreement, it will cost a HUF 200 million maintenance cost for 15 years to the centre of this specialized institution in Budapest. If we calculate it, it will amount to HUF 16 billion in 15 years. We give this HUF 16 billion to a specialized organization as a state aid, which seems to be large enough, especially when comparing the health activities of the specialized organisation and the health situation in Hungary. Of course, I am not saying that there is no need for it, it is very necessary for such a centre to be in Hungary, but when we say that this organization must be here and our expectations, we expect that it may pay more attention to the health situation in Hungary once a centre is here, and we also need to state our expectation that there are organisations in Hungarian health care that could safely be supported by HUF 200 million for 15 years. It is safe to say that for example, organizations that supply hospices would need that grant of HUF 200 million a year, and indeed there are findings and professional materials that the WHO can put on the table. Mónika Dunai, my colleague, mentioned that Hungary has received recognition for Hungarian health protection. It should also be noted, however, that Hungary receives not only recognition but also reprimands from the WHO, and with its mass and most of the pans, the devastating criticisms that we receive not only from the WHO, but also from the OECD, as well as from other organisations dealing with health and social indicators. If nothing else, we may have so many expectations, although the government and the Hungarian Parliament do not have any tasks, obligations or rights to interfere with the operation of the WHO, but we would still have so many expectations to investigate the situation of Hungarian health care. We expect the government to take seriously the signals from the WHO, which are included in the reports, as previously formulated, when there is a centre for such a specialized institution in Budapest. The government would be free to begin to eradicate cancer and cancer, to fight these diseases completely, or to begin to improve the availability of health care, which has also been mentioned in WHO criticism, thus improving the availability of health services. Currently, there are several settlements in Hungary where 45 percent of the population are unable to properly use healthcare services. This can also be found in WHO reports. If we are talking about WHO, ladies and gentlemen, you should always put on top of such a joyful event the obligations, the omissions that, in addition to the laudations and boasts, are on the shoulders of the government. Overall, we can safely conclude that it will be a serious, great force for the state, but the prestige of such an institution with its headquarters in Budapest may be able to offset this great spending and this great commitment from the Hungarian state. I think it will be really useful if the centre of Budapest is here, if they can carry out excellent professional work in the centre of Budapest, if the WHO can rationalise its activities not only on a cost-based basis, but also make its activities more quality and quality. [[10.30]] And nevertheless, as attention is also drawn to us by the fact that this centre is here, and the Hungarian government can take seriously the obligations, suggestions and reports expressed by the WHO, which must be taken seriously, because we also see that the Hungarian health indicators are under the bottom of the frog - if such a term can be used. We are one of the worst in the whole European Union, but also in the developed countries. If nothing else, a bell ringing will be good for this organization to move here. I believe that, and although this does not belong to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, it would be more the responsibility of another ministry, but such a body is good for moving to Hungary to direct the interest of politics to health problems. Put it in the front of the government, the government, to put an end to the health crisis, as the WHO has reported on many occasions. Now they'll be here at least close to the body, we can hear these problems from close to the body. To sum up, however, it must be said that, overall, the proposal calls for support, moving to Budapest for such a prestigious, hard-working institution for the country and for the population. If you like, it will bring a good reputation, if you like, reflect well on the Hungarian state and the Hungarian environment. Therefore, it must be supported. But let the message be that, with this move, we should draw attention to health crisis points, and the government should at last focus on solving these areas, dealing with problems, and not just mashing about them, but on actually solving problems and carrying out solutions. Overall, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary will support the bill. Thank you very much, fellow Members. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-24-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. As the independent Members have not indicated their intention to speak, no one has applied for a two-minute speech, there will now be further speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Nyitrai, Fidesz Group.
u2016-05-24-33	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, I think that the material before us is a very important proposal, the publication by law of an international agreement, which we hope all Members of Parliament, every faction, can support here in this House. I think that the government's ambition to strengthen the presence of UN institutions in Hungary and to strengthen Hungary's capacity to become an inclusive centre for international organisations in Europe is a very good direction. If this is achieved and the Parliament can support it, it is definitely a major success, a major success for Hungary and a major success for the health sector. I think that the coming of such an international centre to Budapest will certainly increase and strengthen Hungary's prestige, as this is a serious recognition. A recognition that we have received in the past in terms of asylum or food, namely that the World Health Organisation, which deals with the management and coordination of global health care, counts on Hungary and Budapest as such a strong strategic partner. So I would like to congratulate Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, and his team, on their ability to bring this agreement to an end, and I wish to see as many of these proposals as possible in the coming period. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-24-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Legény, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2016-05-24-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is important to point out that my fellow Member Mesterházy has already said in his speech as a speaker that the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party naturally supports the bill before us, and in relation to the bill, I would like to point out that, like several specialised institutions of the United Nations and other international organisations, the WHO intends to make its activities more effective by outsourcing certain services from their, let us say, cost-intensive centres, and, in line with this, first plans to implement the deployment of a centre for coordinating human resources in Hungary. The negotiations on plans and options for transferring some of the WHO's global service providers' functions to Budapest started in December 2015, at the end of last year, and now in March they confirmed this intention, that they would like to set up this centre here in Budapest, and now they signed the agreement in May. WHO envisages the relocation of these functions in several phases. As a first step, it is planned to move the human resources and personnel administrative activities of the global organisation with 28 international staff; I think this will mean a very good number of colleagues. It is envisaged that the WHO will continue to review and monitor the activities of the Centre, and will decide, depending on the results, both the number of staff and the function, on possible further expansion, probably for a long-term stay. We believe that this is absolutely commendable, and therefore, as I mentioned, the Hungarian Socialist Party will support the bill. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President.
u2016-05-24-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Statement by Mr László Teleki, MSZP Group. I give you the floor.
u2016-05-24-37	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, The faction, when it discussed this issue, I also supported the adoption of this on behalf of the Hungarian Socialist Party, because I consider it very important that such an international organisation can be established here in Hungary. And the reason I think it is very important right now is because I think that we certainly hope for a change in two things within the Hungarian Socialist Party. One of the things Attila Mesterházy mentioned was that the position of the coral will change and that the WHO's organization will give signals that are definitely moving in this direction. This means that today our Hungarian compatriots die much sooner than in other European Western European countries than the European average. So, therefore, there is something for the government to do, and there is something for the profession to do that is not the case, so I think it is very important that the institution is located here and that it may be able to give signals that will change this situation. But the Roma population in Hungary is also involved in the same thing, which I would like to highlight, because it can be seen that the Roma in Hungary will die much sooner than the Hungarian people, about 10-12 years before the non-Roma, and they will die about 15 years before the European average. I think that the signal that the Hungarian government or the Hungarian profession receives from the international organisation is very important, because it cannot be a party dependent on the death rate in Hungary, whether for the Roma or not. So this international organisation will change this issue at some level. The other, and perhaps I should have started with this, should have put the same emphasis on prevention, because you can see that when you talk about preventing some of the diseases, such as cancer or narrow blood vessels, or I could tell you about other diseases, you don't see a scenario that really treats this thing. If we could write a good script for this, we wouldn't have the high mortality rate I was talking about. As a result, I place a very high emphasis on prevention, and the signals that we have received from the international institution, for the government in any case, will provide guidance for the profession, which will allow us to invest much more energy on prevention, prevention than ever before. I think this is important, as I said, both for Roma and not for Roma, because the mortality rate and the number of diseases will be much less, so that we may have to spend less on health than we have spent so far. But, of course, this does not mean that Hungary has no problem with it, that the profession, especially and the government, has a lot of work to do with it, and the most important thing is that they try to comb together common international experiences and Hungarians, and, therefore, we could find a phenomenon in Hungary that points in the direction that there are far healthier people and people with longer lives than there have been so far. Therefore, the Hungarian Socialist Party welcomes this bill, and, of course, as our lead speaker has already said, we support the law. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-24-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group. Here you go. [[10.40]]
u2016-05-24-39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I just want to confirm one thing. In fact, the story is that when and when the World Health Organization places on Hungary a specific part of its institutional system related to the provision of human resources, either on any surface, or to the expansion of the numbers, in Hungary, the Hungarian Socialist Party welcomes the appearance of any other type of organisation in Budapest. It welcomes the fact that we believe that all these processes - not going into the details - can directly influence, shape and shape not only those cases in an indirect way, but also those which my colleague László Teleki spoke about earlier. This is also essential because, if nothing else, if we take into account only those two items, that in Hungary there are a tremendous number of people living in poverty, and the high number of people living in poverty are, in some respects, closely correlated with the development of the health situation, resulting in these changes, the progress made in this area is also essential. But with regard to mortality and death, we also have a clear and clear picture that, unfortunately, Hungary is one of the countries in Europe where life is much shorter for both women and men, although it is 7 years higher for women than for Hungarian men. What I mean to say is, yes, there is room for prevention, prevention, shaping, shaping and expanding the field of action in this regard. Some elements of any such institution, system or institutional system can help, as I said, directly, so we welcome it. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-05-24-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I wonder if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I will ask Minister Péter Szijjártó if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Peter Szijjártó and Dr. Richard Hörcsik are talking to each other. Dr. András Schiffer: He's busy! For signal:]] Yes, I give you the floor, Minister. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-24-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am grateful to my fellow Members who are constantly trying to help me with my work here in Parliament. I would like to thank you for your support from both the pro-government and the opposition. I think that the aspects that the ladies and gentlemen in this House have been kind enough to raise are all to be appreciated and considered. Of course, when we provide financial support to bring such a specialised institution to Budapest - I say this to the lead speaker of Jobbik - we can assess it from a job creation point of view in the foreign and economic institutional system, so what resources are mobilised by the health budget, what objectives are not related to the sources of job creation. At the same time, I also agree with the socialist party speakers that, obviously, the Budapest appearance of the centre of such a global organisation dealing with health tends to focus attention on Hungarian health in general and can launch various modernisation processes. I welcome the fact that there are cases that clearly serve national interests and have the support of all the parties in Parliament that are represented. I am not sure that we can say the same sentence at the end of the debate at the next item. Thank you very much for your support and thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-24-42	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the proposal for a decision on the requirements for an EU trade and investment agreement with third countries will follow until closure. The submission by Mr András Schiffer, Mr LMP, Member H/9798. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2016-05-24-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Each word in free trade agreements is a lie. 'Aw,' said Noam Chomsky recently. Another renowned American senator, the presidential candidate of the Democratic Party, Bernie Sanders recently said: "I don't believe in unlimited free trade. I believe in a fair trade that works for middle class and working families, not just multinational corporations. This whole free trade obsession comes from corporate leaders who just want to make more and more money and make more profits, but they don't care the least about the population. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I wanted to advance these quotes in the debate on this proposal for a resolution because I would like to make it clear that the debate, the conflict with the United States of America, is not between the United States of America and the European Union or the United States of America and, say, the Eastern European countries. The conflict, the conflict between global corporations and people, the conflict lies between giant corporations and human natural values. It should also be borne in mind that just a few weeks ago, Greenpeace published documents showing the true nature of the current free trade negotiations, the so-called CETA between Canada and Europe, and the TTIP between the United States and Europe, as well as the Service Trade Agreement, the TISA. The Greenpeace Papers show that the draft free trade agreement between America and the European Union will degrade Europe's environmental rules. It is also clear that when it comes to trade restrictions, the protection of the health and life of animals and plants, the protection of human health and the conservation of depleted natural resources are a secondary aspect. On the other hand, there have been serious developments in global climate policy in the Greenpeace papers. It is important to draw attention to this because it was a few days ago that the President of Hungary drew attention to the importance of ratifying the Paris climate agreement. At the same time, and later in the Commission's debate, we said that these agreements, these climate agreements, will be worth anything until other agreements are carved in a neighbouring secret room that will frustrate the implementation of these climate agreements. That's exactly what's happening right now. The Greenpeace papers show this: while the Paris Climate Convention clearly states that global warming must be kept below 1.5 degrees Celsius to prevent a climate disaster affecting billions of people, the chapters on TTIP regulatory cooperation and product market access limit the scope of climate protection measures which otherwise aim to achieve this 1.5 degrees Celsius target. In English, in vain, let's say, a climate agreement in Paris in November 2015, these free trade agreements will destroy both Kyoto and Paris. Thirdly, it is also quite clear that these free trade agreements, and in particular I would like to draw attention to the free trade agreement between Canada and the European Union before ratification, but here Greenpeace documents show that the draft free trade agreement between TTIP, the US and the European Union also breaks off the precautionary principle and contains a so-called risk-based approach. This wording may not say much at first, but at a time when practically every parliamentary faction in this House has believed that Hungary's GMO-freeness must be preserved, we do well to pay attention to these formulas. There will never be an agreement, either in the European Union or globally, that will say that we will lift the GMO exemption. [[10.50]] There will never be one that says we're banning GMO-free. It is about the fact that European environmental law and Hungarian law are based on the precautionary principle today, so that it is not possible to place on the market a product for which we have not ruled out 100% that it has no adverse effects on human health, future generations, natural resources, animal and plant health. That's the precautionary principle. On the other hand, the risk-based approach is in place in North America, the US and Canada, which is about the fact that it is only possible to prevent a product from being placed on a shelf if it has been proven with great certainty by the State regulator that that product is indeed harmful. I think that there is a clear contradiction between the two approaches. The problem with GMOs today is precisely that we cannot rule out 100% whether it will not do irreparable damage, whether it will do unforgivable damage to the lives and health of our offspring. When either the Canadian Convention or the draft TTIP interrupt the precautionary principle, it means that Hungary cannot be GMO-free. So the starting point in this House can only be that if we stick to the requirements of the Fundamental Law and the Hungarian Fundamental Law contains Hungary's GMO exemption, Hungary should never, in any way, be a party to an international agreement that breaks the precautionary principle. Or if Hungary does emulate itself in such free trade pacts with some bureaucratic hocus pocus, then it must be said that Hungarian bureaucracy has thrown away Hungary's GMO-free nature and has thrown away the competitive advantage of Hungarian agriculture that it is still possible to produce good-quality food and good-quality agricultural products in the Carpathian Basin. Dear Parliament, I think it is very important to be aware of the long-term global effects of these free trade agreements. And here, at this point, it must be made clear that the free trade agreements that are starting to entangle the entire planet today, if you will, are unorthodox free trade agreements. They're not like XX. Free trade agreements of the 20th century on how tariffs can be reduced. It should be noted that the countries of periphery and semi-periphery may have benefited from customs tariffs, so let's just think about the early rise of South Korea. These free trade agreements are no longer about tariffs. It is clear from the negotiating bureaucrats when they say that they are seeking to break down non-commercial barriers. What do these lobbyists and these bureaucrats mean by non-commercial barriers? All the rules that national parliaments have created to protect people's health, natural resources and cultural heritage. Any non-commercial limitations that do not generate profit. They want to break down everything that hinders profit drives and, where appropriate, to preserve natural resources, the well-being of people, national traditions and cultural heritage. So let's be very clear: it's been a long time since the game of XX. In the 18th century, they were simply trying to break down customs duties and tariffs. When talking about non-commercial barriers as barriers to be overcome, they talk about health, labour law, food safety, environmental protection and climate protection rules. That's the stakes. The stakes are whether we want this planet to be entangled by agreements that make it impossible to avoid a single principle of profit. These free trade agreements bring us a world where nothing else will matter but profit. And there will be only one goal for global large companies to be able to satisfy their profit hunger without obstacles. And one more thing. No misunderstanding, these conventions are attacking national sovereignty. That is why I said in my introduction that this is not just a conflict between one state or another, one great power and other countries. Today, the stakes are whether democratic decision-making will be replaced by global large companies. For example, the Greenpeace Papers say that if and if the TTIP is ratified, if the Hungarian Parliament forms food safety, health and environmental rules, representatives of these global large companies should be involved in the negotiations in advance. Dear Parliament, This means that from now on Hungary will not be a national consultation, but will have to conduct a multinational consultation if it does not want to pay billions of dollars. That's what these conventions are all about. That's what's in the Greenpeace papers. Dear Parliament, What is at stake is that if we give way to these free trade agreements, there is indeed a danger that local cultures and national cultures that still exist today will be replaced by a consumer society, a straitjacket imposed on us by global corporations. At the end of this process there will also be the destruction of national identities and cultural heritage. There should be no doubt: if these big corporate wills prevail, there will be no talking about local identities and national identities anywhere in the world in between 50 and 100 years. The strategy of these large companies is very clear: to force an equal product, an equal way of life throughout the world, to optimise their marketing strategy. Therefore, if a person is committed to serving the purpose of local communities, of national survival, he must clearly and firmly say no to any large enterprise effort, any free trade agreement that forces us to have a homogeneous world. That's what's at stake today. We also need to see that, for example, the Canadian Convention, called CETA, which is about to be ratified, is an early warning. What is included in the Canadian agreement will be included in the TTIP, i.e. the agreement between the US and the European Union. It is also clear that the Free Trade Agreement between the European Union and Russia is also being concluded for this template. It doesn't matter if in this case Russian corporations or large American companies are the beneficiaries. Those who will lose are the simple people who will lose, the local communities that will lose are our natural environment. Dear Parliament, We must also pay attention - American Professor Capaldo's research clearly shows this - that it is not true that the upcoming TTIP would lead to great economic growth. A half-percent increase in GDP may be expected in Europe over ten years. Slovenian research is about Slovenia's recession in the event of the TTIP's entry into force. In Hungary, a 0.1-0.3 percent increase in GDP may be diagnosed within 10 years. Is it really worth throwing everything away for? And if we look at Europe alone, the situation is that in 2012 agricultural trade between the European Union and the United States of America was about $12 billion. What the European Union produced with high-quality food in organic farming is $23 billion. So European agriculture is a net loser of this story. It's not even financially worth it. To make it clear why I am talking about the conflict between one country or another, one region or another, and let us say Hungary or Eastern Europe, or the conflict between Europe and the United States: it is also very clear that large European companies, where they are happy, behave exactly the same way as large American companies. [[11.00]] For example, the European Union's open intention is to abolish the so-called Buy American Act, the regulation that favours local products, local workers, in several Member States of the United States. Buy an American. The same way that it would obviously hinder the promotion of Hungarian goods or the preference of local entrepreneurs in Hungary. So what this free trade agreement entails is breaking down non-commercial barriers, it's a downward competition. On one side, it is in the primary interest of US giant companies to break down hard environmental, food health and food safety rules in Europe, which currently do not allow 40 percent of US food products to be placed on European shelves. On the other hand, large European companies do not have a party either, if you like, that there are rules in the United States that are hard to protect local products. Or to give you another example, after the financial crisis in 2008, the United States has put in place far more serious financial regulations in order to unplug or prevent a variety of real estate balloons than the European Union. On the part of the European banks, there is an effort to loosen up these tough US financial regulations, which threaten to create new financial crises and serve only the interests of speculators. Dear Parliament, The proposal for a decision I have tabled consists of two points and three elements. On the one hand, we would like to achieve a clear mandate for the Hungarian government that Hungary represents the so-called mixed competence of these conventions. In English, when they are put into effect, national parliaments cannot be bypassed. It is easy to see that if something is a matter of sovereignty today, it is that today a democratic state, whether Hungary or another EU State, can freely decide on matters of health, environmental protection, food safety or education through its elected representatives. Or may it be necessary to involve representatives of large companies in the preparation of decisions already? Or could it be that if a freely elected parliament, or a government with a democratic mandate, decides on certain health issues, say, for the sake of the people, it will have to deal with billions of dollars of lawsuits in offshore courts? Do we want a world like this? Is there a more fundamental question of sovereignty than to preserve the national self-determination of Hungary and other states in establishing rules, for example, in environmental, health and food safety rules, to protect the health and life of people living here? It is therefore necessary to send a clear signal to the bureaucracy in Brussels that Hungary will not allow the accession of the national parliaments to the TTIP, but in the same way to the Canadian Convention, CETA or the Agreement on Trade in Services, TiSA. Secondly, the proposal for a resolution also includes that Hungary, the Hungarian Government, the Hungarian Prime Minister, who represents Hungary in the European Council, will not agree to the conclusion of a negotiation process where the convention represents a step backwards compared to the level already achieved in Europe by labour law, health, human rights, the environment and food safety. To be clear, this means that the Hungarian Prime Minister should be vetoing any free trade agreement in the European Council, which represents a step backwards from the level of food security, environmental protection, labour law and human rights already achieved in Europe. Thirdly, when we think of anti-democratic dispute resolution mechanisms when it comes to the text of the proposal for a resolution, it should be clear that this is about the fact that there can be no more assassination of democratic countries than to atone in private courts or offshore courts for otherwise creating different health and environmental rules under the authority of citizens. In Hungarian: we represent that Hungary does not wish to be a party to any pact that gives private courts the opportunity to settle disputes between the investor-state. It is not possible to allow private judges, offshore judges to judge freely elected governments, parliaments, national communities with decisions made in different secret rooms. When we talk about the competence of a nation state, it arises why we have brought it in at all now and why it is urgent to adopt this proposal for a resolution without softening it up. The Canadian Convention is about to be ratified. They intend to start ratifying the Canadian Convention in autumn, September. If the Canadian treaty passes, no more questions. Hungary's GMO-freeness is over, and we are in the trap where it will follow one another in the net of free trade agreements with the United States, Russia. Secondly, it is quite clear what the bureaucracy in Brussels is doing and the 600 lobbyists who accompany the US government, which is extremely sensitive to transparency and non-corruption, to the negotiations in Brussels. At the end of 2014, the European Commission decided to ask the Court of Justice of the European Communities for an official opinion on the competence of the EU-Singapore Free Trade Convention. Thus, a case is already under way, where European bureaucracy in relation to the Singapore Free Trade Convention, although it seeks to call into question the powers of national parliaments. Thirdly, there is a mechanism in CETA that may bring this convention before the Hungarian Parliament, and in the end Hungary may want to say no to this convention, for example, but it may be possible to enter into force temporarily for three years with the decision of the European Parliament. Therefore, Hungary must also pay serious compensation even if, for example, it vetoes this Convention only because of the maintenance of the GMO exemption, as to why it did not apply this Convention during the temporary entry into force period. And the reason why I mention GMO-free is because if, somewhere, it is very clear about GMO-free: if we dissolve Hungary's GMO-free status for just one week, then we are finished. Then, at that moment in Hungary, it is not possible to talk about the production of healthy food, the preservation of landscapes and the preservation of local culture. Dear Parliament, When we talk about the prohibition of withdrawal, of course, the first thing that must be highlighted is the preservation of the precautionary principle. But we also need to talk about the fact that, for example, chemical regulation is an area where giant companies in the United States are doing everything they can to break the strict rules of the European Union. But this is labour law; the United States of America is not a party to international conventions on collective labour law. That's the issue of food safety. In addition to the issue of GMO-free, think of hormone-treated beef. It has been shown that it is likely to be associated with cancers and that these products should be marketed in the United States of America. I have talked about the possibility of lifting the climate protection rules, and indeed the story reaches the public services. With regard to both TTIP and the Service Trade Agreement, the story may be that we need to open up public education, higher education and health markets. You could be threatened again by the horror of privatization in hospitals. And last but not least, it is also worth taking a look at the dangers faced by the entire European Union in relation to intellectual property rights. The United States is seeking, for example, to lift exemptions for schools, libraries and people with disabilities in relation to copyright. [[11.10]] But pharmaceutical companies can limit people's access to clinical data in connection with this agreement, so they can undermine transparency in health care. Dear Parliament, When it comes to the dispute resolution mechanism, I cannot bypass the fact that I am not quoting an American lobbyist, the lawyer at Ethyl Corp, who said:. It would not matter if the material intended to be used in breakfast cereals intended for children was liquid plutonium. If the government bans a material that will cause a company from the United States to lose profit, NAFTA's ability to claim compensation. You know what I'm It's the North American trade agreement, the 94. The logic of this threatens us as well. Nothing's expensive for these big corporations. The dispute resolution mechanism is about losing a single cent because a nation-state parliament or even the European Union makes such a rule that they can sue us for billions of dollars that are harmful to them. Think that if the European Union introduces a rule that, say, prohibits the placing on the market of menthol cigarettes or the Hungarian Parliament adopts such a rule, Philip Morris can sue European taxpayers or Hungarian taxpayers into coal. It should also be said what is the obscurity that surrounds these negotiations. We have repeatedly received good advice from the United States of America on how to be non-corruption, how to combat corruption, and how important transparency is. Compared to this, we see that it is humiliating to browse these documents in a secret room. I think Noam Chomsky is absolutely right, who speaks of these conventions as being a secret. It's a secret to the people, but it's no secret to lobbyists and big corporations. The 600 lobbyists who escort the American government to Brussels know everything. European citizens, but I risk it, but European governments know hardly anything. It must be made clear that Hungary is taking a position that it is an obstacle to these conventions, in itself, to the way they are obscured and secretive. Hungary cannot be a partner in ratifying a convention where democratic institutions and people were excluded in preparation. It must be made clear that we thank you, of course, for the good advice, but first, everyone cleans your port. Dear Parliament, It is also irrelevant, which the Hungarian Prime Minister also referred to last summer, and the European Union Justice Commissioner said in connection with the American wiretapping scandal: we cannot negotiate the huge transatlantic market if there is even the slightest suspicion that our partners are spying on our offices and negotiators. Dear Parliament, I would not, of course, like to put aside the arguments that are in favour of free trade agreements in Hungary as well. In a very simple way, the logic of the series of negotiations seems to be that on one side the great winner is the American agricultural business and on the other hand the European industry, especially the German major industry, the German automotive industry. So if we represent Hungarian interests, we must ask what future we intend for Hungary, what national strategy we are thinking about. I understand that those who think in a assembly country, who think that the future is in the very low value-added automotive industry, in the assembly industry, because even from the low value-added automotive industry, they bring only the simplest operations here, obviously they think that TTIP can be useful for Hungary. If, on the other hand, we want a renewable Hungary that wants to base Hungarian development on Hungarian traditions, on Hungarian intellectual performance, to produce high added value, then it is quite clear that these free trade agreements threaten Hungary's rise. They are putting Hungary's rise at risk, not least because TTIP and the other similar agreements pinpoint Hungary in the wrong dead end to which it was mixed after the change of regime. This convention is synonymous with Hungary signing its death sentence, because it states that it wishes to remain an assembly country forever, while giving up the traditional millennia of the richness of the Carpathian Basin, our natural heritage and our food and food production traditions. Therefore, what I am asking for in this proposal for a resolution is a minimum, and in other words we continue to strongly stand up from these negotiating tables in Hungary and stop the rush of giant companies against democratic states. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-24-44	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, who wishes to speak on behalf of the government. Mr. Secretary, please.
u2016-05-24-45	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, allow me to thank Mr András Schiffer and the LMP faction for submitting this parliamentary resolution proposal, given that this gives us the opportunity to debate a matter that is undoubtedly one of the most important external economic issues of the past and the coming period, in the most appropriate place in the Hungarian Parliament. But perhaps it is not right to simplify this in the field of the foreign economy, because, as Mr. Group leader said in his expozee, a free trade agreement is not only a whole national economy, but a whole country, and we are talking about a transcontinental agreement here, so it has a very serious impact on an entire continent and the future of an entire continent. Moreover, it is very timely and right that this parliamentary decision has come before us because the future of the competitiveness of the European Union itself, Europe, is very closely linked to free trade agreements. In the global economy, we are now witnessing global competition, which is the regional and interregional economic and trade integration of participants in global competition. If we look at the competition of these regional and interregional economic and trade integrations, then if we approach them only from the point of view of the agreements, we must say that Europe is lagging behind in this respect. Another question, of course, is the fact that Mr. Group leader's keynote speech or his expo also highlights the fact that there are dissenting opinions as to whether it is good or bad news that a person should be left behind in such a competition only in terms of the number of agreements. I also think it is right to debate the future of free trade agreements because, as you said well, the Free Trade Agreements are extremely important for the future of the Hungarian economy, because the Hungarian economy is an open and export-oriented economy. If we look at last year's figures, we see that there is no significant indicator in the external economy where the Hungarian economy would not have made a record. Last year we see the highest exports of all time, the highest foreign trade surplus of all time, and most of the investments of all time. The Hungarian economy is therefore an open, export-oriented economy, which I would like to underline - and I would like to underline - free trade agreements. At the same time, it is very important for us that the agreements negotiated comply with Hungarian interests. Here I could say a very simplistic sentence, which is practically the core of the government's position: if a free trade agreement is good for Hungary, we support that if a free trade agreement is not good for Hungary, we do not support it. When I say, Mr. Group leader, that it is good for Hungary, I understand it at least in a broad sense, as you were kind enough to say here in your exposé, so we are not talking solely about economic issues in this case, so I deliberately said that it is good for Hungary, and I did not say that it is good for the Hungarian economy. This is practically the core of the Hungarian government position. While free trade agreements can indeed contribute to the growth of the Hungarian economy, it is extremely important that these free trade agreements create real Hungarian jobs, creating jobs with the highest possible added value and thus strengthening the Hungarian economy. [[11.20]] At the same time, we consider it at least as important to maintain a system of high-quality EU and Hungarian national environmental, food safety, animal and plant health standards during the negotiation of a free trade agreement. That is why I think that, since these issues need to be dealt with in a complex way, the Hungarian Parliament should have an unavoidable role and weight in terms of free trade agreements that are of high national importance. We can therefore agree with the direction of the proposal for a decision, which has been put before us by the authors, and we also consider it extremely timely to discuss it here in Parliament with regard to the Canadian-European Free Trade Agreement. Because, of course, the faction leader is also right in that there must be red lines, and there are red lines that we are not willing to cross in any negotiation. Such a red line is, for example, Hungary's GMO-free. This is also required by the Fundamental Law. You can be sure, Mr. Group Leader, that the Hungarian Government will not present you with a question that would mean that the GMO exemption should be given up for one day in Hungary. With the support of the Parliament, our obligation under the Fundamental Law has been fixed, Hungary's GMO-freeness is a red line for us, and we will, of course, represent this in all European and other international debates. If I may, Mr Group Leader, I would like to say a few words about the specific agreements. The European Free Trade Agreement negotiated with Canada is now available to anyone, as it is a closed agreement that the European Commission is currently preparing for signature. I think there is agreement here in Parliament, although we have not yet heard the lead speakers of the Socialists and Jobbik, but we can prejudicate that there may be agreement in that regard, because this is a concluded agreement, and we know the text that this is an agreement of mixed competence, in Hungarian, the ratification of the Hungarian Parliament and the other national parliaments is necessary for the entry into force. This is clearly the position of the Hungarian government. I can now inform you that the European Union intends that the Canadian Prime Minister will be planning to sign during his autumn visit to Brussels, and that the proposal for adoption will be presented to the Council in June, and that this Council decision will be taken at some point in September, according to the Council agenda. Moreover, the European Member States, and therefore the European Council itself, expect the European Commission, as we ourselves, to present to the Council, in accordance with the original mandate and otherwise the negotiated text, a proposal which registers this proposal and this agreement as an agreement of mixed competence. The Foreign Ministers also adopted a resolution with the same content at the Council meeting on 13 May. As far as the Canadian-European Free Trade Agreement is concerned, I think it is correct that this is the most ambitious free trade agreement that the European Union has negotiated so far. A new dispute resolution mechanism has already been put in place, Mr. Group leader, and if I have been paying close attention, he has called the ISDS dispute resolution mechanism an offshore jurisdiction. Compared to this, the dispute settlement mechanism that is included in CETA can now be considered a step in the positive direction. I would also ask you to understand that, not only did I put it differently, but it can be interpreted as a positive step, since the ICS is now a new mechanism, practically creating a judicial system of permanent judges, which would have not only a first-degree, but also a second-degree case-law mechanism. Of course, we still need to study this, no one has seen how this works, no one has ever seen it, so, of course, it is necessary to examine this in detail. Ladies and gentlemen, If I may, I would also like to say a few words about TTIP, a free trade agreement negotiated between the United States and the European Union. The European Council has given the European Commission a mandate that is clearly about establishing an agreement with mixed powers. At the moment, as we see the process of negotiations, it seems clear to us - once again, at the current stage - that this will be a mixed agreement with mixed powers when it is concluded. Given the high levels of ambition, the declarations are ambitious, but the negotiations are still quite robust, let's just say, in a mediocre phase, as far as the agenda is concerned. So if this agreement is reached, then in this case we see that this will be a mixed agreement - I am talking about TTIP - and here also the government's firm position is that if this is to be a mixed agreement, then national parliamentary ratification will be required. The text is constantly evolving, the negotiations are still taking place, so it is not possible to say at present how good the TTIP agreement will be for Hungary's future and interests or how bad it will be. This can be said once the negotiations have been concluded. Ladies and gentlemen, What I can tell you, however, is that Hungarian-American economic cooperation is currently a success story, given that last year, the US was the second largest foreign investor in Hungary, our second most important trading partner outside the European Union, and our most important export market outside the European Union. As a result, we were able to realise a surplus of $1.7 billion in foreign trade in trade with the United States of America. Investments from the United States currently exceed $9 billion. In Hungary there are slightly more than 1600 American companies, and they maintain 100,000 jobs in Hungary. Since June 2014, our investment promotion agency has agreed on 20 US investments, and we are currently negotiating with exactly 20 US companies on various investments in Hungary, and these negotiations are also at different stages. We have ten strategic partners among US companies, they employ 33 790 people and have invested more than HUF 715 billion in Hungary. In February this year, the US-Hungary Business Council (US-Hungary Business Council), the business council of the United States and Hungary, was established by US companies with significant operations in Hungary, and Exim is in a refinancing relationship with 37 companies that export to the United States, and here we are talking essentially about export pre-financing schemes over two years. Dear Chief of Staff, Ladies and gentlemen, So to sum up, in the negotiations on a free trade agreement between the United States and the European Union on TTIP, I can tell you that the mandate given to the European Commission by the European Council is clear, our red lines are clear, our constitutional rules are clear, and the government position is clear that ratification by the Hungarian Parliament will be necessary, because we see this as a mixed agreement when it is established. Mr. Group Leader was also kind enough to talk about TiSA, which is practically between 23 WTO Member States, let us say with a nice Hungarian word, plurilateral, i.e. a very many-sided service, a draft trade agreement in practice. We now see, Mr Group Leader, that the level of ambition is below the Canadian-Europe Free Trade Agreement, but here, too, the Council negotiating directives are clear and have given the European Commission a mandate to negotiate an agreement of mixed competence, which once again assumes ratification by the national Parliament. [[11.30]] Ladies and gentlemen, We have also heard about general concerns about free trade agreements in the expozee. Here I would like to draw Parliament's attention to a few legal elements, first of all the fact that the Commission of the European Union does not have a negotiating mandate to negotiate agreements resulting in a reduction in the European Union's environmental, health, food safety and labour standards. Of course, the published Canada-Europe Free Trade Agreement is still being studied in detail, since the legal language control of the document has recently been completed, but at this stage I can tell you that we are paying great attention to the fact that in this agreement there should not be any moments that would undermine European standards in the areas described above. The mandate of the Council to negotiate an agreement between the United States and the European Union sets out this obligation for the European Commission, and when the summit of the European Union and the United States took place at the end of March 2014, this obligation was also set out in a joint declaration. And, of course, in the same way as the free trade agreements, we have also studied in detail the proposal for a parliamentary resolution tabled, although this was shorter. I can also tell you that the negotiations on free trade agreements are neither spread nor extend to the issue of human rights. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I can tell you that we can agree with the direction of the resolution proposal. In the specific area, I can say that, in the case of a free trade agreement which has already been concluded between Canada and the European Union, it is clear that the need for ratification by the national Parliament is necessary. With regard to the free trade agreement between the United States and the European Union, in the light of the current stage of negotiations and the Council mandate, we see the need for ratification by the national Parliament; and in the case of the TiSA Agreement, as we are talking about even a lower level of ambition, the process is also pointing towards parliamentary ratification on the basis of the Council negotiating mandate. The question itself is whether the TTIP may or may not be good for Hungary; I suggest that we come back to this issue in detail when the agreement is concluded, and when the agreed texts are fully at our disposal, we know about this issue, and I think that we should not only debate it with responsibility, because we can now, but also have a responsible opinion. Thank you again, Mr Group leader, for being kind enough to raise this question in the Parliament, and thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-24-46	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Richard Hörcsik, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-05-24-47	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Dear fellow Members, As we have heard, my fellow Member András Schiffer's proposal for a resolution has been most inspired by the uncertainties and fears surrounding the TTIP, the Free Trade Agreement between the European Union and the US, which has been under negotiation since 2013. I understand your fear. Better safe than sorry - says the Hungarian proverb. For this reason, the re-arrangement of this issue meets again and again in Parliament, as we have heard from the Minister, with the intention of the government and the Fidesz faction; we have nothing to hide. In this case, too, I believe that transparency is extremely important to pour clean water on the basis of the information we have at our disposal. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, because TTIP is a very serious issue in which it is also essential to involve national parliaments and to inform them accordingly. For this reason, since 2014, the Committee on European Affairs has regularly, at least every six months, put the subject of TTIP negotiations on the agenda, where István Mikola, the competent State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, informed and informs the members of the committee and the public. Last February - I remind my fellow Members - we discussed the subject at the Parliament on debate day, where, for example, EU Commissioner Tibor Navracsics spoke. Ladies and gentlemen, It has so-called exclusive competence with regard to the common commercial policy of the European Union. This has already been the case under the Treaty of Rome and the Treaty of Lisbon in force. However, exclusivity applies only to agreements whose subject-matter is limited to trade policy. In the case of agreements falling within exclusive competence, only the Council and the European Parliament will participate in the ratification process on the part of the European Union. According to point 1 of the proposal for a decision before us, inter alia, the transatlantic trade and investment agreement between the EU-US will have to be considered as a mixed agreement. There's no argument between us. However, I stress that there is no agreement yet, but there are only negotiations, which are at the same time very ambitious, since the creation of a new EU-US economic area with 800 million people, which accounts for almost half of the world's economic performance, is at stake. Ladies and gentlemen, The issue of the joint agreement on TTIP has not been raised for the first time. At regular meetings of the national parliaments of the EU Member States, it is almost constantly on the agenda, and, if I remember correctly, as early as the summer of 2014, at the so-called COSAC meeting of the European Parliamentary Committees on EU Affairs in the EU Member States, we delivered a joint opinion to the European Commission on a total of 20 Member States' parliaments and chamber chairmen, including myself, through a so-called political dialogue. Well, in this opinion, we expressed the belief that the 20 national parliaments should consider the resulting EU-US agreement to be a so-called mixed agreement, because many of its provisions, as we have heard from the Minister, also concern issues falling within the competence of the Member States. What is certain for now, unlike CETA, which is the EU-Canada free trade agreement that has actually been concluded, is that in the case of TTIP we can only talk about negotiations. These negotiations started in July 2013, and we have been through the 13 negotiating rounds so far. The bilateral negotiations cover between 25 and 30 areas, among which, according to our information, there are 17 so-called consolidated texts, which include the EU and the United States' positions and the common basis on which negotiations can begin. On the part of the EU, the European Commission is leading negotiations, which Hungary does not urge to conclude; we are more interested, as the Minister said, in establishing a good agreement. And I agree, for example, with what was said in a presentation by my fellow chairman, Zsolt Németh, who said that a bad TTIP is worse than if there were no TTIP. We are clearly interested in creating a good TTIP for us. Ladies and gentlemen, The question of the public is raised in relation to the negotiations - it cannot be avoided either. Even if the negotiations and results are not entirely secret, unfortunately we see that neither Washington nor Brussels are really seeking real transparency so that their citizens can understand and know what is going on. In fact, I have to say that it is no coincidence that European citizens are concerned that they think something is going on above their heads that they are afraid of. [[11.40]] I don't think that can be tolerated in a democracy. Both negotiators need to understand if they really want to be a successful TTIP, that the adoption of citizens and the approval or support of national parliaments are needed. It is also an open point on TTIP, as has been said, in dispute resolution. It was also an open issue on previous ideas, and fortunately it was removed from the negotiating table with regard to the investor state dispute resolution mechanism, but in September 2015 the European Commission made a new proposal, namely the creation of a so-called investment court. This proposal, as the Minister mentioned, must be examined in order to see exactly where and how it would deal with possible disputes. However, we cannot in any way allow independent Hungarian courts to replace their powers with some kind of international organisation that is far from us. Ladies and gentlemen, So far, I believe that Parliament has taken its part in monitoring the negotiations, so that we can identify precisely the sensitive elements of the negotiations, as the Minister said, the red lines, whether they are food safety or the need to preserve GMOs. Of course, Hungarian people do not ask for food, plants, animals mixed in labs, and the citizens of many other European countries do not want this either. Therefore, I believe that it is our democratic duty not to give in to multinational companies in this area, as my fellow Member Schiffer has said, which want to enforce this at all costs, even against the will of citizens. However, one thing I think I need to highlight clearly. The objective of removing barriers to trade in free trade agreements does not take precedence over maintaining levels of protection reflecting central considerations. In other words, even in the CETA agreement with Canada, the EU did not commit itself to reducing its food safety standards. Accordingly, products which do not comply with EU standards, such as hormone-treated beef or chlor-disinsulated poultry, unauthorised GMO seed, cannot be placed on the Union market as a result of the agreement. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, when discussing these issues, we must also see that Hungary is an open economy, an export-oriented economy, as the Minister mentioned. For us, there is no realistic alternative to being involved in international economic cooperation, and we can even benefit from a good free trade agreement. But there is no alternative to the Hungarian Parliament not voting on what is good for the Hungarian people and what is not. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the principles or direction of the proposal for a decision are eligible. Its subject is, of course, not only TTIP, but also CETA, so the EU-Canada Free Trade Convention, which, at the same time, is an international treaty that has been concluded and negotiated, which, in my opinion, cannot intervene in the process here by Member State parliaments, and cannot form it in substance. The motion also includes the issue of the Agreement on Trade in Services, i.e. the negotiation of TiSA, where a completely new system of consideration is the consistency with the relevant WTO rules of the World Trade Organisation. Ladies and gentlemen, Overall, the proposal for a decision therefore seeks to address three issues on a different subject and at a negotiating stage in a similar manner, which, in its present form, I believe, requires some amendments, which our committee will naturally take on. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-24-48	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group, is coming to a speech. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-05-24-49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, let me thank András Schiffer for bringing this decision to the House, because we are really talking about an issue that can determine the future of Hungary in the long term. In addition, these effects may have irreversible effects. So I think it is certainly useful that, if for no other reason, we can talk about these issues in the form of such a decision. And it is true, as has been mentioned several times here by the speakers before me, that this draft resolution is not only about what is contained in it, but, of course, there are also the remaining sentences that apply to TTIP, which are certainly also applicable to TTIP. Therefore, perhaps most of the debate or most of the comments have been more concerned with this. It is no coincidence, since there is a debate throughout Europe about this free trade agreement, a trial and a versus argument. And what I have observed, or what I have learned from the experiences and information that I have read, in many places in Hungary, is that this free trade agreement is approached from such an ideological point of view, and, in fact, it is an ideological question from a pragmatic question, an economic issue. But I think this agreement is more about interests than values. To be clear, it is not a good discourse, which is about the fact that the person who already supports the TTIP Treaty at this stage is the true Atlantist and is committed to Atlantic integration; who may be expressing criticism, and who is certainly taking a stand against these values. There have been Hungarian parties, the liberals, who have done this in the last few days. I disagree with that position. I think that this issue should be clearly and exclusively examined and defined on the basis of Hungarian national, economic and social interests, and not created a value dispute, because then we can get lost in a forest, and we will not find the right direction for Hungary, for the Hungarian economy, for the Hungarian people. I've missed a little bit of this debate, and perhaps for that reason, let me bring you a few topics that may be interesting and worth talking about beyond. My fellow Member Hörcsik has said that his committee has been consulted on this several times. I think we should talk about the issues that are really dangerous or exciting, however we can put it, for Hungary. This is the issue of agriculture, for example, because in this area there is perhaps the greatest risk that Hungary could be put at a competitive disadvantage with this agreement. I am not only talking about GMOs, because the Minister has clarified and clarified it at the level of information, but rather about the situation in which Hungarian farmers may be in, not to mention, of course, other farmers working in the European Union. But the food industry is the same, the role and place of the Hungarian SME sector. Many people here have also said in the debate that Hungary is an open market economy, which is export-oriented. This is true, but this carries not only opportunities but also dangers for the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises sector. Of course, a free trade agreement can bring many opportunities, and here I think the conditional mode is very important - this is something that the Minister stressed, if I understand correctly - but at the same time it can pose a great deal of danger to the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprise sector. If they are not sufficiently prepared, if these companies are not sufficiently competitive, then not only will they have an advantage but will have a disadvantage in this agreement. Therefore, it may not be a mistake to say that, based on this information, it can be said that, in its present state, this agreement is good for the greats and the strong, but for those who are not great and not strong, there is a disadvantage to this agreement, or at present the stage or condition of this agreement that we can read from the information we have so far. It is also quite clear that, at the moment, it may not even be an exaggeration to say that, for the time being, this agreement is in the interest of the United States of America's economy rather than of the European Union's economic interests. Therefore, it is quite certain that there is still a point in balancing and achieving further results in the course of the negotiations, so that a win-win, a win-win situation can emerge in connection with this convention. [[11.50]] There was also the need for parliamentary ratification. I must admit, I do not understand the debate or the sentence spoken by the Minister here whether it is mandatory or not binding. I think that Hungary will decide what subject it is debating in Parliament, so I think that it is possible to bring such a rule or such a trade agreement to Parliament even if there is no international requirement for Hungary to do so. I would therefore recommend to the attention of the government, whether this is now a mixed rule or not, that I think it is only the right behaviour if the Hungarian Parliament has the opportunity to conclude such a regulation or convention of such importance, and the Hungarian Parliament must, of course, be empowered to conclude such an agreement. The other is very important, which my fellow Member Hörcsik has already referred to, which is a question of transparency. It's a mixed experience. When the negotiations started, I myself struggled a little with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to get some preparatory documents and look into them. I did not understand exactly why it was not possible to see all the preparatory documents as Members of Parliament, especially if this meant public studies. Then, in this respect, the position of the State Department's new leadership changed, and after that, it was possible to obtain these materials a little more smoothly. I would like to propose to the Government in any way that transparency can help a great deal to ensure that policy, economic operators, trade unions and civil society organisations are able to see exactly where these negotiations are going. The Minister spoke about these red lines, and I think it is right in this respect that the government will continue these negotiations within a certain framework. There is only one thing better: if everyone knows, sees and understands just how these red lines evolve, what they touch, what they do not touch, and what the government achieves. I think it's useful to avoid the appearance of anyone wanting to hide anything. Therefore, I would suggest to the Minister that there should be a debate on this not only in the European Union committee, but also in Parliament on the state of the negotiations on the part of the government, because no matter how much all Members may go to a committee meeting, we usually go to committee meetings where we belong or where we participate as members, so I will not participate in the work of the European Union committee myself. So if, for example, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Agriculture could be informed about this, or, where appropriate, in plenary, we could talk about these issues on a regular basis here in Parliament, I think that the confidence index would also increase and perhaps the credibility of this negotiation process would be strengthened. To say not only things that may not cause so much hostility from those involved in the debate, let me say, however, as an opposition representative, that today the Foreign Minister had another comfortable position, because he could say that today these negotiations are still in a position to support him when he is good at the end, if he is not good, then we will not support him. This is not a very complicated saying, and it also means a comfortable position today, but I would like to warn the Minister of Foreign Affairs that Fidesz politicians are communicating on this issue. We have already heard from the Prime Minister from you how pleased the US Ambassador, both the Foreign Minister and the Prime Minister, wanted to force the TTIP Treaty on Hungary, and then, I think, perhaps, the American ambassador's speech at the meeting of AmCham, was about how pleased the US Ambassador was to support and defend both the TTIP Treaty, but my fellow Member Zsolt Hörcsik, who said that he was committed to the conclusion of the TTIP, and János Lázár signed the type of petition that was initiated against it in the European Union, and even in the recent statements, Antal Rogán wanted to protect Hungary from multinational capital in many cases, which TTIP is a symbol of Hungary. I just wanted to say or to draw attention to the fact that if only this current foreign minister's expo had been performed, it would certainly be a clear line for the government, but earlier there were statements that suggesting that this clean water, which Richard Hörcsik was talking about, is quite confusing for the time being. It would therefore be worth clarifying who will then represent which position and on what basis the Hungarian Government will act in the near future, as this would certainly be essential to clarify the position and to represent the Hungarian interest. Another thought I wanted to put to your attention, and this is not necessarily the task of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, and it would certainly also be the task of Minister Mihály Varga. If we assume that this agreement can lead to a good agreement, a good free trade agreement that serves the interests of Hungarian agriculture, the Hungarian SME sector, the Hungarian industry, and the European Union, it also offers equal opportunities for market access and the various security regulations, I think it would be worth developing a programme for the Hungarian economy, the potentially winning sectors of the Hungarian economy, which is a kind of economic development or a kind of preparation for this agreement, because these Hungarian companies can make use of this opportunity if they are prepared to do so. This certainly makes sense for Hungarian state involvement and, where appropriate, for resource allocation. So in Hungarian, in the sectors that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has commissioned, where there is a potential chance and opportunity for Hungarian companies to benefit, it would certainly be worth allocating resources to strengthen their preparedness, competitiveness, and on the other hand, economic sectors, companies where this agreement is more dangerous, should also be allocated resources to help and support their preparedness and thus their protection. So, overall, I can say that it is a good thing that this resolution came before the Parliament. I can also imagine that it is possible to fine-tune it on a few sentences or even on a justification, even in the form of amendments. But basically, I think the direction is that the Hungarian national economic interest should not be overwritten on the basis of any other arguments that do not belong to it and, where appropriate, in another dimension, it must be quite right, so the Hungarian Socialist Party's faction will certainly consider the support for this resolution. We will see what amendments are being tabled by Fidesz. For my part, in this respect, I think that it is worth knocking down a stake like this here in Parliament, so that the government is warned of where the boundaries between which these negotiations are worth conducting are. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Once again, let me ask the government, if possible, not to use the double speech on this subject, but to negotiate within the government, and not to sign a petition to the contrary, if the government has not yet decided whether or not to support this issue, and for the time being, Antal Rogán should not defend Hungarian sovereignty from something that does not need to be protected from, because this agreement does not exist to protect Hungary. So let me thank Andra Schiffer once again for bringing this decision in here, and we will certainly talk about these issues at the next time. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-05-24-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group, Mr Mátyás Firtl, is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-24-51	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, H/9798 on requirements for trade and investment agreements concluded by the European Union with third countries The proposal for a resolution, as President Hörcsik has already said, has triggered several debates in our committee. He has already discussed these in detail in the main speakers, so in my speech I would like to address only a few essential issues which are extremely important for Hungary, and it is important for Hungary to conclude trade and investment agreements with the European Union and Canada, but also with third countries in general. This is the most important thing that has been said here many times, GMO-free. Article XX of the Fundamental Law of Hungary This article gives good support to concerns about GMO non-compliance: everyone has a right to physical and mental health. Paragraph (2):. Hungary shall promote the enforcement of the law under paragraph 1 by means of a genetically modified organism-free agriculture, the provision of access to healthy food and drinking water, the organisation of occupational protection and health care, the promotion of sport and regular exercise, and the protection of the environment. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[12.00]] As a result of a negotiation process of more than four years, in January 2015, an amendment of EU legislation allowing Member States to prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified plants. This directive was transposed into the Hungarian legal order by the Act adopted by the Parliament in May 2015. Following the entry into force of the Act, Hungary may prohibit the cultivation of GMOs not only on grounds of environmental and health risks but also on grounds of social and economic impacts. Our country plays a leading role in banning the cultivation of genetically modified plants in Europe: the first of the EU's directives and the EU's countries has been introduced into our domestic legal order, so we have used the possibility of banning it for the first time. With this, we have taken another important step to preserve GMO-free Hungarian agriculture. But I think it is extremely important that the precautionary principle should be applied to all technologies that do not have sufficient data on their impact. A few days ago, an analysis of the effects of GMOs was published by the American Academy of Sciences, which was also reported by the Hungarian and foreign press. The study refers in several places to uncertainties and the emergence of unexpected effects. It notes that the OECD animal testing methods currently used are not sufficiently suitable to detect differences. The length of the prescribed tests is only 90 days, which is not enough to express chronic effects. Hungary also objected to this during the EU negotiations. The authors of the study urge the development of appropriate testing methods to measure side effects. Summarizing data from the US field experiments, it was found that the genetically modified technology did not significantly increase the yield of maize, cotton or soya compared to traditional cultivation. It is of particular interest that EU rules on human health, animal and plant health, food safety, animal welfare, consumer and environmental protection are maintained and not weakened. There has been a discussion of ratification. According to the Government's Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, on the basis of the current state of the negotiations, these agreements include elements falling within the competence of the EU and the Member States. Thus, the national parliaments of the EU Member States shall, mutatis mutandis, adopt the agreements concerned in the ratification procedure in accordance with their respective constitutional rules. As far as dispute resolution is concerned, in my opinion and in our opinion it should be achieved as a minimum requirement during the negotiations - not by accident, I have dealt with genetic modification so much here - that the most sensitive areas that affect Hungary in particular in the fields of agriculture, human, plant and animal health and environmental protection or consumer protection and food safety should not go to a court-martial stage, because it may indeed be the case that the court will decide, however much we believe that this area is completely protected. As far as market access is concerned: like all trade agreements, the trade and investment agreements under discussion are beneficial to our country if they help Hungarian businesses access to the market, bring trade rules into line, remove non-tariff barriers to trade and technical barriers to trade. We respectfully ask the government to take all the necessary steps during the negotiations to meet the conditions expected from the above Hungarian side, thereby making the trade and investment agreement more beneficial to the Hungarian interest. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. It's a rare applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-05-24-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will continue with the keynote speeches. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Márton Gyöngyösi. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-05-24-53	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The first word is also to thank me for the LMP fraction, who presented the proposal for a resolution here to the House, and for everyone who supported the inclusion of this proposal for a resolution and supported the inclusion on the agenda. It is a real celebration, even if it is rare, like the leap year, that in the system of national cooperation, pro-government representatives support an opposition proposal or support a resolution proposal. We hope that this is not a change of strategy on the part of Fidesz after the earlier double speech and smokescreen, on the basis of which we are now trying to digest the commercial treaty that would in essence completely destroy our society. We have had a bad experience over the last 25 years in the system of change in the system of pact politics in relation to the treaties that are concluded within the framework of our nation and the various Euroatlantic organisations and aspirations, we have experienced this kind of double speech everywhere and that rhetoric and action really exist in a kind of disharmony and are in constant disharmony. We very much hope that this supportive attitude that we are experiencing here is a real change of direction on your part and are determined to protect Hungary from the 21st century. One of the most threatening treaties of the century, which is a fundamental threat to the existence of nation states. A year ago, on the TTIP, we had a debate here, from which we were familiar with the positions of the various parties, and you were able to get to know Jobbik's position and position on this issue. What is a special topicality in this proposal for a resolution, which my fellow Member Schiffer specifically mentioned, is the issue of ratification of CETA, the treaty concluded between the European Union and Canada and the treaty already concluded, even as the forerunner of TTIP. This issue directly affects our national sovereignty, the question is whether and how this treaty can be approved. This treaty sets a precedent both in content and in procedural terms, as it concerns our national sovereignty, and the question arises of who will ratify a treaty that will affect our nation, region, continent and the future of our entire civilization and planet in the long term and decisively. Whatever anyone thinks about free trade, we must agree that only a national parliament can decide on issues directly affecting our nation, in this case the parliament of the Hungarian nation. The government, which may directly interfere with the decision-making of the European Union, must take this position and stand on the side of national sovereignty and not enter into any pact in the negotiation of such a trade treaty. The question is given, and the question arises: are we talking about a mixed or a European Union Treaty, that is to say, do we need the approval of national parliaments in addition to the European Parliament? [[12.10]] We believe that by adopting this proposal for a resolution, we can force the Hungarian Government and perhaps Brussels to decide on this issue. However, the problem with CETA is even greater, since some experts draw attention to whether or not national parliaments ratify this Treaty, within the meaning of the temporary entry into force clause contained in the CETA text, on the basis of the CETA contract, which includes the dispute settlement mechanism between the State and investors, they can sue the Hungarian Government through this dispute settlement mechanism for three years and force the Hungarian State to compensate before an arbitration court. And the extent of the problem on the basis of the contract between Canada and the European Union, nothing shows better than the fact that in Canada companies that sell GMOs that we rightly fear in TTIP have subsidiaries in Canada and that, for example, Canada has already authorised the sale of genetically modified foods. For example, Canada has recently authorised the sale of genetically modified salmon in Canada, which is likely to appear on the EU market after ratification of the CETA Treaty, thereby breaking the way for all other foods that are completely harmful to human consumption. Why is it important for us Hungarians to take action against the treaty? So why is this particularly dangerous for Hungarian society and Hungary? In Hungary, we believe that in the last 25 years, Hungary will be colonized in two steps, and Hungary will be destroyed. The first phase began 25 years ago when we started negotiations on Euroatlantic integration, and not the start of negotiations itself is a mistake, but the strategy for catching up and integration that Hungary has set itself. So when we talk about the dilemma of good or bad, or whether it is in Hungarian national interest to sign or reject TTIP and these commercial contracts, I believe that we will lead this debate to a false dilemma or a false track. Because 25 years ago Hungary was under pressure or under the influence of some kind of pact - I don't know that, but - it certainly chose the wrong direction as a strategy for development and catching up. Hungary's export-oriented economic policy has been said here. Yes, but the majority of Hungary's exports are made by industrial companies established in Hungary with foreign capital. Therefore, regardless of whether Hungary's exports are increasing to the advantage of domestic, foreign-owned industrial facilities, and thus employment or some statistics may increase in Hungary, if any, or GDP, this is nevertheless a false dilemma, because Hungary may be at a disadvantage by concluding such a trade contract, and I am convinced that, yes, it is to its disadvantage, it is not worth discussing this issue solely in terms of numbers. In the Hungarian economy following the path of privatisation, decentralisation and liberalisation, this is unfortunately a false dilemma. Hungary must focus on its comparative advantage in defining its economic strategy and development strategy, which must be the production and distribution of excellent, non-chemical and non-chemical food. This is a Hungarian comparative advantage, nothing else. The second phase, in the colonialization of Hungary, I believe, would be completed by concluding this and similar trade agreements. This would mean the sacrifice of the entire agricultural sector at European level, not only at home but also at regional and domestic level, as has already been a precedent. After all, you may remember that when the European Union concluded a free trade agreement with Mercosur, an economic organization bringing together the South American states, in which it was negotiated that, if the Mercosur Member States grant tariff preferences for industrial products from Europe, the European Union will open its door to food products from Latin American countries, Mercosur countries and give them similar favourable tariffs and preferences. Who benefitted from that agreement? Countries interested in European industrial exports. And who were his losers? Countries which are essentially engaged in agricultural production and food production. So this EU Mercosur Convention should also be a warning signal when we negotiate on TTIP or on CETA. It has already been said here, so I do not want to go into it in detail, and we have already said our position on the different standards set out in TTIP, CETA and various trade agreements which pose a threat to our country and our continent, which would constitute a complete termination of the precautionary principle, and would introduce a risk-based approach in Hungary and throughout our continent on the basis of which products can be marketed in Hungary until proven that they are harmful to human organisation, the environment and nature. So in this sense, we must defend the precautionary principle and not trust a partner that has boycotted the ratification of both the Kyoto and Stockholm and Basel Conventions. So you must not sit down with a country - no matter what the conditions are - that has boycotted and negliged basic international treaties. In the European Union, not only in the European Union, but also in the United States of America, a number of studies have come to light in recent years that demonstrate that this trade treaty will in each case be the victim of the European Union, especially the European Union in the field of agriculture, and that the United States of America will benefit from it. In a recent newspaper in Hungary, a lengthy article on the substance of these studies shows how European agriculture will be a victim of this free trade agreement in proportion to GDP, how much the European beef production, pig sector performance, poultry sector performance, seed performance and competitiveness will fall, as it cannot be priced against cultivation and production in the USA using GMOs, using hormone treatment industrially and using various technologies. We have already mentioned the dispute resolution mechanism. The sovereignty of the judiciary cannot be allowed to be violated by the adoption of free trade agreements. We know that in these free trade agreements, there is a dispute settlement mechanism that in any case leads a State to compensation in the event that its profit interests are damaged. We know the example of how a French large company was able to sue Egypt successfully just because it introduced the minimum wage. [[12.20]] We remember how a large tobacco company was able to sue Australia successfully for compensation because it conducted an anti-smoking campaign for the health of its constituents and society. As long as there are traces of such a dispute settlement mechanism in a commercial contract, the Hungarian Government and the Hungarian Parliament must focus all their efforts on rejecting this trade agreement. There were also fears about transparency. The shame of democracy is that the West, which advertises transparency 24 hours a day, is thus negotiating these trade agreements without full transparency. That's the pinnacle of cynicism [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] - I ask Mr President for a half minute to finish a thought process - that in Europe, under the approval of the United States, some of the selected people can look through those trade agreements in reading or secret rooms, the thousands of pages of documents that have a decisive impact on their fate. It's unacceptable! We believe that the Hungarian government, the Hungarian Parliament, must act against this. The adoption of this proposal for a decision is the minimum and only the first step on this path. It is necessary to go through this path consistently and the contract must be rejected. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-24-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck. Here you go.
u2016-05-24-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Before talking specifically about CETA and TTIP, I would like to react very briefly to what was said in the speech by Minister Szijjártó. I think it is a very good time to talk not only about the two conventions in particular, but also about the importance of free trade agreements at all. Minister has voted in favour of the importance of free trade agreements, and he has, of course, stressed the red line of the government in relation to specific agreements. Ladies and gentlemen, We think we need to understand the world a lot better today. Today's free trade agreements are no longer about what the free trade agreements of the last century are. It is no coincidence that people are seeing more and more of the negatives of today's free trade agreements, and it is no accident that more and more masses are moving against free trade agreements. I would just like to remind you that when information about TTIP was leaked, civil society organisations started collecting signatures to stop TTIP from preparing this free trade agreement, and over a million signatures were collected in this context in a few months. There have been several demonstrations against free trade agreements involving tens of thousands of people. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that more and more people are also experiencing, experiencing how the world is breaking up, and this fragmentation depends on many factors, that these processes are linked, and that we need to see these relationships clearly. I recently spoke before the agenda on TTIP here in Parliament about Oxfam, an international organization, reporting that today 62 people in the world have 3.5 billion assets, i.e. exactly the same wealth, and since 2010, the assets of these 62 people have increased by more than 40 percent. What is more, if there are no mechanisms to ensure this fragmentation in our world, because the main objectives of all agreements are to reduce poverty, to solve environmental problems, and yet the world is falling down and falling apart. It is no coincidence that the LMP has taken the view in relation to free trade agreements that this is not an option in today's form, since free trade agreements ensure that capital takes everything. In particular, in relation to our problems with CETA and TTIP, it is known that the Free Trade Agreement between Canada and the European Union was announced on 26 September 2014, which was also found to have been established secretly, in complete silence, behind people's backs. Only a very few people in Hungary consider this Free Trade Convention to be an important issue of debate, despite the fact that their expected impact on economic and social structures will be extremely significant. The EU-Canada trade agreement, which is considered to be TTIP's little brother, is hardly mentioned in the domestic press, even though it is as dangerous as TTIP. This agreement is also part of an investor-state dispute resolution mechanism which could pave the way for corporate litigation against Canada, the EU and individual EU Member States and completely undermine government efforts to protect citizens and the environment. As we already know, the investor-state dispute resolution mechanism gives foreign companies the opportunity to sue the country in private courts, offshore courts, for measures to protect the health of citizens or the environment, which they consider to reduce the expected profits of companies. Through this mechanism, multinationals can prevent governments from acting in the public interest, on the one hand, directly when a company sues a state and, on the other hand, indirectly by the State's fear of legal action. Overall, investors have already acted against a number of laws protecting public health, such as laws prohibiting smoking, or bans on toxic substances and mining, which require an assessment of environmental impacts, or contain regulations on hazardous waste, tax measures and fiscal policy. A similar FTA with the United States is one of the EU's priorities. In view of this, CETA is also an important step. So far, in addition to the LMP, several international organisations have expressed serious concerns about TTIP and CETA and, as I mentioned, civil society. They lack transparency in the conciliation process and fear that rules in the fields of workers' rights, consumer and environmental standards, culture and public supply will be violated, and that regulations for the protection of investors will limit the rule of law and principles. We consider it important to point out that North American companies are extremely active and successful in initiating dispute settlement procedures. The most prominent such lawsuit, lost by the Hungarian State, was the earnings of the Canadian Airport Development Corporation. The State unlawfully recovered the airport from the investor, which led Hungary to pay 74 million dollars in excess of the cost of the lawsuit. For LMP, as has been said many times, the ban on GMOs is of particular importance. If the free trade agreement between the EU and Canada were to enter into force temporarily, Canadian companies, including Monsanto's subsidiary there, could sue individual EU Member States even if they did not ratify the agreement. One of the main problems is that CETA is an integral part of the investor-state dispute resolution mechanism, which would allow genetic engineering companies with Canadian subsidiaries to sue our country for the prohibition of the cultivation of genetically modified maize. Another problem is that the agreement between the EU and Canada has the following common objective: to minimise the negative effects on trade of biotech products legislation. This translates into putting commercial interests ahead of food safety, health protection and environmental protection. [[12.30]] The draft text of the CETA and the leaked substances related to the TTIP, as well as statements by the US Government, as well as by genetic engineering companies and their allies, show that the United States and Canada are seeking to take over the US regulatory system that is more appropriate to the interests of giant companies than to the precautionary principle in the authorisation process, thereby unleashing serious food safety and environmental risks on Europe by pushing profits forward. It is no coincidence that the European Commission continued negotiations on TTIP in such a secret way that the Members of the European Parliament can only look into the drafts after signing a statement of confidentiality, giving all their personal belongings in a shadowed room. They shall not take notes, copy or disclose any relevant information about what they have seen. The green MEPs who have so far been granted access to this shrine of European values have only been able to say about the convention that it is not about citizens, but about multinational companies. The above conventions are therefore much more than about freedom of trade. More than everyone has already calculated, there will be a treaty that makes stronger countries stronger and weaker countries weaker. It is an attack on democratic standards, the rule of law and equality before the law. The condition that allows legal action to be taken against a country in the framework of a convention, without it being ratified, disregards representative democracy and citizen participation. Ladies and gentlemen, Negotiations on CETA are considered to be concluded and may therefore provide the framework for the TTIP Treaty. What is apparent today from these conventions is that the Commission does not only favor the public, but also the democratic decision-making process of the Union. In addition, in 2014, the EU Ambassador to Canada also stated to the Canadian press that the Convention would enter into force temporarily if the European Parliament had given its consent. The fact that the CETA is concerned at all that a dispute settlement mechanism applies retroactively to investments that took place prior to the adoption of the Convention constitutes a mockery of an important rule of law for the markets as well. This shows that the idea that democracy can only be fully completed if the movement of capital is limited as much as possible is not true, and even if it has become a dogma contrary to common sense. The CETA Convention may seem irrelevant to TTIP, since Canada is a low population country. Nevertheless, this convention is a fundamental attack on the rule of law, Hungary's self-determination and our planet for two reasons. One of these reasons is that Canada is rich in tarland oil and is looking for markets for it. The EU is perfectly capable of doing so because of its energy diversification policy. At the same time, because of the EU's strict climate policy requirements, it has not allowed the import of such a dangerous energy carrier. CETA now has a market opportunity, which is one of the main objectives of the lobbyists besides CETA. This is also contrary to the EU's commitment to reduce CO2 emissions from transport by 6 percent at the previous Copenhagen climate conference. The fact that earlier climate protection commitments are overwritten by the various free trade agreements also makes it difficult for the agreements of the Paris Climate Summit to be effective. Furthermore, CETA applies only to Canada, and although that is true, it may open the door wide for all major multinational companies in the world to sue governments. According to CETA's text, any company with significant business activity in Canada can benefit from ISDS, so it can sue the State for non-profit. We therefore believe that it is necessary for the government to take a firm stand so that proposals that undermine the current level of environmental protection and food safety, directly or indirectly, and proposals that prevent the development of environmental legislation, and the investor-state dispute resolution mechanism, are not included in the EU's free trade agreements. We have been calling for a longer period of time for EU Member States rejecting the use of genetically modified organisms in agriculture to work together against the threat to GMO-free Europe. As the Convention between Canada and the EU, which is a model for TTIP, contains similar points and is an integral part of the investor-state dispute resolution mechanism, we are asking Hungary not to ratify this convention and the Government is calling for the same at least among the EU Member States that reject the use of genetically modified organisms in agriculture. Thank you for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of LMP and Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-24-56	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Mr András Schiffer, the rapporteur, asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2016-05-24-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to respond to the keynote speeches and to what the Minister has said. Of course, before that, I would also like to thank you for allowing the majority of Parliament to negotiate this proposal for a resolution. First of all, I would like to start with what my fellow Member, Mr Schmuck, was talking about. So the situation, which the Hungarian Nation also wrote a week ago, is quite precisely that in a dark secret room in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, these documents can be viewed secretly so that there is no equipment suitable for recording images with the individual, let us say, quite simply humiliating Hungary, humiliating for the Hungarian people. This regulation is made by the government of a country that lectures the world on corruption and transparency. The fact is that corruption begins when giant companies can capture decision-makers and governments. That's what we should be talking about. Dear Parliament, I would like to refer, on the one hand, to what my colleague from Gyöngyösi said that CETA, the Canadian Convention, is a test plant. What's in the Canadian agreement today, no doubt, will be in the TTIP. And it's in the Canadian agreement to say good-bye to the precautionary principle. On the basis of the precautionary principle, it is not possible to place on the market products the non-harm-free nature of which is unclear. In comparison, the Canadian Convention is precisely about the fact that a procedure or product can only be banned if there is scientific evidence that it is harmful. A risk-based approach is opposed to the current precautionary principle applied by Hungary and the European Union as a whole. And who will provide these scientific evidences? Of course, the various research institutes funded by global food terrorism companies. That's in CETA today. So you shouldn't be talking crap. The ratification of CETA is a threat to Hungary and to Europe as a whole. What is included in this is a clear solution to the GMO exemption. What's in CETA means there's a free field ahead of TTIP. And yes, the temporary entry into force is the newfounding itself. In the previous centuries, the novelty is different from what we have seen in the past, because the interest in the re-circulation is basically not in other nation states, but in various giant companies. Who has ever heard of sovereign countries being forced to put into effect rules that they themselves have not yet adopted? What kind of world do we live in? ! In a convention where there is a temporary entry into force, so that Hungary can be sued for serious millions of dollars for the application of a convention that Hungary has not otherwise accepted, it has rejected and violates the self-determination of Hungary. And if such a treaty is being negotiated, Hungary must stand up from the negotiating table and the Hungarian Prime Minister must state that Hungary will raise a veto. The fact that the United States of America is not part of the most important chemicals regulation, climate agreements or the ILO conventions is also not irrelevant, is it not? [[12.40]] This is why, for example, when the American company Myers moved its seat to Canada, Canada that signed the Basel Convention on hazardous waste in 1989 and wanted to apply it to Myers, Myers then sued the Canadian Government for a price of $6 million because it dared to apply the Basel Convention on hazardous waste. We know the Századvég study, which was commissioned by the government, divided into various agricultural sectors. It has clearly shown that there is virtually only one Hungarian agricultural sector that can be a winner, but the Századvég study of two years ago also warns that Hungarian agricultural products can be excluded from existing European markets. My fellow Member of Gyöngyösi mentions this famous Egyptian lawsuit, but we can also talk about the fact that Slovakia, after the fall of the neoliberal course, tried to reverse the completely absurd process of privatization of health insurance, which was also used in Hungary to try to put health insurance on the market - when the Fico government tried to recover it, a Dutch company sued Slovakia. So let's consider that once we get into a street like this, there's no turning back. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: That's right!]] Today Slovakia is struggling to take back health care, health insurance, into community hands. Yes, we also need to talk about the fact that when anyone talks about Hungarian exports and the interests of Hungarian exports, it is also important to see that Hungarian exports contain imports to a decisive extent, and that the comparative advantage of the Hungarian national economy can indeed be in intellectual performance, not least from the benefits of strict chemical regulation and strict food safety rules. What my fellow Member Mesterházy said about the double speech, he is absolutely right. So we know precisely, at least I am not forgetful, which led the Hungarian government to sweep the ambassador's praise with the Prime Minister. Obviously, I'm happy with the way the Secretary of State has just spoken. However, I have doubts about the popularity of this Fidesen. However, my fellow Member Mesterházy also said that this is not a value dispute. Yes, you can. Yes, you can. There is a difference in world view between ecopolitics and technocratic politics. In our view, every political debate, every parliamentary debate, is a value dispute. And if there is something on the globe today, it is not exactly what Hungarian politics has spent the last 25 years with. In Hungary, the so-called value debate after the change of regime was about fascistism and communism. Compared to this, Article 21 (2) (c) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended as follows: In the century, the value debate is precisely about whether we give in to the pressure of capital, whether we allow profit to overtake man; whether we allow profit to precede man, then not only to the nation states, but also to destroy the planet. That's the real value dispute today in the 21st century. In the century, whether social values, ecological values, can prevail against the pursuit of profit. It's a hard-core value dispute. As is the case with regard to today's 21st century. In fact, the survival of national frameworks, nation states and local communities in the first century can guarantee that global giant companies practically put complete countries and complete local communities in their own straitjackets. When my fellow Member Hörcsik mentions developments in various European countries, I cannot help but mention that this proposal for a resolution is no longer a pioneer within the European Union. Just yesterday, Austria chose a President of the Republic who is facing the TTIP sharply. There will be a referendum in the Netherlands on these new-circular conventions. The President of the French Republic has stated that he rejects this convention, and so has the Polish Government, and I have no doubt as to how the majority of the Greek Parliaments will take a position on this convention. Indeed, we cannot allow these decisions to be made above our heads, and, if necessary, we must also enforce the requirement of transparency with the United States. However, I would like to warn my fellow Member Hörcsik that he is trying to liquefy this proposal and to dismantle the various conventions. Because if there is a value debate that I have responded to my fellow Member Mesterházy, it is precisely that we do not have to work here on the stage in which the convention is in. The real question, the real debate, is, if you will, XX. and Article 21 (2) (a) Thus, what we think about free trade is a value dispute between the parties of the century. I have made it very clear that I think exactly the same thing about free trade as the currently most popular American presidential candidate thinks: that it is the 21st. In the century, unlimited free trade simply serves the interests of companies and destroys the entire planet. I think, Mr Hörcsik, that there is a need to knock down light stings here. It doesn't matter what bureaucratic phase the treaty is in. Hungary must make it clear that it does not give in to its sovereignty, and these three conventions - the Agreement on Trade in Services, TTIP and the Canadian Convention - are closely linked. There must be a clear moral standard. When the Minister for Foreign Affairs talks about Hungary's export dependency, I would refer back to what my fellow Member Erzsébet Schmuck and Márton Gyöngyösi said in part. The tragedy of Hungary's position after the change of regime is that it became an extremely export-dependent, exposed national economy. After 2010, the government's policy is about taking note of Hungary's export dependency and how to rearrange its export structure. On the other hand, we are saying that Hungary should take a course to reduce extreme export dependency, where we are also dependent on exports where the import content of goods is extremely high. In order to quote a hit at the time of the change of regime, whatever comes in here will come right out. This is a very simple formula of the Hungarian national economy. For example, there is no negotiating strategy for free trade agreements that can be negotiated with the situation that Hungary is extremely dependent on external factors. Remember, how does a government want to defend the sovereignty of this country while accepting this extreme addiction? Last but not least, we cannot accept that Hungary is destined to be a country of assembly. If we want a developing, renewable Hungary, we do not have to assume that Hungary, the Hungarian workers, is the servants of German automotive companies. If we want a developing, renewable Hungary, then we need to create exactly an economic turnaround that strengthens the ability to raise domestic capital and strengthens the local economy. These free trade agreements - and there is no difference between them - are attacking precisely the strengthening of the local economy, and not only in Hungary, but, as I quoted, in North America, they are challenging precisely the laws protecting the local economy. There is also a famous lawsuit where the Exxonmobile sued Canada because it purchased the products used for oil extraction from local producers. I'm only setting this example to make it clear that this free trade logic is attacking the local economy everywhere on the planet. Hungary's potential to break out lies precisely in the development of the local economy. For this reason, I ask the honourable Parliament to consider this proposal for a resolution to be a minimum, thanking the keynote speakers. We should ask for a lot more than that. For example, we should demand the United States of America to forget about this shameful secret regime immediately. For example, Hungarian diplomacy should move further within the European Union, which is not included in this proposal for a resolution, so that it is clear that we reject this shady attitude of the United States of America. While preaching transparency, preaching anti-corruption, when it comes to the interests of their own lobbyists, they put this bill in such mystery that sometimes even the Fidesz government might envy it. [[12.50]] Dear Parliament, Let it be clear that in these conventions we decide both Hungary and not exaggeration, the fate of Europe and the world. The question is whether the voices that continue to represent profit precedes man and which strengthen exploitation all over the planet, or whether common sense prevails, the policy - which is now in North America as we see signs of it - which stops the free trade march, commands the giant companies to stop, because it both destroys the sovereignty of the nation states and destroys the planet. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-24-58	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. It is now possible for the first independent Member to speak. I'll ask him if he wants to take the opportunity. [[There's no candidate.]] He doesn't want to. Thank you very much. Then a two-minute speech will follow, since they only came from the MSZP fraction. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-24-59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I readily accept that András Schiffer says that this is a value dispute, but I do - and he may say that this is technocratism - say that it is realism and pragmatism. So the very black-and-white contrast to the fact that companies are only interested in profit and human well-being, I think that simplistic claim would also support criticism and debate. I was trying to clarify what I was talking about, because maybe I meant the value issue - and maybe I wasn't entirely clear about that - that it doesn't really have to be the position of the Hungarian government that now, in the debate, who - now simplified - will be Atlanticist-friendly or US-friendly, and who is against it just because it doesn't agree with something, and in this respect I don't think it's good to have this type of ideological debate. I consider myself an Atlantist, but nonetheless, I consider this question to be self-critical. So in this sense, I think that the claim that the Hungarian national interest must be determined in this dimension is certainly not based on this, but rather on the fact that it brings or brings to the Hungarian people, and I do not think that this precludes a company from having a profit, because it would be difficult to operate without it. But this will certainly be another debate, only because I still think that there is room for realism and pragmatism, not just ideological debates on this issue. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President.
u2016-05-24-60	Thank you very much. We will continue with the two-minute speeches. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind is next. Here you go.
u2016-05-24-61	Dear House, I was curiously looking forward to this day, because one of the biggest problems with TTIP and CETA is that it is not possible to know what individual formations think exactly about this issue. Obviously, there are people who protest by their absence and think that they are not involved in this debate, then they give us the opportunity to continue to think of their attitude as we think they are. I am not satisfied, however, with the fact that the leaders and the Minister who spoke here about TTIP have laid down the stakes on the part of the governing parties. I think that a government that has put national sovereignty on its flag cannot afford to levitate this issue in any respect. One of today's slogans could be this red line, which has been said many times with regard to GMOs, but I think that this is not just about GMOs. GMO is an important and fundamental thing, but what we have been talking about, public services, labour, health, a number of issues that would affect the lives of European citizens and Hungarian citizens in the world of TTIP, as you usually talk about this issue, I think that this is all mentioned on this issue. And it's not enough that the negotiations aren't there yet and will continue. The fact is that even negotiations are harmful to the health of European citizens. We know precisely from leaked materials that the Commission thought that it had proven that no more substances harmful to health were banned in Europe because they feared that negotiations with America would be adversely affected. So there are six substances currently on the market, especially in such hygiene articles, which cause terrible things, hidden testicles in the health of citizens, because negotiations with TTIP are, in the Commission's view, at risk. So here's the proof that he managed to get people with great difficulty who made sacrifices from the world of secrets, from these secret rooms, that negotiations are harmful to the health of European citizens. This is why it is not understandable that the European party family of Fidesz and the MSZP voted on their backs to continue these negotiations calmly.
u2016-05-24-62	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. At the same time, a two-minute speech from the Fidesz Group will be followed by Mr Zsolt Nyitrai. Here you go.
u2016-05-24-63	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In my two-minute comment, I would like to respond to András Schiffer's comment. As Minister said, a free trade agreement can always have opportunities and, where appropriate, serious risks; it has an impact on the whole of the country involved and its national economy. Hungary clearly believes in an export-oriented economy and we are moving towards an open market economy. The LMP proposal concerns several issues which are at different negotiating stages. I think that the pro-government position is completely uniform, strict security guarantees and that Hungarian interests are being taken into account. Our position is that the national parliaments, as you said, cannot be bypassed and we should send a message to Brussels and send a message to Washington that there is no decision without us. Hungary's GMO-free status, which I think has been exemplary in maintaining in Hungary, as there is a very serious, fundamental, strict regulation here, and this must also be borne in mind in the coming period: maintaining and strengthening the system of environmental protection, food safety and GMO-free. I think it is certainly good that we are discussing this issue in Parliament, and I propose that we keep it on the agenda. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-24-64	Thank you very much. The Members' speeches, which have been registered in advance in writing, will follow. I give the floor first to Member Gábor Staudt of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-24-65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, It was very interesting to hear the debate, and we're just in the middle of it. There's been a lot of talk. I'm gonna have to repeat a few things in the elements, but I'm trying to add new information. It seems to me that it is gratifying to say that the opinion of the majority of Parliament is broadly in the same direction, or that those who think otherwise are not here or have not yet spoken to. But I believe that with regard to the principles - and this is demonstrated by the inclusion of András Schiffer's proposal, the LMP proposal - we agree, and this is very important, because in recent times there has been a lot of hearing about the government's opinion and the government's attitude to similar trade agreements, whether TTIP or CETA. I have to say that such a proposal for a resolution, although András Schiffer is right to define only the minimum, is a principle from which it would not be possible to derogate or the obligation to ratify it, which, I think, is a clear thing in such a mixed agreement, and it is not very possible to say for these agreements that it would be entirely the competence of the Union to conclude such an agreement. And why is that? Because these aren't trade agreements. Basically, they're not just trying to remove trade barriers, which is why his name is a liar, and if something in his title isn't telling the truth, it's when you approach him sceptically. So he's proclaiming himself to some kind of trade agreement, but that's mostly not what it's about, so let's take it up with the doping problem that there are other vile things that can be done here under similar agreements with our country and with the European Union. There has been a lot of talk here about how these negotiations are taking place and what the content of these negotiations is. I would not repeat that we are actually talking about principles in the US and Hungary and in the European Union, and we are talking about established principles that will be very difficult to find common ground. It could be said to maintain the higher level of protection, that would be logical, so if there is a lower level of protection, and there is a higher level of protection elsewhere, then let us raise this. We are not trying to do this, but we are trying to bring European standards to the American level, and this is not a judgment of value in this form. Obviously, if this has worked so far in America, they have reason to do so, but let Europe and Hungary stick to the regulations that have evolved over centuries, since this is not about the fact that these principles were laid down yesterday. [[13.00]] I must say that it has not occurred to me, and it is regrettable that the Union and Brussels bureaucrats will convince Washington that it is also better for US citizens to introduce a higher level of protection, whether in the field of consumer protection or OSH, and how good it would be if negotiations had been in this direction. I think that those of us who have seen one or two of these procedures and, in terms of results, we have had the opportunity to go through these agreements, not that the bureaucrats in Brussels could have protected the interests of European Union citizens so well. By the way, anyone who had already seen a negotiating committee or even attended a lecture, where, say, on the part of the European Commission at the highest level, or at a certain level, there was a representative, and let's say, on the part of America, a middle- or lower-level representative was sent away, in that case the difference in professionalism was outstanding, and unfortunately not to the benefit of the Union. So Americans are professional negotiators, you have to admit, they represent their own government and their own companies very well. That would not be a problem if we saw the same on the other side of the Union. But this is not what we see; we see insecure, turning Members who want to meet the lobby groups, and this is also true to the top level of the Union, and at this point one is desperate to know who they are who represent the Union and thus our country. This, of course, leads further, but it must be said. Then the secrecy of the negotiations. It is true that European and American political culture giving so much transparency in this case seems to have put everything in parentheses. You can go into secret rooms for MEPs, Members of Parliament, and you can read these materials. Not only can they use a photocopy or a camera or a phone to record anything, but they can't even tell us what they read there. So even in their own words, it is not possible to share where the negotiations are going. I don't know what the negotiating committee was thinking, the negotiating delegation. In fact, once Greenpeace is leaked, you can understand what they were ashamed of - I believe that this already proves that negotiations are not conducted in a fair and open way. If something and the Union were to protect the interests of European Union citizens in a fair way, I believe that it could be negotiated in full publicity, no one would have anything to fear. Then we can see the complete lack of real impact assessments. We asked for these studies several times before in the Committee on European Affairs, but here in front of the public of the Parliament, and then we received certain parts, but they were not satisfactory. The Hungarian government did not carry out in-depth studies, but neither did the Union. And what we have seen and about positive estimates are also predicting such a 0.5-0.6-1 percent increase in GDP at EU level - and not to mention how much of that is available to Hungary. The only thing to add to this is that there really is such a 0.1 percent increase in Hungary here. And allow me to bring it up again, that there has already been a debate here in Parliament several times about whether, through the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank, the amount abducted is about 1 percent of Hungarian GDP, and we are now debating whether, for a few tenths of GDP growth, everything that is consumer protection, everything that is OSH and everything else is at risk. It's not just ridiculous, it's rather tragic, I must say. Not to mention, when we talk about pessimistic estimates, there is a clear reduction in GDP. These should also be placed on the table, and fair studies should be conducted and carried out on the impact this will have on Europe. And then it's a telltale sign that if we look at the Republican and Democratic side of America, the main political stance is that everyone supports these agreements and supports TTIP. Of course, we can also see that there are differences there, and now the new presidential candidates-aspirants, who are not part of the establishment, are already a little different, and perhaps this has also pushed the public thinking a little too, political thinking. But you have to see that everyone was there, and Obama has repeatedly called it his oeuvre, his main oeuvre, so that it can be accepted. Now I'm going to ask again whether Obama is now representing the US or Europe, so whether Obama can hold an agreement with his oeuvre if it is in the best interests of Europe. Well, I don't think so, because we're used to American presidents representing their own interests, which, from their point of view, is very right, but we would expect the same on the European side, and unfortunately we don't see the same thing, which gives us fear. Then an investor-state dispute resolution forum. It has been said many times and the interpretation by the various bureaucrats is why, then, an investor would not try to protect his invested capital. That would even sound good on its own. But then I would remind you that this is not about the fact that the capital invested cannot be taken from them. It's a natural need. I would add that, if this were to happen, the court of any EU Member State would say so to that State. So if anyone doubts that, then we are talking about whether independent justice is in place in the EU Member States. In this form, I believe that it works and that no one can be arbitraryly taken from their property, not from an EU citizen, not from a European Union company, not from an American company. But that's not what this is about. It is about the profits - and this has been said several times - that they have not yet received, have not been taken in, or by reference to a loss that is meant by the amendment of the law of a country or of the European Union, and is applied to everyone, and also to local companies and multi-company companies, and if the damage to the multi-company is suffered, then he can sue, and not even before a state court, but before an elected court, which, by the way, local companies cannot do. How often do we see, unfortunately, in Hungary, that the government changes a rule, and the bulk of Hungarian companies are more disadvantaged, or for years, companies have made a development, and then a brutal intervention comes to the market in which Hungarian companies are at a disadvantage - no one has reimbursed this damage. In such cases, there would be virtually inequality if the multi-company companies could do this, otherwise, let us say, not Hungarian businesses. By the way, my whole feeling, as you would call it, was a declaration by liberals or perhaps the liberal party of Gábor Fodor, perhaps they were the most determined to support this agreement under all circumstances. Before joining the European Union, we could feel and hear that, although at that time more widely, most of the political mainstream parties at that time supported our accession to the EU in this form, and we were also told that there would be no need to address the concerns about how good it would be, GDP growth, travel, work anywhere - well, we can see what its outcome was. And allow me to include GMOs for some thought, because many people, if they watch - and I very much hope that mediation is watched by citizens and voters too - may believe that the protection of GMOs in the Union has been achieved, and that this agreement or agreement could in fact destroy it. No, the situation with the agreement, with the TTIP, would continue to deteriorate. However, at the moment, it is also possible for certain countries to be exempted from, say, GMO seed on the basis of lengthy procedures for each GMO product, crop, seed. But there is no such restriction on trade, and the debates were about whether this should be mentioned at all on the label of the various products. For now, we still need to, but there are already opinions about how excluded it is that it should be written that it contains GMOs. It can therefore be traded and produced in the Union in countries that have not requested a derogation for certain seeds. So I have to say that both the European Union and the European Parliament should have created the European Union as a GMO-free area, not as an attempt to set it up as a huge success that some countries have a great deal of difficulty in achieving it for each type of seed, this must be done so that it cannot be grown within national borders. [[13.10]] By the way, I would add that this GMO exemption clause in the basic law, which is correctly included in the Hungarian Fundamental Law, is binding only on the Hungarian government, the current Hungarian government, and binding on the Hungarian Parliament if it does not do the fundamental law amendment, but does not bind the bodies of the Union. So this protection is not a protection against an EU, but, at best, if a government would be in power that would change it and allow it to enter the GMO, it would not be possible for it to do so. Of course, this is also important, but don't make it look like it's providing an adequate protection against Brussels. Moreover, it must also be said here that the MEPs of Fidesz are first representatives of the EPP group, and then Hungarians, because they gave their votes to regulations and regulations that were contrary to the opinion of the Hungarian Government. I think we should talk to the MEPs of Fidesz about how they felt. Let me give you one more example of how the various seeding materials proposed for GMO cultivation are authorised, and our MEP Zoltán Balczó gave me this material. For example, the Council of Ministers had to decide to authorise the cultivation of genetically modified maize DuPont 1510. 19 countries in the Council of 28 opposed, 5 abstained and 4 supported the granting of the authorisation. Do you think they gave you permission? They gave it to me because they didn't have the qualified majority to stop it. So the 19 votes against, the 5 abstentions and the 4 subsidies were a licence in the democratic decision-making process of the Union. So when we talk about what can be protected, how and how to act effectively against GMOs, please talk first with your own MEPs or even with your own EU Commissioner and try to get them to at least [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] represent the Government's opinion in the European Parliament. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-24-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Sallai R. Benedek from the Group of the LMP is now taking the floor. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2016-05-24-67	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, There has already been a lot of discussion on this agenda today, and yet I would only be calm if Fidesz-KDNP stood up and said that it stood up from the negotiating table and did not support the continuation of any negotiation through its representatives. There can be long discussions about their ideological backgrounds, economic effects, GMOs, but basically there is no other reassuring solution than the government explicitly expressing that this cannot be a favourable agreement for Hungary under the current conditions or otherwise. It is important that we talk about this, that we do not speak of it in any other way, because some aspects, which are basically the impact of globalisation processes, are hardly mentioned. Today, the subject of GMOs has been a relatively high-representation topic, so I do not really want to talk about it, and I just wanted to reflect on one thing: my colleague from Nitra said that what an exemplary effort is being made in Hungary on this subject. That's the one thing I wanted to deny, that's not it. I am very pleased that the government stands by these aspects in words, but what we need to see is that Hungary cannot do anything meaningful for its GMO-free right now. At present, 540 thousand tonnes of GMO feed is imported into Hungary every year, while the Hungarian agricultural portfolio wants to support protein-based production in Hungary. He'll do that. This production took place on 77 thousand hectares in 2015, but 80 percent of it was sold to Austria and Switzerland by the group's interest group, the interest group related to Sándor Csányi. So unfortunately, the exemplary GMO exemption that we are talking about here is not guaranteed. But, as I said, I do not want to talk about GMOs anymore, because I have to say that I am not interested in GMOs from the point of view of the Free Trade Agreement, because the Free Trade Agreement is fundamentally wrong, with or without GMOs. If the American party says that it will retire and that a single Monsanto product will not come into the EU again, if it says that a single GMO product does not need to be imported here, it will still be bad for Hungary. Please forgive me, but everyone here has said their own thoughts about the world, and let me share with you that, in my view, ecopolitics, sustainability, basically require thinking in the nation, requires us to think that our common language, our common history, is nothing more than the protection and preservation of our common natural resources, the territory of the country for our offspring. Protecting these common resources justifies trying to farm in such a way that we can get the best, the best. And that is why I find it a little worrying what the Minister and my fellow Member Nyitrai confirmed after him from an economic point of view, because this phrase was used in a row, so in their speech it was said three times in total: Hungary is conducting an export-oriented economy. I suppose one of the communications advisors has told others that this should be said, but basically they must see that many among your voters, in your ranks, could argue with this value system. At the moment, Hungary has the resources to meet its internal economic needs and internal social needs. How natural do you think it is that in a country with more than 5.3 million hectares of arable land, we do not have our own machinery? How natural is it that virtually a significant part of our industry depends entirely on the rest of the world? How natural it is that a significant part of our tools of use, the tools we use for our everyday activities, which we use here and here are on the table before us, all come from abroad, even though we would have the Hungarian knowledge and the Hungarian need to produce for the Hungarian market. Compared to this, the Minister for Foreign Economy says that we are an export-oriented country. Why should it be? Why is it natural that the proportion of Hungarian food on the shelves of Hungarian food shops is slightly higher than 40 percent, while all the rest is imported from abroad, even from the Member State? A different kind of thinking is what I think a thinking government in a nation should represent. You have to look at the internal needs, the conditions that the country can produce, and see how to enrich the country with these manufactured goods. It's a crazy misconception that a closed economy can't grow. After working on natural resources, they produce goods year after year, and the distribution and processing of all of these creates the opportunity for the country to grow and the people to live better. While what you stand for here is an export-oriented economy, it makes us essentially vulnerable to an external market. And that brings us to one of the most important parts of the Transatlantic Free Trade Convention: globalisation itself, the kind of globalisation that many parts of us can talk about. We can talk about its cultural effects, and I am very happy to see over the weekend that President László Kövér shares our concerns in this regard, but obviously we can also talk about what economic globalisation is and what its effects are, because the TTIP is nothing more than a total expansion of economic globalisation to the world. TTIP is the full economic extension of the world's economic powers and the world's transatlantic alliances with political power. This is an end to nations, a betrayal of thinking in the nation. Let me quote you. Economic globalisation has continued to increase the high levels of inequalities that exist all over the world. I also found another data, which is very interesting, because it is possible to look back until 1913 at what the difference between countries was economically. Economic income gap between the richest and poorest countries in 2013 1:10, so ten times, 26 times in 1950, 40 times in 1990, and this is now 60 times the size of today. This is the difference between the richest and the poorest countries. It's globalization. Globalisation is when we talk about the fact that 41 percent of the world's population, i.e. 4.2 billion people - we are talking about 1998 - had as much wealth as the richest 200 people in 1998 according to data from the United Nations. What's today compared to this? In January 2016, according to the latest data, 1 percent of the world's population has more wealth than 99 percent of the remaining. 62 people's wealth in the world has increased by 44 percent since 2010, and half the world's poorer income has fallen by 41 percent. It's globalization. More and more layers become richer, fewer and fewer, and more and more of the poor. That's TTIP, that's free trade. You can think a lot about this and say that they can have positive effects for us, but they can't. It cannot be because two countries, which have a completely different reserve of natural resources and a completely different system of regulation, whether for agricultural production or for other purposes, cannot achieve this competitiveness. [[13.20]] Let me give you a quote. The day-to-day news was published in a publication:, The European agricultural sector cannot compete with US producers in price, says the analysis. More stringent EU standards increase costs for poultry by 5 percent, while US farmers produce their products at 78 percent of the EU's costs. They can also produce pork 30 percent cheaper. These are the differences where the free trade agreement and the freedom that lies in it clearly drive the opportunities towards a stronger party. This is what makes the country's economy fully vulnerable, and this is what basically achieves the economic globalisation that can fully serve the country economically, socially, and, yes, László Kövér is right, culturally also for a completely different nation. That is why it is important that the only solution you can choose right now is to stand up and say that under no circumstances can this continue. Excuse me, obviously within the faction, I have the task of talking about a specific area of expertise such as agriculture, because the analyses that take place in the European Union are examining this area, and it would be a sin not to mention that Hungary is, at the moment, an agricultural country because of its natural resources reserve. It was and will remain an agricultural country, because our most important natural resources, besides fresh water, are in the stock of agricultural land, and it is therefore crucial how we can build long-term employment on this. Let us then look at the phenomena of the Transatlantic Free Trade Agreement for this sector. European Union analyses also say that, not only would the free trade agreement between the Union and the United States bring about growth but rather a decline for agriculture on the old continent. This is stated in several EU analyses. Yet, there must be fear that Brussels will sacrifice the agricultural land on the altar of the Convention. However, the attitude of the Hungarian government, which has so far been foggy, seems to have changed since the recent leak of secret negotiating documents. The question is, this process we see, what is the sign of? We don't see a clear speech at the moment. Just yesterday, I would have interpelled the Minister of Foreign Affairs here to find out what Sándor Fazekas represented the Hungarian agriculture in April when he was in consultation with his colleagues in the United States and Canada. I saw you make very nice selfies with city celebrities, but I was curious about what you represented in the TTIP case, in the case of GMOs, in the case of Hungarian agriculture. Unfortunately, I didn't get a straight answer from the interpellation, but I'll tell you what double communication is that you can see. Minister Sándor Fazekas came home, he went to the Hungarian Times, or the Hungarian Times married him, this is of little importance, and he said that he stood up karakanily to protect Hungarian agriculture, the GMO is not brought into Europe, and he is doing everything he can for Hungarian farmers. However, if you look at the reminders made of these meetings, this is not the case. In fact, it is a matter of your colleague in America telling him specifically that this is a fundamental condition for the American party to open the door to biotechnology modernisations, and that the European Union must break down the barriers against these trade goals by a country such as Hungary that does not want to allow such crops in. As I said, I do not want to talk about GMOs, I just want to talk about what is specific for Hungarian agriculture and for the country, for the European Union, which may pose risks. Many times, it is said that our fellow Member Hörcsik has also said that there are currently only negotiations, and there is no need to be specific concern. But let's see if this has any effect. Obviously, it is clear that the negotiation itself is already creating opportunities for progress. Once again, let me quote an expert report on the negotiation process: the US negotiator has repeatedly urged the European authorisation of peroxyacetic acid chicken in connection with the TTIP negotiations. The EU first authorised lactic relaying of meat products, and then in December last year it also put the suspension on the agenda. It's his preparation when the wolf sets foot in the piggy's house. In order to meet the demand from Americans and biotech companies, the Committee would also like to resolve the zero tolerance principle for unauthorized genetically modified organisms. There is no TTIP yet, but we have this ambition. Also in line with the request from the US Government, the Commission has been procrastining for years the ban on various substances that are harmful to the hormonal system and, in most cases, carcinogens in Europe, even though the EU decision obliges the Commission. According to studies published last year, related harmful chemicals increase European health spending by more than EUR 150 billion a year. There's no TTIP yet, but the wolf's leg is already in the building, and the reason why we have to stop it is because after that, we may not have a chance. We are asking the government to think about the phenomena that are becoming increasingly obvious, and it is becoming increasingly obvious that we should not continue negotiations, and we cannot allow these negative trends to grow. Right now, from the 100 largest economies in the world, we are now a company over 61 nations, not countries, not nations, such companies. These are represented by TTIP. Seventy-four percent of international trade is in the hands of 500 multinational companies, and it is obviously not a good place for transnational and multinational companies to be colluded in communication, but it is only in the business interest, not for the representation of values, but for the representation of people, because their ethology requires that nothing else be taken into account, and this cannot be allowed to be a decision-making influence on the Union. We now see that the annual income of the 200 largest companies is eighteen times greater than almost 40 percent of the world's population. So companies are more important than people. Basically, globalisation is a negative process in the world. Obviously, this can be a belief and a value-based opinion, which I am giving, since it is not necessary to agree on. But it is certain that the economic effects of globalisation have had a negative impact on people's lives over the last 30 years, the Roman Club, since we have been watching this process, can lead to the poverty of people everywhere, to the wealth of billionaires. If you look at the table of Hungarian billionaires, the latest reports, you see the same within the country. That is why we have to put a stop to this, because if you have taken on the representation of the Hungarian people, it is in the interests of the Hungarian people to have a strong economy based on the needs of the internal market, which basically aims to achieve sustainability within the framework of the Carpathian Basin for the next centuries. I ask your support for this. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-05-24-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. There are two-minute speeches coming up. First, I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, representative of the MSZP, notary of the Parliament.
u2016-05-24-69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am watching the role of the government, and I look forward to when they will speak on the subject, because there have been quite a number of speeches on the subject from both the authors and the opposition representatives, but not really the revelation of the clear positions of the government. The double speech was typical, as many have already said in relation to their earlier statements and their position. This should also be refined, but that is not what I want to deal with, and then, in my normal comment, a little more, obviously, about the bill. There is only one thing I would like to mention now. I think that what we are talking about in terms of free trade, not only to Hungary, but obviously to extend Europe's future in a broader dimension, and to shape and shape it. It has a tangible effect not in the short term, but also in the long term. Indeed, there are events, there will be events that are irreversible, irreversible. These basic issues should in fact be clarified. What is important is what the Minister said regarding the red lines, thank you very much, I mean that maintaining the GMO exemption is essential, but I think it is important to talk more about this issue, whether in relation to the issue of European environmental protection or food safety, or, as has already been discussed in the context of the discussion, about the development of profit and living, normal living space. So, these issues should be clarified and government positions should also be clarified. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-05-24-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Márton Gyöngyösi is coming from the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2016-05-24-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond essentially to the suggestion of Attila Mesterházy, who is no longer in the room, that TTIP is primarily a debate on interests and not a debate on values. [[13.30]] There is no doubt that profit interests dominate the business world, and this may well be the case, and it is not a problem, and it is also useful for society to have profit interests in our societies in some way, but society will only benefit from this kind of approach if it operates and takes place within the framework. The regulation, on the other hand, is a matter for the state, and the failure of neoliberal economic policy has given us very serious experience in this regard. The fact that in the United States the state sees itself differently and elsewhere than in Europe, we know that although we do not know what the reason for this is - we have tips - we do not know whether this is due to the state of two hundred years of history and experience, or whether the political system itself is being built with the political elite in the hands of companies and multinational profit interests. Now there is an election in America, and we can see exactly how politics is subordinated to profit interests. Where, in a pre-election campaign, the GDP of some continents is being scattered by some candidates, and the campaign is still to come, this shows what policy is in place and what it is subject to. That's what Americans do. So if the American citizens are comfortable with this system, there is nothing wrong with that, it is their sovereign right, but it cannot happen that this kind of approach dominates and settles into a very different approach, which is based here, in Europe or in our country. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-24-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask Mr András Schiffer, Group leader, whether he has asked for two minutes or for his speech. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Two minutes.]] Here you go.
u2016-05-24-73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On the one hand, I would like to reply to my fellow Member of Gyöngyösi: it is not appropriate for American citizens to manage their common affairs from Wall Street. It is also very obvious in the current US presidential elections that more and more people in America recognize that the rich few have captured American politics, that large companies are calling presidents and foreign ministers into the pen what their profit interests are, and that the will of the people in the United States has become secondary. This is exactly what was manifested on the Republican side, and Bernie Sanders is the most popular presidential candidate in the United States today. The other issue is that we need to make it clear, and that is what my fellow Member Sallai was talking about. In the 18th century, national frameworks, like local communities in general, are a refuge against the push of giant companies. The choice of value is whether we say no to globalisation based on free trade, whether we dare to imagine another world, whether the world can be different, whether we dare to imagine an alternative globalisation. At the time when economic benefits were discussed at government level here in recent times, one thing was forgotten, also by the socialists. What we have at the moment is employment-related means that if TTIP enters into force, 600 000 European jobs will be at risk. That's the thing. So when anyone talks about economic benefits, they risk losing 600,000 jobs. In which we need a clear response from the Hungarian government as a matter of urgency, whether Hungary is willing to veto the Canadian Convention, which is the test plant of all others. I need a clear government response on this. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-24-74	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. We will continue with the proper speeches. Mr Tibor Bana from the Jobbik Group is next; he will be followed by Mr János Bencsik.
u2016-05-24-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would also like to underline that the Jobbik Group welcomes the fact that this proposal for a resolution has come before us, and what I would consider even more important, is that, in the end, Parliament will accept this in its unchanged form. I have doubts about this because I would like to refer back to what was going on with the proposal being included in the series. We discussed the proposal of our fellow Member, Mr Schiffer, on the Committee on European Affairs, and what happened then was that, as a first item on the agenda, we heard a briefing on TTIP, István Mikola, who played the role of the rapporteur, and then, a long half-hour later, we had this proposal as a third item on the agenda, including this series of items, and after Mr Secretary of State talked about how important it was that parliamentary ratification should take place in this case, and the government's position, our fellow members on the third agenda, who voted in the opposite direction, and tried to bring forward some circumstantial argument, too, Mr Mikola, Secretary of State, why they could not support this proposal before us. I am pleased, of course, that the opinion has changed since then, but I do have my doubts, and on the basis of what has been said here, I am afraid that even amendments could be tabled here that would lye this proposal and lose its original meaning. Indeed, this fear can be strengthened by the fact that we actually have a double speech from the government side. So there are so-called strong people among the members of the government and in the pro-government benches who are clearly arguing for the adoption of TTIP. Of course, in the spirit of fairness, it should also be noted that there are also pro-government politicians who are very firm in their position that the EU free trade agreement is unacceptable. Here in Parliament, however, it can be seen that it is only the LMP, other than us, who has been a better person, that has been a consistent and clear position on this issue from the beginning, and that they have brought up this big issue, not only here, within the walls of Parliament, but also in connection with various civil events or other forums. If I have already referred to the double speech, it is also worth mentioning here that we have seen in the European Parliament, too, from the representatives of Fidesz, that they have expressed a clear support position there. So these things should definitely be put in order. We consistently say that it is unacceptable to conclude a free trade agreement between TTIP, the EU and the US. Numerous arguments have been put before me here, either in relation to the adverse effects of the State Investor Dispute Resolution Mechanism or from an employee's point of view, I would also like to bring here the issue of the negative effects on the SME sector or the confidentiality of negotiations, and the fact that there is now limited access to certain data, but information cannot be retrieved from it, and it is not the most recent data who can finally access these documents. There are no studies, my fellow Members, which would support the fact that this would benefit Central Europe and Hungary in any way, in particular, in economic terms, because we in the Hungarian Parliament must look at this from this approach, and indeed from the opposite side, even from a government side. There has been a lot of talk about the issue of GMOs, but I think that there is not enough to talk about, because agriculture, the aspect of farmers, is crucial in this respect. Here, while I was talking about civilians, I would refer to the study compiled by the Friends of the Earth Europe and the Association of Hungarian Nature Protectors, which was published in the Hungarian National Park yesterday, and they said that it would have a devastating effect on agriculture and food production in Europe if the American agricultural lobby were to be freed when the free trade agreement between the European Union and the United States was concluded, the TTIP, which was a crossfire between the debates between the European Union and the United States. [[László Földi takes his place in the notary seat.]] It is important to see that large companies in the United States are in control of agricultural production, which do not stand a chance on the human scale compared to their industrial agricultural model, which risks the environment and health, but which makes it more expensive for European farmers. They have also set a number of specific professional examples in this study, whether in relation to the sale of American beef or in relation to the US field production, as we can see that they are manipulating the gene structure of plants in order to produce them more economically, and it is estimated that genetically modified seed will bring a hundred dollars more profit per hectare than the GMO-free version, while health risks are still unimaginable. What we can see, Honourable Parliament, is that, unfortunately, in these negotiations, Brussels and the people responsible will sacrifice European agriculture in exchange for the German automotive industry in particular to be one of the winners of the agreement. [[13.40]] Of course, try to wrap this agreement nicely and sell the upcoming TTIP so that the dismantling of customs duties and other restrictions will benefit everyone. But foreign analyses also confirm that European farmers, including Hungarian farmers, will be among the losers. But here I would also refer back to the fact that, yes, this can be packed very nicely, there is a reference here to what GDP growth and job creation will be - these are the calling words that are hanging around the campaign that is taking place alongside TTIP. However, as I have already indicated, there are no impact studies that can support the truth of this. In fact, I will also give examples of why the situation is contrary. After all, the study by the Earth Friends of Europe and the Hungarian Association of Naturalists also warns that American agricultural imports into the European Union would significantly increase. Moreover, the EP's analysis also shows that European agricultural exports to the US could increase by 56 per cent by 2025, while US imports to the EU could increase by 116 per cent, while EU agriculture would lose between 0.3 and 0.7 per cent. But even American studies can be mentioned here, which also talk about and say that they will be minimal - they too say so, we might think that they are trying to present the situation from an American perspective, and at the very least in the context of European interests, to express what this agreement is going to run out of - even they are saying that the benefits of European producers will be minimal. After that, it is completely incomprehensible that from the government side, however, there is one supporting position on the part of many players, since Századvég Gazdaságkutató Zrt. It is also possible to bring here his study, who also refer to it. And Róbert Fidrich, president of the Association of Hungarian Nature Protectors, underlined that the most important European agricultural sectors would suffer a competitive disadvantage due to the agreement. And indeed, when he said that, he was referring to a study near the government, and this was referred to by the president of the Association of Hungarian Nature Protectors. So, if we look at the direction in which CETA has gone, we can say that it is not promising at all for the future, because it is just waiting for final ratification, and it is a common objective to minimise the negative effects on trade of the biotechnological product legislation, which would clearly lead to the relaxation of EU standards. And there, for example, in Canada, the sale of genetically modified salmon has already been authorised. It was also pointed out by the association and association mentioned above that Canadian companies could sue certain EU countries within three years in the context of the highly criticised state-investor dispute resolution mechanism, even if the veto of a Member State did not result in the entry into force of CETA. So these aspects must also be taken into account when we analyse the proposal before us, and when I say yes, it is very important that the Parliament accepts this in its unchanged form, do not try to lye it, do not try to resolve it, because I think we have a very well put proposal here. I trust that Parliament will be able to accept this by a significant majority at the end. What is crucial to our country is that trade within Europe would also fall significantly if TTIP were to enter into force, and the studies to which I have referred point out that Central Europe would be the most disadvantaged from this point of view in the conclusion of the Convention. And what we have seen in the case of NAFTA is that, indeed, the Member States, Mexico, have fallen behind in the fights they have fought against multinational companies. And indeed, this can wait for us if we accept it, and Hungary will have little chance of fighting multinationals when a lawsuit is brought within the framework of the state-investor dispute resolution mechanism. Not to mention that from the American side, for example, I see the intention to redistribute the energy market here. There are, therefore, a number of aspects that we consider, as the negotiations currently stand, to be extremely damaging to our country if we accept this. And that's why I don't understand the government's position. What is official government communication? The fact that we have to take part in the negotiations, we have to sit at the table. Each time we are informed, they tell us that we are trying to enforce the interests that are important to us as far as possible. Yes, in this case, the critical comments that we make are indeed correct. It is just that, in many cases, we have seen that this was the government's communication, but then, as time progressed, this has changed in such a way that, unfortunately, we have not been able to find enough allies; we have not been able to achieve our goals; and, in the end, we do well to conclude this agreement; there is no way to stay out of it, because it would be very harmful for our country, and then our Euroatlantic relations would deteriorate and we could have similar arguments in the past. So I am asking the government to have a much more firm position in this case and to be much clearer in favour of Hungarian national interests. And of course, if you do, you can count on our support. But I say, looking back on the past decades, we have, indeed, not once have we faced the fact that, in the beginning, there were indeed such opinions, and today the Minister has said in this direction that we are trying to do everything possible to fully enforce our national interests, but then, in the end, the conclusion was that we have to sign the agreement without a better one, we cannot stay out of it, because then our federal system will see the damage. We don't think so. We believe that we need to do everything we can to prevent this proposal from being adopted. I very much hope that it will indeed receive the support from the pro-government side to make parliamentary ratification inevitable, because it is crucial for the sovereignty of the country that it has a substantive say in it for the Members of Parliament elected by the voters, who, in our hope, are able to express their views here. I hope that this question will come before us many more times in the future. And once again, I would like to call on everyone very strongly to accept this proposal in this form. And I ask the representative of the government to take a much clearer position in the negotiations is what Hungary represents, because it is the future of our successors when we talk about the EU-US Free Trade Agreement. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-05-24-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches by Members who have been registered in advance in writing. We now have two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Congressman Richard Hörcsik of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2016-05-24-77	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, At present, there is a Parliamentary resolution proposal in front of the Parliament in the subscription of my fellow Member, András Schiffer. We are debating this proposal. In front of my soul, as I listened to those who participated in the debate, we are about to advance the debate that the Hungarian Parliament will expect in one or two or three or five months' time, who knows when the negotiations will end, to conduct, to ratify the TTIP. And we're practically ahead of things, even though we have to deal with what we're dealing with right now. It is indicated that this proposal for a resolution must, of course, be put in a form that, according to the lawyers, can be accepted as a parliamentary decision proposal. However, I would like to reassure my fellow Members that there is no double speech here. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Yes, you can. You're doing it right now!]] Excuse me, Congressman. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] From Minister Szijjártó's exposé to me, when he said that the direction is good, it is clear that we are not giving up GMO; it is not a matter of giving up on the possibility of ratification of national parliaments. So here the brakes are practically incorporated, which will result in the Hungarian Parliament, if it does not comply with the Hungarian economy, not supporting it and not ratifying it in the future debate. [[13.50]] Once again, ladies and gentlemen, we advance a debate that will have to be held when we get to that item on the agenda. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-24-78	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Sallai R. Benedek from the group of LMP, followed by a national address.
u2016-05-24-79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to say to my fellow Member, Richard Hörcsik, that the point is that we are not preempting the debate, but we are debating whether we will have to hold a debate then. We don't want to. I'm asking you to tell me, based on the data you've learned so far, what's good about it, what's good about it, what's good about it, what's good about it, what's good about it, what's good about it, what's good about it, what's good about it, what's good about it, what's good about it, what's good about it, what's good about it, because we don't see it. If you look at the two pans of the balance sheet, they will tell you some minimal opportunities in the automotive industry, while there is multi-mázsányi stuff, which can be negative for Hungarian agriculture, the Hungarian countryside, Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. That's the problem, and we can't see clearly. Forgive me, the MSZP, I don't understand their position clearly. At least I know where the Jobbik stand, and the LMP has made it clear where he stands. Even Gábor Fodor made it clear. He held a press conference today, and I just saw in the Hungarian news that he is calling on the government to continue ratifying the free trade agreement and such. I just read it, and I saw that even he made it clear. But we don't know your position. I'm glad to see that a leading politician has the same concerns as we do. Only then do we not understand why they do not stand up, why they do not announce in the European Union that there is no solution that can bring benefits. That's what we want to see. We do not want another debate on ratification to be held, but rather that that debate should not come and we should be able to make a decision as soon as possible. Negotiations must not be conducted that are bad for the country and that are negative for the Hungarian society. That is why we are asking our honourable pro-government colleagues to give a firm opinion on this and to put pressure on the government to stop these negotiations. I hope that the adoption of this decision will help this direction. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-05-24-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr András Schiffer, the rapporteur, asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2016-05-24-81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member Hörchik, I was afraid of the stage where you had just arrived. The thing is, I have a law degree, so I have a record that I'm a lawyer. But I'd be very careful to keep you from getting into that street that it's good, very good, very nice, but let's still lawyer it up a little bit. No, no! My fellow Member, this is not a legal issue, I can say that with a law degree. And it's not a professional question. Let's cut the bullshit. [[János Pócs intervenes.]] I wasn't asking the representative of the melon cartel. The fundamental moral question is that Hungary wants a world where profit precedes man, or Hungary wants a world where we can give our natural heritage to our offspring at least in the same condition as we have received it, and whether Hungary wants a world where local communities and nations can preserve their identity. That's the question. Of course, my fellow Member Hörcsik rightly points out that the proposal for a resolution itself is narrower than that. Indeed, one of the elements is whether the authority of the nation state can be bypassed or whether the Hungarian Prime Minister, Hungarian diplomacy, should take a position in Brussels. Yes, that is what the resolution proposal is about. I'd like to warn you not to start liquefying this, and to remove the CETA, TiSA, which one of them. In addition to the fact that point 1 of the text is really about a mixed competence or EU competence, you are here, and you know it very well, because the attack has already started in Brussels and Washington towards Brussels in order to avoid nation-state jurisdiction. What we have all been talking about here from the opposition, at least from Jobbik and LMP, however, is part of the text of the resolution because the intention to circumvent nation-state power is precisely the nature of free trade negotiations and of the free trade idea at all. I would just like to say to you, Mr Hörcsik, that I think you are in a wrong logical circle, because what is not happening is that we advance the outcome of a negotiation process. The point is that when, in such a negotiation process, there is a serious sign that the nation states want to bypass us, but without us to make a decision, it anticipates the outcome of this negotiation process, it shows the nature of this devastating neoliberal logic. Fidesz must also make it clear whether Hungary wishes to continue on such a path, or whether we should enter a track where we clearly say that so far and no longer, and profit cannot overtake people, and national traditions, natural heritage, the rights of people, the freedom of self-determination of communities are more important than the profit interests of some large companies. And when we talk about Hungary's advantages, we have to ask what future we want for our own country, the Hungarian nation. We really want a assembly country, which is dependent on thousands of lines of installed units of foreign automotive companies, producing low added value, or we want a Hungary with a strong local economy, high intellectual performances, and, last but not least, we can compete with high-quality products, where appropriate, chemical-free products, at least in Europe. This question must be answered very clearly. There's no room for smearing, there's no room for lawyering. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-24-82	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. A proper speech from the Fidesz Group will be followed by Mr János Bencsik. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-24-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have found comfort in the discussion of the last three hours that it was not a general anti-capital economy that dominated the conversation. Basically, critical comments have been made on a deformed form of global capital economy that is rooted in the multiplication of money sickness and moral deprivation. Critical comments have been made on a deformed capital economy which does not provide sufficient opportunities for the rejuvenation of local natural resources and local societies, either in time or in quality, but only to maximise profits, which is the primary aspect of its operation. This draft international agreement therefore raises the issue of national self-determination sensitively and may have serious consequences for both natural, social and economic sustainability. It is therefore important to point out that the National Sustainable Development Council, which is in favour of the Parliament, chaired by the current Speaker of the House, and currently by Mr László Kövér, has taken a position on this issue after one year of systematic work in December of last year, and at the beginning of February this year the Speaker of the House, as President of the NFFT, has sent this document to all factions and group leaders. [[In the notary seat, Nándor Gúr will be replaced by István Ikotity.]] The resolution issued includes the experience and knowledge of institutions and organisations with a wide range of values and interests that make up the Council, and we can also say that it is a resolution adopted on the basis of a broad consensus. From the beginning of the Hungarian scientific life, civil society organisations, employees and employers' side, but even MEPs delegated by parliamentary parties and factions are also present in this body, so we can say that the position was indeed formed on the basis of a broad consensus. In establishing this position, we have examined in detail the state of trade between Hungary and the United States, what the figures show. If we look at it on the basis of this, we see that the European Union and the United States together represent about 50 percent of the world's GDP, and that the treaty that may result from negotiations can create the world's largest bilateral trade agreement. [[14.00]] In particular, the volume of Hungarian-American trade is relatively small for both countries at macro level. In 2014, exports to the United States represented 3.5 percent of the total Hungarian exports, and imports from them accounted for only 1.9 percent of the total Hungarian imports. If we also look at the fact that we find multinational companies operating almost exclusively among our exporting companies in Hungary, and if we go further and see that at least half of the exports, but rather 60%, are produced and exported by US-owned companies in Hungary themselves to the United States, then we will create the basis for establishing the right negotiating position. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Indeed, domestic-owned companies are mainly producing intermediate products as suppliers, i.e. indirectly intermediate products, i.e. intermediate semi-finished products. These semi-finished products are transferred into this export process by US-owned companies operating in Hungary to the United States for final processing. It is also important to stress that the level of customs duties in Hungarian-American trade is still quite low. In May 2015, Hungarian exports in the United States were subject to an average of 1.5 per cent real duty, while the effective duty levels of US products in Hungary were slightly higher, approximately 2.6 per cent. For this reason, and consequently for Hungarian-American trade, the TTIP agreement and the breakdown of customs duties within it would lead to a very small increase in exports of around 0,5 per cent and an increase in imports of 0.7 per cent. This would mean a 0.1 per cent change in GDP. An overview of the dispute settlement procedure between the investor and the host State was very important in the formulation of the NFFT resolution. One of the most controversial issues in this investment agreement, and a satisfactory settlement of this can be the cornerstone of the adoption of the whole convention. It is no coincidence that this has been said here many times, in countless speeches. Thus, the ISDS institution is bound by judgments that have caused great indignation, which are also mentioned by others. These are mainly due to serious system errors in arbitration. In drawing up this resolution, we have established that it is not justified to apply ISDS, in fact, as there is absolutely no reason to allow contracting parties with an advanced, stable legal system to refer investment disputes to an arbitration tribunal. At the same time, it could create the possibility of pressure on legislators, as a foreign investor, threatened by a compensation procedure, can attempt to prevent the State, i.e. the nation state, from adopting regulations in the public interest, such as environmental protection, health, food safety or even employment policy. These unilateral benefits are specifically reflected in foreign investors. They represent an extra right for foreign investors that does not belong to domestic-owned companies either in Hungary or in other Member States of the European Union. In return, however, this means of dispute resolution does not impose any obligation on foreign investors. High litigation costs make it possible only for multinational companies, and almost entirely excluded small and medium-sized enterprises in the nation state. In this procedural order, there is also a lack of basic procedural guarantees. In the case of an arbitration tribunal, there are no fundamental procedural guarantees, since it is secret, there is no appeal, there is a uniform interpretation of the Convention and the independence of the arbitration panel is not always guaranteed. Unsubstantiated litigation may also be encouraged by the fact that only the State can be detained as a result of the procedure and be liable to compensation. The investor has nothing to lose other than his own costs; therefore, it may even lead to speculative litigation. The possible introduction of this method of dispute resolution poses a substantial legal and financial risk for Hungary, which may also be suitable for the illegal political influence of the legislators. From a sustainability point of view, it could mean eroding both natural and socio-economic and national capital. I would like to highlight one in the area of environmental and global impacts, which concerns transport and freight transport. While trade itself is generally a source of social welfare growth, transport, which represents the physical implementation of trade, has significant external economic impacts, environmental pressures and pollution, which has a welfare mitigation effect. Think about the negative impact of transit truck traffic passing through Hungary on the load of dust and its consequences. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the introduction and referral of this proposal for a resolution to the Parliament, to which I propose the comments of the National Sustainable Development Council to be considered by the rapporteur. I therefore propose, in three points, that it be supplemented in the context of an amendment. In point 1 of the proposal for a decision, as mentioned by Márton Gyöngyösi and Erzsébet Schmuck, the Government is called upon to take a firm and consistent position in the decision-making and preparation of the decision-making activities of the institutions of the European Union with the participation of the governments of the Member States, that the overall economic and trade agreement between the European Union and Canada, i.e. CETA, like the transatlantic trade and investment partnership between the European Union and the United States of America or the free trade agreement for services, constitutes a mixed international agreement, which requires ratification procedures in each Member State in accordance with its own constitutional rules. Several of them pointed out that the wording of CETA states that, if the provisional application of the Convention is completed and does not enter into force, a claim may be made under the provisions of the Convention in any case during provisional application on the basis of the rules and procedures of the Convention. Therefore, the obligation to compensate may affect Hungary even if Hungary does not ratify CETA as a convention. In the following amendment, point 2 of the proposal for a decision would be affected. According to this, the Parliament calls on the Government not to support the establishment of a free trade agreement which does not guarantee, at the same time as further reducing and abolishing customs duties, the removal of non-tariff barriers to trade that do not substantially reduce, undermine or undermine the level of protection of the European Union and Hungary serving the common good, including the quality of products, services, health, protection of workers' rights, consumer protection, environmental protection, and the regulation of public services. It contains an institutional solution that grants any third country the right of expression before the bodies or Member States of the European Union in its legislation. It does not preclude the use of any form of dispute settlement between the investor and the host nation state between stable constitutional law states. Furthermore, it does not ensure effective regulation of adverse effects of growth in trade, in particular pollution of transport, at the same time as negotiations. [[14.10]] It does not ensure consistency with the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Finally, the Parliament draws the attention of the government not to support the establishment of a free trade agreement where, during its negotiations, the broad publicity of negotiations is not constantly guaranteed, and the provision of information and participation opportunities for society is not ensured. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to add a new point to the proposal for a resolution tabled by Mr Schiffer, according to which the Parliament calls on the Government to refer to the European Court of Justice, asking the Court of Justice's opinion to clarify the issue of the legality of the free trade agreement between the EU and the United States and of the investor-state dispute settlement mechanism, which is part of the trade agreement for similar ratification between the EU and Canada, and of the recently proposed investment court system, on the basis of European law. Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps these amendments can also create the guarantee conditions that have been formulated here in most of the comments. And here I would also like to thank the National Sustainable Development Council chaired by Mr Speaker for their willingness to contribute to the drafting of these proposals, and to the joint collaboration of experts on scientific work, the various advocacy organisations with which they helped the NFFT itself to formulate these proposals for everyone, including the Parliament and, of course, the Hungarian Government. Thank you very much for your kind attention.
u2016-05-24-84	Thank you, Congressman. I salute my fellow Members. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, MSZP. You have the floor, Mr. Notary.
u2016-05-24-85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like to address two issues. One is usually taken because Sallai R. Benedek could not place how and how the Hungarian Socialist Party would think about this issue. Look, my fellow Member, basically by not imagining falling back on certain things, at least in my personal judgment. So it is not a question of whether the GMO exemption is evident, but it is certainly in my view that, based on my knowledge today, it is in question whether, for example, safety factors in relation to environmental issues are strong or even stronger than they are today in the context of the European framework. Or, in the same way, the existence of guarantees with regard to food safety issues, whether their potential is tangible. But there is much more to talk about here, on issues of the world of work, on labour law, on safety at work. And about what such a regulatory system brings, brings or does not bring jobs, the strengthening of the economy or not, if it brings, what is the consequence of it, whether it is possible to maintain that welfare system, not what the government has been doing for six years, but in general, what we call it or not. So, I think all these questions can be considered as interrelated issues. In my personal judgment, profit does not override, override human normal living space, override aspects that influence or surround our daily lives that lay the foundations for future security. However, I do not think that this issue is a question, but it is a question of whether it is possible to build a regulatory system for which an increase in profits can occur, but not only in relation to multinational companies, but also in relation to working people. Profit can not only be concentrated, obviously we interpret it as saying it at first, but I also think it may be important to create a surplus for the working person. But creating any surplus, or I believe that creating a surplus in this respect, is nothing if, on the other hand, losses that risk future security are to be accounted for. So, these questions should be clarified. Now, on these issues, I do not think there are any exact governmental attitudes, and this is my biggest problem with the story, that I do not see how and how the attitude of the government, the parliamentary majority, is expressed. So here's the basic problem. Then it would be possible to relate to it and not just to formulate our own position. The other thing I would like to say briefly is that the Hungarian economy is export-oriented. Undoubtedly, it is export-oriented, and it has already been mentioned in the House's walls, a country with export activities that is parallel to a moderate import. Technically, I have to say, the country is not very productive in this regard. In addition, if we look at, say, the events of the last decade, we can see that, for example, Hungary's export activity in the 2010 base situation will not increase in 2014 or 15 but there was a growing trend between 2004 and, say, 2010, there is a decline. While, for example, for the Visegrad countries, if we look at the Poles, if we look at the Czechs and Slovaks, there is an increasing export activity. But to get out of the Visegrád Four, there was a 200 percent increase for Romanians. What I am trying to show you is that when Péter Szijjártó or other fellow Members talk about this, they are talking about his backside, not exactly showing the real picture in this regard, because we are just losing the story in recent years, as Hungary's competitiveness position has not increased, but has decreased. [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] But I do not want to go in this direction, I did this as a confirmation of what Peter Szijjártó said. So, my summary sentence is that I personally think about this matter in the sense that there is or could be a place for thinking about free trade that doesn't put the safety of people living their daily lives at risk, very simply. It can be explained on a wider scale, but that's the whole point of the story. We have a responsibility, not only for today, but also for tomorrow, to what kind of world we are creating for future generations. In this sense, I understand the doubts that András Schiffer raises in the series, and I do not see the answers from the government side in terms of how he intends to minimise doubts and how he intends to implement the negotiation processes in this respect. That is all I wanted to add to the story. And once again, as the position of the Hungarian Socialist Party, I can say with a calm spirit that obviously it is not possible to create situations that would lead to a step backwards in relation to the issues already mentioned, in relation to environmental, food safety and the world of work. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-24-86	Thank you, Mr. Notary. I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, head of the group.
u2016-05-24-87	Thank you, Mr. President. On the one hand, I would like to respond to my fellow Member Benchik - thank you very much for your contribution. I would, of course, support the proposals of NFFT, the question is whether the Fidesz fraction supports it, even if it becomes a fidesz author of the proposal. I would also recommend one thing to my fellow Member Benchik for consideration, this is the last point, so that we call on the Government to request a resolution from Strasbourg. The fact is that the European Commission already has such an action in relation to Singapore. The other is that I think that the position is a little bit harder than that, if we clearly state that Hungary insists that in any such free trade agreement, which has a horizontal impact on the decision-making competences of the Hungarian Parliament, we stick to the mixed powers, we insist that national state powers cannot be circumvented. [[14.20]] In my view, this is a tougher wish than asking for a resolution from one of the European forums, while, once again, European bureaucracy has asked for such a resolution for a reason, and I am not necessarily convinced that this will end well. But what you have said, in particular regarding the temporary entry into force and the humiliating encryption of negotiations, I fully agree with them, and on behalf of myself and my faction, I can say that we naturally support this, hopefully your faction will do the same. And what my fellow Member Gúr said, I have tried very hard to follow, and I do not say that this has always been crystal clear. So, the thing is, this is a pretty black-and-white hand. That's pretty black and white. Today, outside the post-communist area, it is precisely the left-wing movements in the world that are consistently taking action against exploitation and the pressure of global large companies. It is precisely the left-wing movements - outside of Eastern Europe, the post-communist region - that make it clear that they do not want the neoliberal world order. And you, true to the policy that you have represented in the government, say that free trade is in itself fine. I think it's a clean speech. [[Nándor Gúr: That's what you say!]] This is how the MEPs voted, the people of the People's Party and the caviar left voted unanimously and almost unanimously in the European Parliament in favour of the continuation of the TTIP negotiations, followed by Nándor Gúr. [[Nándor Gúr: You just say what you think, don't speak in my name.]] Let it be clear: Article 21 is amended as follows: There is no need for such free trade pacts, as my fellow Member Sallai said, these free trade pacts are part of the 21st century. In the 18th century, they only strengthen exploitation, and they benefit giant companies and some great powers. Hungary is the loser of this, and Hungary is permanently cemented into a position where we are extremely dependent on the German automotive industry. And to answer my fellow Members, I do not think that export addiction is a natural law of Hungary. We should work precisely to eliminate this extreme exposure and export dependency of Hungary. My fellow Member Gúr may have only understood from the story that in the last six years he thinks the figures are not good - I understand that he can only position himself to what the government is saying - and I think that this course has been put together together in the last 25 years, that Hungary is an extremely export-dependent country, and that should be changed if not again, after 2018. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-24-88	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. I give the floor to Secretary of State László Szabó.
u2016-05-24-89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to make some mistakes here, one or two words about export exposure. Hungary is a small to medium-sized country in the world economy, and I do not know a successful small to medium-sized country that does not try to be as successful as possible through its exports. Since our market is very closed and small, the most successful Hungarian companies do export because they cannot continue to grow on the Hungarian market. In order for the economy to grow, in order to create as many Hungarian jobs as possible, in order to create as much added value as possible in the country, we do need to increase our exports, and I agree with the group leader that we really need to work very hard to make as little imports as possible in order to create this export, so that Hungarian added value will increase. So that's really the way to go. I would just like to say to Mr Nándor Gúr that he probably held the book backwards when he analysed these statistics. Hungarian exports were never so successful, Hungarian exports were over EUR 90 billion last year, and our foreign trade surplus was over EUR 8 billion last year. It's never been like this in Hungary. So the fact that Hungarian export performance would be reduced, I do not think it is true. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-24-90	Thank you, Secretary of State Szabo. In the next 15 minutes' time frame, Mrs Bernadett Wind, LMP.
u2016-05-24-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, When we were out here in Kossuth Square and we were visiting the protests of civilians, you must have seen it, too, if not elsewhere, in the news, my fellow members of the government, because you were not there that a great Trojan horse was blown up there, and the Trojan horse is a great symbol of the Euroatlantic Free Trade Convention, because TTIP, which we have been talking about for hours in the Hungarian Parliament, is not at all what it looks like, and this is the first problem with it. If I am to put it very simply, I must say that this free trade agreement or agreement should not be at all, because it is practically imposed on European citizens, but I also think that it is the American citizens, because if someone thought that the American citizens would be happy about this whole story without further ado, they are wrong; I listened to an expert debate about it just yesterday. I think that it is typically a debate and a treaty that is nothing but that there are strong politicians, behind whom there are even stronger companies that bring together a treaty that they benefit from and everyone else to adapt. We don't even know exactly what's in this agreement because they're classified. Much has been said that these are virtually barely known in a secret room for few people. And we know very little about what the consequences will be, but the worrying signs are coming. Let's go back in time for a while. It was 94 when NAFTA was concluded, it was the agreement between the US, Canada and Mexico, and there were very similar debates on this issue at the time, and Mexico was promised that it would benefit very much from this agreement. Now, basically, we see that this convention entered into force in 94 and that in 20 years Mexico could not be caught up, the country's 2012 poverty rate is the same as 1994, unemployment in 2013 is higher than in 94, and otherwise, in a study, they also show that if the economic growth rate before the eighties had been continued in the next period and it had remained between 94 and 2012, Mexico would be a high-income country. This is interesting because there is this argument that free trade, as such, benefits. That's not true at all. Scientific facts are more about those on the periphery staying there. This stunning has been going on for decades now, and no matter how many issues we're talking about - it could be CETA, NAFTA, TTIP, anything - virtually politicians are blowing the exact same music. The May Other Politics has asked that this convention be a topic here in the Hungarian Parliament, because we feel it is refreshing to listen to arguments that are not a completely failed XX. They are based on the worldview of the century, but politicians are talking about issues that basically put Hungary at a dead end as a whole European Union, and will also cause a lot of American citizens a major pain, but unemployment, that's for sure. Anyway, let's go a little deeper in this story, because CETA and TTIP are not just a free trade agreement. In free trade agreements, it is a common story that customs duties are mutually reduced and thus facilitate market access for each other. These conventions, CETA and TTIP are also concerned with regulatory harmonisation, the privatization of the provision of law, and issues affecting intellectual rights. So if someone even believes in free trade agreements and thinks that if we talk about TTIP, then they can convince us that this is a good one, because this is a free trade agreement for that person or for that organisation I can tell you to look at how much more this TTIP actually is than a net free trade agreement. A May Other is the fundamental position of the Politics on these issues, that if there is a community, then this community must own natural resources, and a national government should never, under any circumstances, be in a position to let a company or group of companies decide. The national government must be so strong in such a situation that it can guarantee the safety of each of its citizens. And I have the bad news for you that European national governments are already not in this situation. I have just spoken in two minutes and I have said that the fact that the negotiations on the Free Trade Agreement are going on is practically a bad influence on the health of European citizens. [[14.30]] I have set an example of the brutal situation in which substances harmful to the hormonal system are still on the market in the European Community because of the leak of leaves, which say that the Commission is concerned that if they are now banned, it will jeopardise the future of the transatlantic convention. This is very important because you... and I have been looking forward to this day to seeing how people think about this issue. What I see is that Fidesz has now taken up a position that is all right, let the Hungarian Parliament talk about it, whether they vote on it, so basically something good can come from this, and let us understand that Hungary is a small, open country, and we need exports, and we need to look at this opportunity. That's the commercial view that can't be applied here. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we already have fundamental rights, our right to health, because these negotiations are going. I think that the situation is even worse than what I have just outlined, because such an TTIP or even a CETA is basically a crisis of democracy, because it is here that the states are no longer making decisions of their own volition and not representing their citizens, but are following the interests of virtually multinational companies because they are delivering themselves and their citizens to these company interests. I really like science fiction movies, and my old fear is that we're gonna grow into a world where there are huge multinational companies that employ people for hunger, and they decide where the world goes on. If someone likes this genre, he knows this utopia, and that's exactly what he discovers in these conventions. And then let me give you a few examples of how not only science fiction is involved here, but how realistic this infiltrating story is for the future. Ask Canada, there has been a lot of talk here about the courts chosen to operate, and basically a nation state, if you want to protect your citizens, you can be sued by a multinational, and then an arbitration court will decide who is right, the country or the multinational. I would like to tell you now that Canada, for example, has been in a completely absurd situation with NAFTA, the NAFTA mentioned here. In 89, Canada, quite rightly, signed the Basel Convention on the management and transport of hazardous waste, and in order to comply with this international agreement, the Canadian Minister for the Environment prohibited the export of a certain substance in a transitional regulation. Now, this is against a company's business interests, and it's filed a lawsuit against the Canadian state, and I'm looking at Canada being ordered to pay six million Canadian dollars for hurting the company's business interests. But there is also an absurd example: in 2007, Canada lost again, because it wanted to obtain some of the products used in the oil extraction from local producers, and this was in the interests of ExxonMobil. Oops, they paid a lot of money. Why is that? Because they wanted to favour local producers, and a multinational company did not like this. But one of the most brutal examples was observed in Mexico, where they noticed that there was a high-sugar syrup that contributed to making the Mexican people fat and wanted the Mexican government to enjoy better health for Mexican citizens, and therefore wanted to regulate the marketing of a certain syrup in Mexico. Mexico lost a lawsuit, the company sued Mexico, Mexico lost a lawsuit, the company won 72 million euros from Mexico. So, I think that if we look at these stories and see them, it's quite clear that the countries will have zero, virtually zero interests in relation to such huge groups of companies if you go on the road. I remember Mr Zsolt Németh's speech, he is a bit like this, I don't know, dreaming about the TTIP world - well, this is the TTIP world, that is what we are talking about. I think that a government that has put national sovereignty on its flag and talked to Hungarian citizens about respect for the Hungarians and talks about the need to strengthen the ability to create national capital cannot send the minister or the secretary of state in here and say that we are a small, open economy, and that is why we should go on and negotiate. In your position, there is a correct attitude if you say that Hungary does not give you the authority to mess with our health, our jobs and everything else we have. Let me address a criticism here, beyond the government, to many other European actors, because it is necessary to see that there is still a problem in the system. Commissioner for Trade Cecilia Malmström responded to Greenpeace when documents leaked - a little bit more about what leaked and what turned out to be a storm in a glass. This is the Commissioner for Trade, who said that he did not receive his mandate from the European people. But here are the Germans, for example. The spokesperson of the German Government responded that Germany has a fundamental interest in free trade in the transatlantic region and that the negotiations between the EU and the United States on the Free Trade Area Treaty should be concluded as soon as possible. During the same period, the US Government did not respond substantially, and the Hungarian Government did not speak on this issue either. What's leaking? Technically, Greenpeace managed to get some of those materials out because... I'm sorry, really, our ancient European achievement here is transparency. What we need to see, however, is that this ancient European tradition is being crushed in the course of negotiations, and I cannot call it anything else: the fundamental idea of the European Union as a whole, transparency as such, is practically not represented anywhere in the context of the entire Convention. Well, luckily, there are still civilians who don't care about themselves or their position or anything, and they're not in anyone's pockets, and they leaked materials. We know from these leaks that the precautionary principle would be removed. What is this precautionary principle? Here in Europe, we are used to seeing first whether a substance is harmful to health and then to putting it on the market. In America, they do this the other way around: you can get to the market, and then you can prove that something's wrong. Well, that's what's at home. This is the reverse of what is in the interest of European citizens. If the civilians do not get this document, the Hungarian Parliament cannot talk about it, because neither the Minister nor anyone from the Hungarian Government came to us and said that we find it outrageous to force such a document on Hungary, to send a message to Brussels, to respect the Hungarians and the rest, and we do not support the TTIP. And even though the Minister knows what's going on, you're here to send a message to Washington. You don't have to send a message, just go over there and say thank you, Hungary doesn't want any of this. This is the only correct attitude on the part of the Hungarian government. But there was something else in this document. Technically, it was clear that civilians had a minimal opportunity to look into the negotiations, but we also learned that the large industry was massively there and influenced. Recently, in this report, the EU mentions virtually one-off, minimal say on the part of the large industry - now in these leaked documents, in many places, it is openly pointing out that large companies have been involved in the negotiations and that there is a great need for further consultation with them. So it's basically a leak or leak, which in itself should result in you stopping any kind of cooperation here. One thing I would like to make clear to you is that it is not entirely clear to me what the point of negotiation will be when you say that there is no more. I think it is now, so it is now when it should be said that the Hungarian government is not involved in this. But if you still have doubts, then take it into your hands, the report on the reduction of European farmers, the dangers of TTIP for European farmers, and in this you can clearly describe the fact that the contribution of European agriculture to EU GDP can be reduced by almost 1 percent, i.e. 0.8 percent, but the Americans win almost 2 percent. This means that we will transfer a net commercial profit of EUR 4 billion from here to there, we will give it up and they will get it. I would like to highlight one thing because I think that Hungary... - so I also deeply agree with Róbert Sallai Benedek that Hungary is basically an agricultural country, and that we could make a great deal of it out of it if we finally had a suitable government, and according to the report, the entire agricultural sectors, such as grazing cattle farming, would be threatened by the impact of the convention. According to forecasts by the US Department of Agriculture, take-over prices paid to European farmers will decrease in all food categories. And what's really interesting about this is that the U.S. Department of Agriculture is actually saying the same thing to you at the end of the century, who predicted the competitive disadvantage of cut meat, corn, low-grade wines in the event that TTIP comes into force. If you don't believe me, believe the century's end, it's written out clearly, it's written down by the Americans, it's written down by civilians. The question is, why do you still want to negotiate? [[14.40]]
u2016-05-24-92	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Two-minute contributions will be made; first, Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, LMP.
u2016-05-24-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, First of all, as I have forgotten in my speech, I would like to thank my fellow members in favour of the Government for allowing the debate on this proposal for a resolution. This way, in hindsight, by joining my fellow factions, thank you. I also wanted to thank Mr János Bencsik for sharing the valuable position of the National Sustainable Development Council with the Parliament, as he drew attention to a number of points which, I think, can help the issue that we represent forward-lookingly. This has already expanded the circle, because not only Jobbik, LMP, Gábor Fodor, but also László Kövér and the Sustainable Development Council. Please excuse me, my fellow Member, Nándor Gúr, for he has addressed to me that I have not seen this clearly and clearly in the case of the MSZP. I basically believe that you are developing, and although your representatives have made a mistake in the European Union, I was hoping that perhaps the faction here would remedy this. Let me quote Huntington, a left-wing economic scientist, from the clash of Civilizations, a quote that might be interesting for the left. According to the people of globalisation, every state benefits from the process, but the facts do not show this. The differences between developed and underdeveloped countries have increased in recent decades. The negative effects of globalisation are mostly in the area of social well-being and security. Global processes have marked the rise in international and intra-national inequalities, increasing poverty. The poorer layers become excluded, having more difficulty in accessing the achievements of economic and technological development. Unemployment appears, small businesses are ruined in competition with multinational companies. The social safety net is torn apart, welfare institutions disappear or their maintenance becomes increasingly difficult. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I think that a party with left-wing values should have a strong position against such a globalisation process, since the Free Trade Agreement is one of the biggest defenses of [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] a neoliberal market economy which jeopardises the values which they are supposed to represent. Excuse me, and thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-05-24-94	Thank you, Congressman. The next two-minute speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr Márton Gyöngyösi.
u2016-05-24-95	Thank you, Mr. President. I would first of all argue with the Secretary of State about the benefits of an export-driven economy. I do not believe that Mr Secretary of State could list one successful country which based its future solely on export management and attracting foreign capital. We believe that conditions for healthy competition should be created, domestic capitalists should be given opportunities, national capital formation should be possible through protective duties, through the support of domestic operators. Each successful country has based its economic development in this way, not in the same way as in the context of the pacts at the time of the regime change between parties such as Fidesz and the MSZP. No wonder they're about the same rock on this issue. The responsibility lies with you. Even if we reject and vote off TTIP and all free trade agreements, the conditions are given and the Hungarian economy is based on a poor structure. So if we vote against TTIP, CETA, against all other treaties, it is very right, but it still has the wrong and wrong structure of the Hungarian economy. As to the comments of my fellow Member Richard Hörcsik: let us not be lawyers. We don't think there's time, we didn't run ahead, and I'm willing to risk being in the last hour, and we're past that. It's a parliamentary resolution proposal. It's not a law, it's not a law, it's not a law, it's not a law, it's not a law, it's not a law. This is a parliamentary decision proposal, in which the Hungarian Parliament, the body most embodying popular sovereignty, calls on the government to act in defence of national sovereignty and defend Hungarian national sovereignty. That's it, there's no need for lawyers at this stage. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-05-24-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next two-minute comment on behalf of the MSZP Group is Mr Nándor Gúr.
u2016-05-24-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Two simple thoughts. Mr. Secretary, just for the record, who's holding the book backwards, I suggest you do a little digging around on Eurostat. Then it becomes clear and clear to you what I am holding here in my hand, and what I was just talking about is the evolution of the share of world trade exports. This shows that, for example, if we look at the 2014 situation and consider it as a base situation, as I said earlier, that 100 percent, then today we are below this level, while, for example, the Romanians, starting from the same 100 percent, are above 200 per cent, but the Poles are above 140 per cent. So you can make different comparisons than what I'm talking about, and you can say how wonderful the picture is, but if you want to deny the comparison that I'm talking about, then bring statistical data to it, be nice. That's part of the story. You know, the other big problem is that, in a sense, the structure of Hungarian exports also looks bad, because instead of producing a lot of more expensive or better quality products, cheaper and more massier products are produced instead. Obviously, this is also the cause of the development of this process. In addition, I do not think it is right in itself to link only the issues of free trade and exploitation. Free trade is not just and only what brings the issue of exploitation to life. Just think, my fellow Member, whether it is exploitation that is being done in this country today, regardless of free trade, for example, by companies that take out billions of dividends and distribute a fraction of them in wages, such as the employment of 100-200 people. [[Dr. István Józsa: Lőrinc Mészáros!]] Yeah, yeah, that's exploitation. Today, the Hungarian Socialist Party is fighting against this. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-05-24-98	Thank you, Mr. Notary. For two minutes, Congressman Richard Hörcsik will have the floor.
u2016-05-24-99	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi claims that we are late. Let me ask you what it's compared to. I don't know if the negotiations were halfway through, and half of the files opened haven't been discussed yet. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: CETA is closed!]] I am talking about TTIP, my honourable fellow Member. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: The resolution is not about that! Dr. Wind Bernadett: But that's not what the resolution is about! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Another question that my fellow Member, Mr Bernadett Szél, asked when the moment would come when the Hungarian party would have to stand up from the negotiating table and leave it there, saying thank you very much. There's a philosophical difference, I feel, because you're saying this is the moment, we have the right information to do that. However, the Hungarian government says that we have to cross a bridge when we get there, that is to say, the continuation of negotiations - sorry - does not mean that we accept it. Let's go through this, finish the trial, and then we can really consider it. [[István Apáti: Smear!]] whether or not it meets Hungarian interests. It's a philosophical question. [[István Apáti: Threat!]] I would like to mention to my colleague in Gyöngyös that there is no question of the commitment of the Hungarian Government [[István Apáti: In what direction?]] on national sovereignty. When we say this, that's another question. I believe that the appropriate responsible government position is that if you are at the negotiating table, we will participate in it and make allies for it. [[István Apáti: If Viktor permits it!]] We're trying to change it. [[György Szilágyi: If Viktor allows it, then!]] not only ourselves, but also the other EU Member States. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-24-100	Thank you very much. I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. If you wish to speak, Mr Schiffer, the rapporteur [[Dr. András Schiffer: Yes.]] I'll give you the floor. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Thank you very much.]] You have the floor.
u2016-05-24-101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I think it is very good that we have had a surprisingly long and meaningful parliamentary debate on this issue in this term. I continue to believe that what we have been discussing is a value dispute. Even if the technocrats continue to try to make these simple professional issues, for which we still have to ask scientists and economists. Yes, it is a value debate, because it is about the future we wish for this nation, what we wish for Hungary and what we wish for the world. [[14.50]] Yes, my fellow Member of Gyöngyösi was right to say that we are in the last hour. We are in the last hour, because the Canadian Convention is about to be ratified, the European Commission has taken steps to say, in the context of the Singapore Convention, that national parliaments can be bypassed, and CETA, the Canadian Convention, which is about to be ratified, is the test facility for all others, including TTIP. When we take our position on TTIP itself and on free trade agreements at all, we obviously have to start by saying, on the one hand, what is Hungary's situation today and what is today's national strategic interest in Hungary. Yes, here, on this issue, there was also a separation of XX. and Article 21 (2) (a) Today's position in the debate, because I believe that the LMP believes that, yes, Hungary's heavy burden is that the Hungarian national economy is so extremely dependent on exports, and, yes, we believe that the examples of the past 50-60 years show that - contrary to what you have just said, with great respect, Mr State Secretary - those countries were able to rise, for example, I am thinking of South Korea, which first strengthened their domestic capital building capacity, where appropriate by their own intellectual achievement, created products that followed by the wonder of the world. After the change of regime, Hungary entered a reverse course: it immediately opened up its national economy, allowed its manufacturing industry to be bulldozed by various multinational corporations, and we are now at the point where domestic capital-building capacity - look at the investment rate of the domestic SME sector, which converges to virtually zero! - extremely low. On the one hand, we must approach these free trade agreements from the position that it is the future for Hungary, whether it is the path of ascension, if it is dependent on a thousand lines of German automotive companies, foreign companies are inventing assembly plants in Hungary at all. The position of the LMP is definitely not so, and otherwise, if the Hungarian government's policy is to protect sovereignty, then the pro-government representatives cannot say anything else, because the more vulnerable a country is, the more its national economy depends on foreign states and large foreign companies, whether I think about Eastern energy relations or major Western automotive investors. The other thing we have to base on is the XXI. The nature of free trade agreements of the century, and I have just tried to answer my fellow Member Hörcsik precisely that the nature of these free trade agreements includes the view that Parliaments, national parliaments, are to be avoided. We have also heard Commissioner Cecilia Malmström say that he is not the person elected by the people of Europe; after that, all I have to ask is when we demand that Cecilia Malmström leave immediately. Because it should be quite clear: it is a danger to the whole of the European Union if, on behalf of the European Union, a Commissioner who proudly proclaims that he is not responsible for the interests of the European people and is not accountable to the European people. Then I ask - poetic question - who then? Then who would benefit from such an EU Commissioner? One word, like a hundred, must take a clear and clear position in the Hungarian Parliament, that either a pre-confirmation agreement, such as CETA, or TTIP written on the same sheet music, where negotiations are still taking place, or even the Service Trade Agreement, which is still in the previous phase, we can be sure of one thing regarding TISA: we do not allow national parliaments to be avoided - but then there is no room for misconception or smearing. The other thing that my fellow Member Bencsik rightly pointed out is that Hungary also wants to resist the institution of temporary entry into force. That is why I would not consider it devilish if, at the next EU summit, the Hungarian Prime Minister made it clear that Hungary was not interested in these free trade pacts, and that Hungary would also have to bear in mind that Hungary would veto all free trade agreements which represent a step backwards from the level of environmental protection, health protection, food safety and consumer protection already achieved in Europe. Today, the XXI. In the century, the real battle, the real value dispute, is not the traditional XX. It consists of centuries of left-right debates. It's a story about whether we're giving in to the profit hunger of giant companies, whether we're letting the profit hunger of giant companies eat up the world. And in answer to my fellow Member, Mr Gur, yes, the 21st edition of the report. In the century, free trade itself strengthens exploitation. It must be made clear - perhaps not useless for a party that calls itself left-wing - that exploitation is primarily global in the global capitalism era, and especially for global large companies. Everyone else, the otherwise easily bought corrupt governments, are also playing under their control. If a movement is, by the way, if a party considers itself left-wing, then it must resist any free trade policy. CHAPTER XXI In the 20th century, when these negotiations no longer concern the reduction of customs duties, but about the destruction of health, environmental, consumer protection rules, i.e. the protection of people and natural resources, there is no good free trade, as the most popular American presidential candidate Bernie Sanders said. Therefore, I would ask the Honourable Parliament to heed the words and amendments made by our fellow Member, János Bencsik, to supplement this proposal for a resolution, where appropriate, and to thank everyone for the substantive debate. Thank you.
u2016-05-24-102	Thank you very much for your speech. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 2015 CXLIII on public procurement. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Presentation by MEPs János Lázár and Roland Mengyi Fidesz T/10632. The information document of the State Audit Office is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Congressman Roland of Mengyi, the author of the item on the agenda.
u2016-05-24-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We have tabled a bill with Minister János Lázár to facilitate access to European Union funds for domestic businesses. Obviously, the proposal also aims at minor amendments to the public procurement law, reflecting on other experience already from practice. The draft law essentially aims to amend two areas of competition law infringement and the public procurement obligation related to subsidies above HUF 25 million. In accordance with the current rules on competition law infringements identified as non-procurement grounds, an economic operator whose infringement or cartel is definitively established by a Hungarian or a foreign authority or a court may not participate in a public procurement procedure with an EU threshold for three years and has imposed a fine. Contracting entities are obliged to enforce this prohibition by means of a public procurement procedure with a Union threshold, but may enforce it in a procedure with a lower value. The proposal amends this regulation by transferring the exclusion from the mandatory exclusion grounds to the so-called optional exclusion grounds, i.e. the contracting authority will not be obliged to exclude the economic operators concerned from all procedures above the EU threshold, but it may continue to do so, so that contracting entities can decide in each procurement procedure whether or not to allow these operators to participate as tenderers, subcontractors. In the 2014 European Union Public Procurement Directive, the grounds for refusal concerning the cartel are also among the optional grounds for exclusion, so the amendment is in line with this directive. [[15.00]] For example, ladies and gentlemen, maintaining the existing legal provision in the banking sector would result in the fact that if a contracting authority wished to use a financial intermediary by means of public procurement, it would not be possible to choose because of the extensive sanctions imposed by the Hungarian Competition Authority against banks. The other area, which is amended by the proposal, is the public procurement obligation related to subsidies above HUF 25 million. Here, the current legislation states that, with the exceptions listed in the law, all persons and organisations, the purchase of which is directly supported by at least HUF 25 million, are subject to a public procurement obligation, even if this would not otherwise be considered as contracting entities under the Public Procurement Act. In such cases, it is also necessary to examine whether public procurement is compulsory under the other rules for a given contract, and it is important that there is no need to carry out public procurement even if the aid in question falls within one of the exceptions listed in the law. This rule aims at transparency, publicity and effective enforcement of market competition in order to avoid efficient and responsible public spending and possible overpriced. This is much stricter than our EU directive obligation. The current amendment clarifies the above rule and states that the relevant provision of the Public Procurement Act applies only to grants, but not to so-called repayable grants or so-called combined financial instruments. The rules concerned initially aim to ensure that, in the case of procurement through public or European Union support, the undertakings receiving the aid carry out their procurement at an appropriate price and quality as a result of the procurement procedures, avoiding, inter alia, over-pricing. This risk is much lower for the aid to be recovered and for financial instruments, since it is in the fundamental interest of the undertakings receiving financial instruments to obtain it at the right price and quality, as the loan repayment will therefore be less burdensome for them in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, In the case of financial instruments, a purchase is typically made from a loan paid by a financial institution, which must be repaid to the final beneficiary during a specified period of time. Under EU State aid rules, the aid content of loans and guarantees is given by the amount by which the economic operator obtains more favourable access to the scheme than market conditions. In this case, the loan to be recovered also contains a certain amount of aid. The further clarification of this rule therefore determines the question of interpretation that such a combined financial instrument would not fall within the scope of aid which would, where appropriate, trigger a public procurement obligation. Dear House, The Hungarian State has to deliver 1000 billion European Union funds to businesses. This must be done through financial intermediaries, from which the Hungarian banking sector cannot be missed. It is therefore important to open the possibility of accessing European Union funds in thousands of branches. If you agree with these amendments, please support them. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-24-104	Thank you, Congressman Mengyi Roland. I will ask if you wish to speak on behalf of the government, Mr Nándor Csepreghy. It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-05-24-105	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The Government agrees with the support of both proposals and calls on Parliament to support both proposals for two reasons. On the one hand, as you mentioned in your introduction, the allocation of EU funds - and I am talking here basically about the reimbursable resources, not the non-refundable resources - which are close to HUF 1000 billion in the 2014-2020 development period, cannot be imagined without the substantial contribution of the Hungarian banking sector. The Hungarian banking sector can participate in this whole story if we really open the door to as many financial market players in Hungary as possible, whether they are domestic or foreign-owned financial actors, to carry out mediation activities. However, a 2012 Competition Authority decision which fined the cross-border provision of information between banks as an essentially competitive factor would make this case impossible. That is why we are asking for nothing else today in this proposal, and there is no other reason why the government is in favour of this proposal than that the European Union rule, which, according to the 2014 procurement directive, states that if a person has been condemned for this type of irregularity, it can be optionally excluded from the procurement procedure for the contracting authority. However, where this is not justified and it is not justified here because it would, on the one hand, eliminate competition in this area in essence, yes, it is possible for the contracting authority to apply the possibility that, if these potential tenderers have paid the fine they have received and, if they provide the State with adequate guarantees that this irregularity has not been committed again, they may participate in this process with appropriate controls. On the one hand, the Government can support this and we are also proposing to Parliament to adopt this amendment. The second issue is a certain reduction of public procurement measures in terms of a threshold of HUF 25 million. This is a debate that was on the agenda at the end of last year. At the time, we were talking to Jobbik's representative, Mr Apáti, about another question regarding agricultural production, whether public procurement in the agricultural sector is justified in the case of 25 million HUF purchases. At the time, I told you, Mr President, standing here, that there might be a reason for us to look at whether we are abolishing the public procurement obligation or whether we are raising the public procurement threshold, so at a higher threshold, we are applying this rule in the case of higher aid intensities. I think that even with this amendment, which is being tabled by the Member and Minister, we are not at this level, but we are taking a step closer in this direction, and that is why the government may consider the exemption from public procurement to be justified where reimbursable resources are being used in the case of these proposals. And why is that? One of the key aspects of the public procurement institution, not the only one, not the exclusive one, but one of the fundamental aspects is that the cost to be paid to either a public operator or a market operator, with public funds in the background, should be minimised, so that much more can be purchased at the expense of a unit of resources. But when we talk about reimbursable resources, all we talk about is the side of an applicant, an entrepreneur, is an interest-free loan. Where appropriate, the price reduction factor is essentially that the applicant's well-conceived interest is that he wants to pay as little as possible for the particular product or service. Therefore, it will not be the public procurement institution that forces it to do so, but its well-conceived market logic in that it will have to repay a much smaller amount of funds with less repayment. The government can therefore relax in this respect, give in to its position in 2015, and support this amendment. Thank you, Congressman. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-24-106	Thank you, Secretary of State Csepreghy. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman István Józsa, the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2016-05-24-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It's an interesting presentation, it seems a little bit like if you want to sew the coat against the button, because you can see a well-stained button, you may not even be able to stop the needle and thread, but you want to make the whole jacket look like a suit. So the circumstances of the submission are also unusual in the first place, because it is nice that Congressman Roland Mengyi has joined this proposal, which was originally submitted by Minister János Lázár as an individual representative, so that is, to say, unusual. So he is responsible for the use of EU funds, I don't know, 96 departments, 147 Deputy State Secretary working under it, and then, as an individual representative, it is not the government itself who is submitting such a, it may be a bit of a blaming presentation, because it is a little bit inconsistent, or at least not very elegant. [[15.10]] So, according to the proposal submitted as an individual representative, it would not be compulsory to exclude from public procurement undertakings which have been definitively condemned in a competition monitoring procedure. Here is a specific case, Mr Secretary of State, which is the economic competition authority's condemnation resulting from the cross-border reporting of banks. It is understandable that they want to remedy this in some way, because it was a controversial banking instrument. When it was launched, it probably wasn't meant to be, probably for such a cost-cutting purpose, not for a cartel. On the other hand, on the basis of a more detailed investigation in line with European competition law, the Economic Competition Authority has concluded that this is an act which is contrary to competition law. So it is understandable that, given that this was a systemic operation of the Hungarian banks, it has a great deal to do with it, so we need to find a way to ensure that the financial intermediary system is able to contribute in some way to the delivery of EU funds. Whether this is an appropriate solution, the MSZP has serious doubts about this. Because this may be the loophole through which, as an optionally managed exclusion, they may be able to allow others to enter... [[Dr. András Schiffer: Oh, no.]] [[Laughing:]] Oh, no? Yes, Chief Schiffer here has expressed his good faith [[István Apáti: More irony!]] Of course they won't let anyone else in. I'm not that good of a man. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Neither do I, nor do I!]] I fear that if such a loophole is opened, not only will the bank X concerned be able to pass through the approved list, but maybe others too. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] The one who stepped in something. That's why I told them to sew the coat against the button, and there's a saying in literature in the 19th century. In the century, everyone came out of Gogol's cloak. Well, they're tailoring this cloak to the extent of who knows what else they're going through with the scumbags. So I'm not sure that's eligible. I'd say you should think about it. It may be that if it is sufficiently narrowed down and indeed excluded where this optional exclusion can be directed precisely to the target area, it may be acceptable. But in this case, it takes a great deal of good faith to believe that this will not result in such a subjective assessment that anyone who, for some reason, has a kind and dotty past will be allowed to pass, but those who are not kind will not be allowed to pass. I would like to refer you back to a bill discussed yesterday, where in the amendment of the laws governing the individual financial intermediary system, the stock exchange supervision department of the Hungarian National Bank can examine the market reputation of companies on the stock exchange separately. So if western practice is that the reputation of a company when it comes to accessing the stock market is at all a matter of appreciation, then someone who has a final conviction doesn't realize that it's spotty, so to make a law that someone can say that they may not be so much of a dot, or that this dot is still acceptable, I feel that they are in contradiction. The President of the National Bank himself is a dot, not only with these little Japanese, Mongolian spots, red dots, but also with his dots at all. [[Noise, interruptions.]] where through the foundations he made hundreds of millions for the friendly circle and for the friendly media, so trust in the Hungarian National Bank, good reputation also suffers. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] If we allow one more rule like this... Do I have six minutes, Mr. President, or a little more? There's more?
u2016-05-24-108	There's plenty, I've just given the fellow Members a little patience.
u2016-05-24-109	Yes, Mr. Group Leader is having private conversations here, I see... [[István Apáti: Professional consultation!]]
u2016-05-24-110	Go on, Congressman, go on.
u2016-05-24-111	Now I understand, I understand, thank you very much, Mr. President. So this is a highly controversial approach. I'm saying it's not spotless, it's spotty, so think about it. The second is that public procurement should not be carried out by those who make their procurement through subsidies or so-called combined financial instruments worth at least HUF 25 million. However, this facilitation is explained by the acceleration of the use of EU aid, and the justification for the amendment of the law is that, on the basis of its practical experience since the entry into force of the new Public Procurement Act in November last year, it is necessary to clarify the provisions on procurement from the aid in respect of grants. At the same time, the price reduction or price limitation was seen by the authors or by the Government's commenter in the tolling part that the part to be recovered was a burden on the undertaking, so it is in its primary interest to lower the prices. So to him, it wasn't the money he received, like the non-refundable one, but it was with certain preferential interest rates, but it was a refundable part, and that would be a limit. It seems to me that the most real barrier would be the public. So you wanted to encrypt the foundations of the National Bank on the basis of business interest, as well as the purchases of Hungarian Electricity and public funds. The best limit would be market publicity. So there are run-off shops where you can no longer talk about the harm of business life, but you can talk about business integrity if these purchasing data are visible and comparable. So there may be life-like experience behind the slowing down of public procurement, sometimes making procurement difficult under a certain order of magnitude, but if, let's say, you associate it with a transparent solution, that if, let's say, not the specific amounts, but certain specifics should be made public, it could provide a guarantee that there might be no overpriced. Because the goal of public procurement is also to be economical, not to be overpriced, and the cleanness of the use of EU money requires that money be used at realistic favourable prices. The fact that the non-binding exclusion of companies which have committed infringements of competition law could be explained less by practical reasons is also doubtful. These practical experiences are referred to in the explanatory memorandum, without any particular detail. I understand that the legislative text cannot be so specific as to exclude banks in 2012, but, according to the law in force, it has not been able to participate in public procurement either as a contractor or as a candidate sub-contractor or as an economic operator who has committed a final and enforceable competition monitoring decision no longer than three years ago or as a result of an infringement of the law established and sanctioned in the course of the judicial review. So this is a rather serious legal consequence when such a decision becomes legal. You can't relax with a loophole like that. [[15.20]] The mandatory grounds for refusal in the amendment of the law would thus be transferred to the optional grounds for exclusion by you referring to an EU analogy, i.e. the contracting authority itself may decide on a case-by-case basis whether or not to allow such a condemned company to be involved. This means that, in some cases, it would not be a problem at all if someone was carteling, while in the case of other companies this could be an exclusion. In our view, it is not an exact legislation if this is done on the basis of subjective consideration, and the criteria for this are not limited. An interesting thing about the amendment. I would like to quote a study by the Corruption Research Centre, which reviews seven years of public procurement, in which 130,000 contracts were analysed, and it was found that now there is twice as much chance that they would steal in a noble simplicity in the public procurement procedure as the state of seven years ago, according to the statistics of that time. These are, of course, only estimates, but there are economic methods, such as price assessment, that give us the opportunity to do so. So the Corruption Research Centre found that compared to seven years ago, twice as much public money was lost in these proceedings. This is not a positive trend. While companies linked to Lajos Simicska won 73 public procurements in 2013 - that's a fact - only eight in 2015, and the question is whether they will be in 2016. It's just that it doesn't refer to the fact that it's not exactly random. I understand there's a reason why Simicska Lajos companies don't win now, and they've won a lot before. On this basis, I suggest that the individual authors withdraw this good idea and try to bring in a notified text with professionals in a government referral that addresses this problem, so that there are banks that can participate in mediation, yet there should not be a loophole that seems to be a cause for abuse. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President.
u2016-05-24-112	Thank you, Congressman Józsa. The next announced speaker was Mr Jobbik's lead speaker, Mr István Apáti.
u2016-05-24-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Mengyi said a few minutes ago that the proposal was mostly about banks. What did we read this morning at 7:35 p.m. on the Private Dog? Nothing surprising: 6 billion-dollar road maintenance cartels were discovered by the police. These companies may have been registered in Bangkok, and this may be the way the proposal concerns banks. But aside from the joke, because by the way, I'm not in a funny mood, they're making amazing stories here, they're talking about this proposal, and they're talking about everything but the point. I understand that the boss has given me this instruction, and I can, of course, understand the motivations behind actions or sentences, but professionally, I can't agree with them. I would first respond to the words of Secretary Csepreghy. Indeed, it was as he said it would be. We talked about the agricultural sector that it would be worth reviewing whether the limit of 25 million will be pushed up or, where appropriate, removed or combined with the rules of aid intensity, since Jobbik was most likely to dispute the fact that, in the case of an agricultural entrepreneur - and I am talking mainly about small business operators or medium-sized family farms or businesses - the intensity of the aid does not reach 50 per cent or 50 per cent, and at least half or more than half of the money is included in a development, of course, in addition to receiving support, the amount of the public procurement obligation is thought about. But that's not what this is about. The rules of exception from the public procurement procedure, the definition of the exception circle, the establishment of the exemption rules are, of course, indirectly, remotely related to these rules, but this is a bit of a forced parallel when we say that the Chihuahua is a dog and the Central Asian Shepherd is a dog, both dogs, but in addition, no identity or similarity can be found between them. Of course, both of them belong to the law of the Public Procurement Act, but the rules of exemption, the definition of the exception, the grounds for exclusion - because that is what this story is about - the clarification of the rules on aid, the amendment of the rules on grounds of exclusion, and the recasting of the rule on grounds of exclusion are a completely different proposal. Is it not the case, or is it not the story, that, recently, this proposal was submitted on the day after a cartel monitoring decision relating to Andy Vajna or György Vajna's new name? Didn't Papa Vajna give this kind of warning or order that dear Fidesz MEPs should do something about this situation, otherwise, for at least three years, the company will not be able to enter public procurement procedures? I'm not saying, I'm just asking whether the May 9th resolution and the May 10th filing are suspicious. It's very suspicious, you might say. What's this story about? It is a matter of noble simplicity that what has been a mandatory reason for exclusion in a procedure, so that the contracting authority could not weigh it, had to make it mandatory to include it in the exclusions, which is now classified as an optional category, which may seem to be a minor small thing for unlawful persons or for persons who are not routine in public procurements, but in fact its weight is enormous, since if I want to use the old term either as an offeror or if I want to use the old term, these operators are not allowed to participate as subcontractors of more than 10 per cent or as candidates for participation, because if this is mandatory and cannot be considered by the contracting authority, their participation in public procurement procedures cannot be automatically, if it so pleases, by virtue of the power of the law, be excluded. Thus, if the contracting authority decides, with a wink of some kind - because after the amendment it can do so - that it does not apply this exclusion, then a firm, group of companies or companies with such a severe legal disadvantage can freely participate in procurement procedures worth billions, whether EU or domestic funding. Obviously, we are talking predominantly about EU funding sources. And the stakes are huge, because we spend at least a thousand billion forints a year, or much more through public procurement channels. I do not see any reason for sound law and hardly any economic justification for granting such quasi-exemption or exemption to firms subject to a final and enforceable competition supervision sanction. After all, if the contracting authority does not choose the option of exclusion, driven by obvious intentions, it will virtually exempt these companies from the public procurement consequences, as those who could not otherwise start, so that they can start, but can not only start, but also win these procedures, can obtain works, service orders, supplies, to mention only the most important ones. Besides, they have been loosening up a lot on these rules since spring 2010, because if you think about how the rules of co-ordination or the rules related to the ban on breakdown of parts have changed, how the financial, economic or technical competence criteria have changed, we can see, at least this is the opinion of Jobbik, that compared to the previous rules, which I think are more stringent or more difficult to play, especially in the case of the rules of co-ordination, they have loosened significantly, very much. [[15.30]] In the past, these were much stricter, much less permissible, restrictive rules. They can now be used much, not only more flexiblely, but also more flexible, but also a much wider possibility of abuse; the playing of such a way of disabling reasons, which was mandatory, will now be optional, and this will open these gates wide enough. Well, here they refer to EU directives and compliance with directives. Please tell me that, if the EU directives are so important, for example, a number of better proposals have already bled out because they have said that you like them, that they are sympathetic, that they are in the interest of the economy, that they agree, but the Union does not allow them, that they are in breach of EU directives, because you have reviewed them thoroughly. Since 2010, you have never noticed this in the creation of a new public procurement law, even in the case of amendments. You never noticed that, but when Andy Vajna has a problem with one of his companies, he suddenly shows up the next day. Well, in 24 hours, someone's gonna tell me that you guys weren't listening to an important directive. How lifelike is that, quite frankly? Nothing. I understand the need to protect the indefensible, but let's face it, there are very serious concerns here. I don't want to be stuck with Andy Vajna, I could say the head of any company or group close to the government or even close to Viktor, who can see the benefits of this in the case of any economic enterprise, any type of enterprise. But you don't have to go that far, it's enough to put the term "procurement" in the search engine this morning. The result of the search was 52 results, only a few days from May 20-24. I would also like to read some of the headlines of this without the need for completeness as to what the search engine is throwing out in the case of the word "public procurement." It is not a stroke, only luck and God help - and Viktor Orbán, of course, I add - Butcher Lion. Blog. I've already quoted this from the Private Chopper, exposing a road maintenance cartel to the police. Hundreds of millions go to visual vests - it's written by Propeller. This 6 billion-dollar cartel suspect is mentioned in 168 hours, dehir.hu and several portals. The state company - daily.hu, P: Sándor - in my opinion it is not about Sándor Pintér - contracted without public procurement, Sándor P. and the cartel were wrong. The acquisition of the Master Brush's ERP system has died in Hamva. Then, please, many, many portals dealt with the case law of MNB foundations without public procurement, bypassing public procurement: There was no public procurement at the MNB Foundations, No public procurement was issued by the Matolcsy Foundations, the MNB Foundations have also confessed, there has never been any public procurement. Well, he's still gonna be here, so let's just say we're still in or out. But, ladies and gentlemen, dear pro-government Members, it is really just a step from now on to say that there is no need for public procurement. 'Cause anyway, they're giving the jobs to whoever you want, who you, your local kings, are pointing to, or, Viktor, because the most important thing is that you point it out. Then I don't need this cat shit. Now, the exclusion reasons for which is mandatory, which are optional, refundable or combined, mixed-type financial instruments, from what threshold, from which aid intensity we determine the public procurement obligation, or below which economic operators are exempted or even received aid. It seems to me very much that I am addressing Mr Secretary of State specifically now that, in the case of the agricultural sector, we should stick to this example, in this sector, where we really would have access to small farmers, small businesses, medium-sized enterprises without which they cannot develop, they cannot survive, we do not want to make it so easy. There's a chance. I understand, Mr. Secretary of State, that we had fairness and good intentions, and I really appreciate that, and the kind of openness that we have to look at in a year and a half, and if so, let's help this sector and help these actors. But now, as I see it, I see that there is a very difficult, very many arguments to make it easier to do so, as long as, in the case of companies which have committed infringements of competition law or infringements of competition law, they can go in such a delicate way, with very vascular precision, they can get there, even from one day to the next, these significant facilitations. This process should be reversed and facilitated, exempted and simplified where it is really needed, such as in the use of agricultural subsidies. And we should make it difficult where we are talking about hundreds of millions or billions of forints. And in the case of public procurement of an agricultural nature, it is very difficult for me to imagine that competition monitoring problems could arise. There, however, it is often more economical to have an individual agricultural enterprise or a company do certain work itself, because it will be much cheaper, more cost-effective, cost-effective and not involve an external company in the implementation of the project, while here, where other companies are obviously to be involved, they are willing to help and facilitate very quickly. Moreover, once again, it is an exclusion which, since 1 May 2004, has been fully and fully justified in the field of public procurement law. It is fully justified that it should be included in the system of mandatory grounds for exclusion. There has never been any doubt about this, regardless of whether the law was now created or modified by Balliberian governments, or whether it was the Fidesz-KDNP government, you now have an insurmountable desire to be so important, and so far it has looked like a foolproof obstacle to those who are not necessarily driven by just fair intentions. So, as it stands, I can tell you, in my best conscience, that in this way, in this form, this amendment will not be supported by the Jobbik faction. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-24-114	Thank you, Congressman Abbot. I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, leader of the LMP Group.
u2016-05-24-115	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, There's a modification of the public procurement law ahead of us, it's worth going back a little bit in time. The first Public Procurement Act was born in 1995 and replaced by the 2003 CXXIX. A two-thirds majority of Fidesz-KDNP introduced the 2011 CVIII Act, then after 2010. Law. Then, somewhat surprisingly, once the same majority created the Public Procurement Act in 2011, we wondered why another Public Procurement Act became so urgent in 2015. Looks like Fidesz has one for each cycle. This is how the 2015 Public Procurement Act, which is currently in force, was adopted, the 2015 CXLIII Act. Law. This is the new public procurement law that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán claimed to be the most stringent public procurement law in Europe. [[István Apáti: Granite strength.]] It is a granite-solid public procurement law, it is true that the public procurement law is a consumable asset at Fidesz, as we have seen. Now, if we start from the stove, from the Prime Minister's word that this is Europe's strictest public procurement law, then it is very exciting that Europe's strictest public procurement law will enter into force on 1 October 2015 and then in December 2015 it will be necessary to apply Europe's strictest public procurement law. Now, why did they touch Europe's strictest public procurement law? Well, that's because in two months, it turns out it's not always the one who's been smirked by fidesz fairy luck. We have already demanded that there should be a very strict exclusion from public procurement to government leaders and local government leaders at the five-party meeting. My fellow Member, Bence Tuzson, took the liberty of saying at the meeting of the Legislative Committee that if we accepted the LMP proposal, the market for public procurement would be paralyzed. You are certainly right about this, because if public procurement by Fidesz is merely a bureaucratic hocus pocus where buddies, relatives and friends have to be divided between orders, then the LMP's proposal could easily result in the paralysis of this market. Honestly, I wouldn't mind that. However, in a slightly brighter version, János Lázár accepted what we wanted, and there was indeed progress in the October Public Procurement Act that in a narrow band, for example, the Prime Minister's and ministerial relatives were excluded from the public procurement process. [[15.40]] But before my fellow Member Mengyi here spreads his arm about what our problem is - which is what Roland Mengyi is gesturing - then I will tell him that our problem is that this great rule has lived for a total of two months, because someone has gotten to his head at some point in November and December, so that it will not be good, because too many relatives will fall out of good, and in December, they have brought back this public procurement law, the strictest public procurement law in Europe, and it has been modified so that the relatives of the government can still apply again in public procurement. If the Prime Minister once considered the law on public procurement, which was adopted in October, to be the strictest law on public procurement in Europe, then what logical link is there to the amendment which, contrary to the text that entered into force in October, now allows the relatives of ministers to start public procurement? But let's keep going. It's barely six months away, and here's the new law amendment to public procurement. Let's take a good look at the date on which János Lázár makes this public procurement amendment: May 10, 2016. This is extremely important because it is worth looking at the important event that took place on the previous day; it can be revealed immediately if I find the document... What happened was that on 9 May 2016, the Hungarian Competition Authority, that it did not, found again businesses, caught them carteling and imposed a lot of fines on MTVA's applications. On 9 May, among the cartel companies, for example, there was the League TV, they received the biggest fine, 40 million forints, and that, behind the League TV, sitting in the middle of a complicated offshore net like a spider in a spider web, Andy G. Vajna, described by the Prime Minister only as the bravest Hungarian. To be honest, if President Lezsák wasn't chairing me right now, I would be very curious to hear from him, too, what a national cultural policy is that which gives Andy G. Vajna a significant slice of national culture, but this is another issue. [[István Apáti: Robbery! Lajos Korózs: I'm curious too.]] One thing is certain, the well-known Commissioner for Film and offshore Knight Andy G. Vajna's interest was caught in a cartel on May 9th. [[István Apáti: He's been framed! György Szilágyi: Coincidence! Defiance in the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP.]] How does a national government react to this? Well, with a bill coming in on May 10th, which, no, frees the opportunity from cartels. So once again, according to the Prime Minister's rating, Fidesz is creating the strictest public procurement law in Europe in October. Europe's strictest public procurement law excluded the kinship of government members from public tenders. What does Fidesz do? [[János Pócs sneezes.]] Cheers to my colleague Pócs. [[János Pócs: Thank you very much.]] Looks like he was telling me the truth. What does Fidesz do? In December, relatives will be released from the ban, and relatives of the Fidesz Choriphites will be able to apply again for public procurement. Then, on 9 May 2016, Vajna's company will be dealt with by the Hungarian Competition Authority for cartels. What's happening here? There is a rule in Europe's strictest public procurement law that anyone who has been a cartel for the last three years is excluded from public procurement. On 10 May, Chancellor János Lázár presented the proposal that it is no longer mandatory to exclude someone who has been a carteler for the past three years, but an optional one. The contracting authority will decide. Here we go. This rule, which has been put before us, is that if someone is good at Fidesz, then the contracting authority will think that we should forgive him for the cartel, for example György András Vajna will continue to be able to enter public procurement. If someone with bad fidesz like Lajos Simicska or not a fidesz, then he will obviously have the contracting authority to apply the cartel rule. I think bullshit is completely unnecessary, and it's pretty obvious what this story is about. On May 9th, there is a cartel decision against Andy G. Vajna, and on May 10th, a bill will come in to lift cartels from the grounds for non-public procurement. So once again, under the current rule, if someone's been a cartel for the last three years, they have to disappear from the public procurement area. Your suggestion is that the contracting authority will consider this carefully. It is worth noting that, although the Act of October last year is no doubt stricter than the Law of the former Public Procurement Act in terms of the cartel's exclusion, it is important that both the 2003 and 2011 laws have established the optional cause for five years. What's happening right now is that there's no reason to disqualify, and that's going back three years. I don't know, I really don't understand who you think you're stupid, my fellow Member of Mengyi. It's obvious what this game is about. Your prime minister classified this public procurement law as Europe's strictest public procurement law. First they let the relatives back on the field, and now they're letting the good fidesz cartels back in. That's what this story is about. If this bill is not withdrawn, I think that any opposition Member can do one thing: reject it in an outraged way. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-24-116	[[For signal:]] I give the floor to Mr Nándor Csepreghy, Secretary of State, who would like to take the floor. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-05-24-117	Mr President, Thank you very much for the opportunity to speak again, and allow me to draw the attention of the public after the meeting of the National Assembly to the fact that today, either on the part of the MSZP, LMP or Jobbik, we have listened to the protection of the law that attacked the same law from as many sides as possible in 2015, it was not adopted and was most criticised. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] So either their position at the time did not correspond to their true professional views and political intentions, or the present is not, or we are meeting with three opposition parties, which always express their own views against the current government position, and in any case they are able to take a single professional position, whether it is Member Schiffer, Member of Apáti or Member Joza: we can say everything, only it must be inverse to what the government says. But allow me to draw attention to some contradictions. On the one hand, I would like to say to Congressman Józsa that Minister János Lázár, besides the Minister of the Government, is also an individual Member of Parliament, so that he has the same rights as the Member on any matter. [[Dr. István Józsa: Not elegant!]] may submit an amendment to Parliament on any matter. As a congressman, this is an opportunity, as it is for you; it is another question of how many times you make use of it. The other issue that the opposition has asked the government on numerous occasions, including this spring in the European Union debate and at the end of last year, is the role that the government intends to play in allocating the funds to be recovered to Hungarian financial actors, and whether there is a possibility that where market players can carry out this activity, the State should not do this task, but that market players should do it. Among other reasons, as mentioned in the 2012 competition procedure, it would be difficult to do so today under today's rules. In the context of the 25 million limit, it is certainly worth saying that if we agree - and there are few things that I perhaps agree with Mr Józsa, but with this statement yes - that the aim of public procurement is, however, to support quality selection and cheapness as far as possible, then this framework is difficult to interpret, where it is supported, that is, the undertaking which uses public money to carry out an investment, but that public money must be repaid at the same time, where it is interested in buying the service or the product that he buys from these sources, it is expensive, because he has to repay this support until the last forint. So if you buy this more expensively, if you do not choose a supplier on the side of a service or a product, you will have to pay more back to this state register than if you buy cheaper. I do not understand that the Member's commitment to public goods is a measure that he cannot accept. I would like to draw Mr Schiffer's attention, in any case, to the question that, following the adoption of the 2011 Public Procurement Act, which was the third in number after the change of regime, a new public procurement law was needed, on the one hand, because the European Union brought in a new procurement directive in 2014, which all 28 Member States must transpose into their operational practices. [[15.50]] If the Member not only wanted to appear in Parliament to obtain a compulsory remuneration but also to participate in a substantive debate, he would probably be able to respond to that. The fact that the Hungarian Public Procurement Act, on which Prime Minister has been quoted several times, has indeed been classified as the strictest public procurement law in Europe, despite the fact that he is trying to argue against it, because there is no other EU public procurement regulation other than the Hungarian legislation that would exclude people living in a household from the public procurement procedure. It can be argued that this is a sufficient degree of austerity or not, but such legislation, which excludes anyone at all on the grounds of political conflict, is not in another EU Member State. I do not understand, in part, what Mr Apáti said because the 25 million framework contains the same rule as in the case of non-agricultural purchases as in the case of reimbursable resources. So where it is necessary to pay back - I say it once again - this money you receive from the State is essentially indifferent to whether it is done in the framework of public procurement, and because of this, it is cheaper to buy it, or not, because it pays back that money, it is included in its name to recover the aid. Here, the value of the aid itself, the level of the aid, is the interest rate relief that the State guarantees, and which allows them to use this resource cheaper than market interest, either by agricultural undertakings or by other undertakings, to implement their own development. And what is most discreet is that Jobbik, which always proclaims national sovereignty, if this measure, which would introduce an EU minimum standards in the public procurement law, complements the measures that have been taken so far, where he categorizes in the eligibility category of the contracting authority whether or not he should apply the previous competition authority procedure if he has fulfilled all the obligations of the former condemned party, then in essence nothing else has happened than to say, quite frankly, you would like the Hungarian financial sector not to participate in this mediation service, but rather European banks. [[It's a riot and a revelation in Jobbik's ranks. István Apáti: Wow! Very good.]] An interesting attitude, this is an interesting manifestation of popularism on behalf of the Member. I don't know if this will help President Vona regain his position and run for vice president. [[There's grumbles and light from Jobbik's ranks.]] Anyway, I'm rooting for you. [[István Apáti: Vote for me!]] Mr President, thank you very much for this opportunity. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-24-118	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Csepreghy. I give the floor to the author, Congressman Roland of Mengyi.
u2016-05-24-119	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In a very family atmosphere, sometimes with an ironic tone, the discussion of this proposal and the amendment is taking place. I think that, in terms of combined financial instruments, I really do not think there is a debate, because there is no one today who, with a grant, would like to shorten his own investment by risking its repayment. I'd rather reflect on the dots of the MSZP or on the spots, or I don't know what the MSZP has. [[Dr. István Józsa: Pottyei are for Matolcsy. Defiance.]] About this dotty, not the dotty thing. From all places and even from all directions - unfortunately our fellow Member Schiffer has already left the room after his very ironic comment - we have heard that it cannot be appropriate, it is not good to reverse the participation of cartel infringement cases in public procurement in accordance with the 2014 European Directive, because it is a subjective decision and cannot be entrusted to it. I think, in fact, that the Secretary of State has said that it should be dealt with in a way that is appropriate transparency and within the appropriate framework; I think that this is somewhere in the direction that, in order to settle due liability and transparency, it is worth living here with a change, and I might even do it myself, so that we can tie this to some kind of authorisation procedure, so that it is not really the author of the offer who can decide in this situation. Obviously, I say to everyone, because you know that these do not concern certain companies, but the entire industry or the whole round of public procurement at the time of the announcement, so it's not that it can be for someone in a public procurement, and it's not for someone. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-24-120	Thank you very much. In the meantime, I will ask if any of the independent Members wish to speak. [[For signal:]] It says no. I give the floor to two-minute people, first to Congressman István Józsa, MSZP.
u2016-05-24-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I did not doubt that Mr Lázár had the taxative right to make a motion by his elected representative, I merely noted that a minister who was presented in an object belonging to his wallet was either not confident in his own wallet to be able to work it out and submit it properly, or for some very extreme reason. And I would like to strongly reject that, my dear Mr Csepreghy, because you do not have a representative's license, and therefore I would also ask you to adjust your use of the word a little to the public office; there is a slightly different decency between Members and the public official. I believe that public officials should pay special attention to the elected representatives of the representative body. So when you encourage us to submit individual MEPs' proposals, this is at the limit of cynicism, because it is not very typical of the government side to take this into account. [[Lajos Korózs: Not at all.]] Specifically, my fellow Member says not at all. I've made several motions myself. I am not saying that it is against the good morals that Congressman Lazarus is submitting by going around his own wallet, but we can certainly see it as odd. We agree that the aim of public procurement is to achieve a realistic price, but when you have introduced that you must choose not the cheapest one, but the most expensive one, then there are certain constraints. They talk about coercion that you might be recommending someone; for example, in the field of street lighting, LED lighting, they said in the country that someone was very successful and not the cheapest. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-05-24-122	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy.
u2016-05-24-123	Honourable Congressman, I apologize if I've offended you in any way on behalf of the public authorities. I think that legitimate parliamentary representatives of the country, who really represent Hungarian voters and Hungarian citizens, deserve respect. Humanly, I have that in me, and I'm trying to find it professionally in you - it's hard. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks. Dr. István Józsa: Learn more! Young man!]]
u2016-05-24-124	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman István Apáti for two minutes, Jobbik.
u2016-05-24-125	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, There is no contradiction between Jobbik's previous and current positions, at all, in my previous speech I did not make any comparison between Jobbik's previous position on the whole or part of the law, or this part of it, and the current position or those positions. My main objection was that, and I maintain these, is that it is very, very dangerous and far from affecting banks and bank financing, is that a mandatory, truly granite-solid exclusion is now classified into the optional, optional category. We are moving slowly, as I said before, from rigor to relaxation, from granite to whipped cream easiness, at least in this direction. Now we're going to the worst end point on the scale. And as for your willingness to be a cheerleader in my direction, thank you very much for finally having a cheerleader in the pro-government ranks and benches. Thank you very much. By the way, I can assure you all that my problems of this kind have been resolved, so this is also going in the right direction. But thank you very much for showing sympathy and enthusiasm. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] In any case, there would have been another way to do this at the time, Mr. Secretary of State. If bank financing was the main problem, it might have been possible to think about other norms, but therefore, in general, in all competition supervision decisions, whether they involve banking operators or other economic operators, they opened up these opportunities or this door too wide. By the way, if I were to say that I am doing something a little bit of criminal law here, I might think of a ban on double evaluation, although we are not talking about criminal matters, that if someone has been punished once for any omissions or actions in a final enforceable decision, and there he has actually paid, paid what he has been required as an obligation, he has paid it off, he has fulfilled it, so don't make it worth it. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] In another area of law, another aspect is a legal disadvantage. [[16.00]] Well, that's another real argument, I suppose, but here it is. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] it is completely different, and it is not narrowed down to a specific area, but rather opened to a wide range. National sovereignty and national protectionism [[The president's ringing again.]] Our commitment to him, please do not question him. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-24-126	Dear fellow Member, It's not two-and-a-half minutes, it's just a two-minute comment. Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy has spoken, you have the floor.
u2016-05-24-127	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll try to finish in a minute and a half, and then Congressman Apáti will be counted as his half-minute extra speech. What the Member mentioned, as well as what Mr Mengyi mentioned, in that regard, I suggest that when an amendment is tabled, we look forward to it with respect. Because it is possible to take a position that the authority of the contracting authority is not the criticism of this, but a higher forum, which can make sufficiently transparent decisions so that there is no question that the decision to take, for example, to allow the application of this procedure, is indeed justified and constitutes an economically important exception. So we are open on the part of the government to accept an amendment where this amendment is included, so that it can be allowed in a higher forum, not at the level of the contracting authority to decide when it is applied and when it is not. [[István Apáti: Push the deadline!]] Thank you, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-24-128	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi in a normal time frame.
u2016-05-24-129	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, First of all, since we're talking about respect for each other here, I'm gonna tell you honestly that I'm sorry for you. I'll tell you why. Because I know exactly what this law is about, and I really believe that both Nándor Csepreghy and Minister Lazarus, by the way, are professionally prepared, and know exactly what this law is about, and know exactly what loopholes should be opened by this law for friends and relatives, for friends or for anyone to whom Viktor says yes, these should be allowed. So you are professionally aware of the nature of this law, and you are also aware of what this is about. So, from your point of view, I think it would be much better if you didn't know what this was about, and you were convinced that this was really about what you said here, so it was just about agricultural procurement and just about banks or anything else, that would be good. That's just not what this is about. You know that, and you know that's not what this is about. The order for public procurement is a critical area that is crucial for all states, and this area requires particular attention from both legislators and law enforcement. Among other things, the importance of this area is that public procurement is carried out according to these procedures, which represent a very prominent part of budget expenditure, with some calculations showing that almost half of it is carried out. The procedure is intended to ensure that the requirement of an appropriate value-for-value ratio is enforced in procurement, which would, of course, require transparency and a level playing field. In addition to promoting efficient public operation, transparent and clear public procurement rules are of paramount importance for domestic economic operators, as these procedures also guarantee that national small and medium-sized enterprises win public orders. This is what would be important in a country such as Hungary, where the level of state redistribution is very high compared to GDP, there, without state orders, the development of small and medium-sized enterprises is virtually impossible, and this is also a very important and prominent aspect of Jobbik Hungary's Movement when we negotiate such laws. Unfortunately, there has been an increasing negative trend in public procurement over the last six years; public procurement is now considered by everyone as a hotbed in Muty, let us add, not without every basis, where arbitrary decision-making and unscrupulous overpriced are commonplaces. This has been noticed not only by Hungarian SMEs but also by the European Commission, expressing its concerns in a number of forums. Cleaning public procurement of abuse would therefore be in the primary interest of all of us. Now, let's talk about the bill before us. The bill seems to be a minor amendment, but it actually strengthens the negative trends that make no one in Hungary try to make a bid without proper political assistance or kinship today. Why do you think it is so common that there is only one bidder in the various tenders? Consider, for example, procurement of public lighting systems. You don't think there were any other suitable businesses in the country that could have done the job well? No, I didn't. Only the company of the Prime Minister's son-in-law was able to perform these tasks at a rather high price and, as has been proven since then, in a rather poor quality. Think of the example in Dunaújváros, where after the investment the city fell into darkness, now also in the field of public lighting, because before that there was only darkness in the minds of some local Fidesz politicians who killed and cemented because it was their political program. [[István Apáti: Stonework!]] The specific text of the proposal states that tenderers who have already been abused and punished once will be allowed to compete again. So once again, those who have already been abused and punished, or have been cheated, have already been cheated. Well, it would make perfect sense that economic operators who act unfairly against the State, thus cheating on the public procurement procedure, should be excluded from further procedures. That's what it was. We didn't have a problem with it. In November 2015, when the new Public Procurement Act came into force, it was clear to everyone, so it was also included in the text of the Act that it was compulsory to exclude from the list of bidders for whom a penalty has already been imposed for previous abuse. On the other hand, just six months after the entry into force of the law, the government claims that this legal provision is too strict, so let us not rule out fraudsters by law, but leave exclusion as an option in the purchasing power. Ladies and gentlemen, This provision legalizes fraud. With this amendment, the deterrent force of the law against fraud will be even lower than the current one. Is that really what we want? I mean, we've learned in the past that there's a good offshore company and there's a bad offshore company. Bad offshore companies are subject to Hungarian laws, good offshore companies are not subject to them, they can be given state orders even illegally, and contracts can be concluded freely. And now we're gonna learn how good cheating companies and bad cheating companies are doing? We're not gonna let bad fraud companies run public procurement, we're gonna let good fraud companies go? 'Cause right now, right now, this is the opportunity, that's what it's all about. The justification for the amendment is practically weak even as a joke. In addition to the recasting of the legislative text to be amended, there is virtually no justification. What was the experience over the past six months that led the government to take the view that this strict provision should be softened to this extent? Who is the government company or who are the government companies, there have already been a few signs in the speeches, who have been punished for abuse, and should therefore be excluded from further proceedings? That's what's changed in the last six months, nothing else. What's changed is that there's so much change that my friends have been cheating in the last six months, cheating, trying to cheat the state, punishing them, and from now on you want to let these friends back in, because Viktor is letting them come back. Well, who are we gonna give the money to if they don't, if they belong to us once and they're close to us? Therefore, the amendment proposal is both formal and substantively uncomprehensible, and the intention behind it is completely shameful. At one point, the bill amends the six-month law, which has been amended several times, and this point refers to the cases in which non-state actors have to carry out their procurement under a public procurement procedure. It is legitimate to expect that if the State grants aid to a particular procurement, the procurement will be carried out in the same way as is mandatory for public procurement, i.e. to conduct a public procurement procedure. Unfortunately, that would be the idealized state. However, according to the amendment, public procurement should only be carried out for public money, aid for investment, if the aid is non-refundable. [[16.10]] The reason for the change is also meaningless. They say it's necessary based on the experience of the last six months. If you look at the practice of previous years, you can see that the definition of aid used in the Public Procurement Act has not changed in comparison with the previous law of 2011 and you can also see that the law has not made a distinction in relation to investments made from grants. The question therefore arises: if, between 2011 and November 2015, the public procurement obligation imposed on the beneficiaries both in the case of the aid to be recovered and in the case of grants, then what has happened in the last six months, which justifies the change in this House. The rapporteur does not provide any substantive answers to that question. In addition to such preparation, given the scandalous practice of previous years, I am forced to assume that the government is now serving some individual interest. The reasons for the amendment are also justified by the inconsistencies in the proposal. Under the proposed rule, we do not have to... - and now let us pay attention and perhaps try, fellow Members, to understand exactly what is in the law. Therefore, according to the proposed rule, there is no need for public procurement for the aid to be recovered, but there is a need for public procurement for grants. There are aid schemes where the aid instruments to be recovered and non-refundable are combined. In this case, it would be logical to determine whether the obligation to conduct a public procurement procedure is determined by the amount of the grant, whether it reaches one of the procurement thresholds. That would be logical, obvious. On the other hand, the proposal states that such a combined aid instrument does not require the conduct of a public procurement procedure at all. Let us take a very extreme example: if a person receives 1 percent of non-refundable aid for investment, say, in the form of some kind of preferential loan and 99 percent of non-refundable aid, then he does not have to conduct a procurement procedure at all. In any percentage, we do not determine the amount, the amount is not included in the law. If the amount is not included in the law, then there may be problems. This provision fits perfectly into the corrupt legislative practice we have seen from Fidesz in the last six years, so we should not be surprised. We are raising the enforcement of individual interests to the legal level, as opposed to the community interest, at the expense of the state, at the expense of the Hungarian people. It is primarily the responsibility and responsibility of the legislators to reduce and eliminate systemic corruption. Legislation is a serious, responsible, highly skilled profession, which is thus a sin to deliver to individual interests. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary will continue to work and work in the future to reduce systemic corruption phenomena, subject regulation to the public interest and restore the integrity of legislation as a profession. But I see that there will be a substantial change only if the prison-based XX. The parties of the century, the Fidesz and the MSZP are out of the legislation, the possibility of awarding state and EU money, because as long as you run the country, there will be the slumber, my brother's system, and the subjugation of the interests of my friends, even in the legislative process, unfortunately, there will remain the dirt. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-24-130	I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I give the floor to Congressman Roland of Mengyi, the author.
u2016-05-24-131	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I would like to continue to draw attention to what has already been said in the national speech and in several contributions. This helps domestic businesses, helping domestic businesses access EU funds. I am sorry for my right-wing fellow Members, because they are in a difficult situation, because they must challenge a proposal for a major amendment with life-like proposals by attacking politically, but they need to know that the interests of Hungarian businesses, besides the interests of the Hungarian financial intermediary system and the acceleration and simplification of the EU funds that can be involved, are behind this. Thank you to the government for your attitude here, although, for the time being, orally, that the government is open to raising decision making to another level, with possible amendments to the optional procedure, to a much more transparent level, which is much clearer about the responsibilities. I think that such an amendment will certainly come and, after all this, I will continue to ask my fellow Members to support the amendment. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-05-24-132	Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. There will be a general debate on the bill to amend certain compensation laws until closure. Presentation by MEPs János Lázár, János Pócs and Pál Völner T/10727. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, the author of the item on the agenda.
u2016-05-24-133	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear House, T/10727 on the amendment of certain compensation laws Legislative proposal No.3 amends the Act XXV of 1991 on partial compensation for damage unfairly caused by the State to the property of its citizens in order to settle the property. Act II on the entry into force of Act I of 1992 on Cooperatives and the transitional rules of 1992 and repeals Act XLIX of 1992 on certain issues concerning the use of compensation tickets for the acquisition of agricultural land. Law. According to the rules in force, in order to settle the property situation, the State's 1994 XXV on partial compensation for damages unfairly caused by citizens' property. Law 1 deals with the re-regulation of the ownership of agricultural land before the change of regime, as well as the promotion of private ownership of cooperative and public land. To this end, the Compensation Act 15. According to Article 1 (1) of the Act, in order to ensure compensation in agricultural land, the cooperative or its successor designates the agricultural land owned or used by it, acquired under the legislation listed in the Annex to the Compensation Act. These are the so-called cooperative land funds. The cooperative land thus designated will be auctioned under the legislation. In addition to the auction of cooperative land, the legislation also regulates the auctioning of state-owned land, the so-called state land fund. The Compensation Act 7. Paragraph 1 (1) (b) defines the obligation of the State to ensure that the persons holding the compensation certificate are able to use their compensation securities to obtain land under the conditions laid down by law. The private ownership of cooperative and public land for compensation purposes can therefore be ensured by means of auctions under the existing legislation. The government is holding the land auction on the order of the decision moratorium 1003/2010. He's shut it down on the basis of a government decision. That Government Decision was repealed by Article 1146/2010. Government Resolution No 8 July 2010, but no decision to support issues relating to the retention of land auctions was taken. Thus, it was the last time a compensation auction took place in 2009. The lack of compensation auctions has also been influenced by risk factors due to the time taken, such as the estimated cost of auctions of hundreds of millions of forints, the lack of expertise and technical conditions for the execution of auctions, the fragmented, unmanageable belt parcels resulting from the auctions. [[16.20]] In numerical terms, the legal predecessor compensation authorities have held approximately 27 thousand auctions since the change of regime, with a total of 26 830 auctions resulting in 765 445 eligible for compensation for a total of 2 145 824 hectares of land. One more piece of the so-called cooperative land fund, while 16 more auctions remain in the state land base for 1615 hectares of land for settlements such as Békéscsaba, Nyíradony, Szeged, Solymár, Budapest XI. and II. its districts. Ladies and gentlemen, In summary, therefore, in view of what has been said, compensation holders, despite the legislation in force, cannot in practice claim their compensations for the acquisition of land in practice today. The implementation of the legislative objective set out in the compensation legislation set out in the bill, in particular to enable those entitled to compensation to meet their compensation needs by means of land auction, has been halted. As a result, in the last seven years, neither the right holders of compensation have been able to enforce their claims for compensation in respect of those land, nor the proper use of the land has been possible. The amendments indicated in the proposal aim at releasing land owned or used by the cooperative or its successor as a first step in the closure of the compensation process, as well as land owned by the State and land for compensation purposes, the public land fund from the compensation goal and the final conclusion of the long-standing compensation crop auction. As a result of the changes to the legislation indicated, the said land will be owned by the State, by which the ownership of the land remaining during the compensation will be settled, while the land concerned will be able to be bought by the farmers, i.e. the sale of the land to the farmers in the framework of the programme. Dear House, The amendments described above would represent progress on a matter of long-standing, difficult to deal with in practice, which is detrimental to all actors, but at the same time a priority. I therefore call for the bill to be supported, following its discussion, by their unanimous vote in the vote. Thank you for your attention, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-24-134	I would like to ask you on behalf of the government if you wish to speak for Secretary of State Csepreghy. [[Nándor Csepreghy rises to speak.]] Yeah, he's signaling. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-05-24-135	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Very briefly. Mr. Congressman, since the government's intentions are to close the compensation process for a long time, and we see one of the tools for this in the framework of the programme for farmers, the government is in favour of settling the legal situation and supports the strengthening of the ownership layer by involving the land concerned in the programme for farmers. Therefore, the government supports your proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-24-136	Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. In this context, I will give the floor to János Pócs, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, who will give his speech on the pulpit.
u2016-05-24-137	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, T/10727 on the amendment of certain compensation laws The purpose of the bill is to complete the compensation process since the change of regime. According to the decision of the meeting of 11 May 2016, the possibility of selling the land to farmers should be created for all public land, as part of the programme for farmers. Ladies and gentlemen, The sale of part-state part-cooperative-owned land for the supply of compensation can be ensured by the sale of the land to the farmers under the programme if the possibility of buying land with a compensation ticket is no longer possible for the future. As Secretary of State Völner said, the land auction for compensation was the last time in 2009. In view of the fact that there is currently no compensation auction, the use of compensation tickets for the acquisition of land cannot be put into practice. In order to settle the compensation process, it is necessary to delete the provisions allowing the use of compensation tickets for the purchase of land from three targeted pieces of legislation. The legislation to be amended by the proposal is the XXV of 1991 on partial compensation for damage caused by the State to the property of citizens in order to settle the property. Act II on the entry into force of Act I of 1992 on Cooperatives and the transitional rules of 1992; Act XLIX of 1992 on certain issues concerning the use of compensation tickets for the acquisition of agricultural land. Law. The Kpt. its fourth regulatory subject, Kpt, will be repealed in its entirety. I. and the Amit. However, rules remain which do not affect the use of the compensation ticket for the purchase of agricultural land. Those provisions should not be repealed. The draft therefore does not mean a review of the entire compensation scheme, focusing solely on its only aspect, the soil. The amendment does not affect Kpt. I and II of 1992 on the entry into force of Act I on Associations and the transitional arrangements not even sections of the land fund within the law. As regards cooperative land funds, Rozmaring Mgtsz. , hereinafter referred to as the "cooperative', no compensation authorities have been able to adopt a permanent cooperative land fund so far, and Kpt has therefore been established for these real estates. I. and the Amit. Under its provisions, the approval of the land fund prepared by the cooperative and the sale by auction of property classified in the compensation land fund fall within the competence of the Justice Office, the IH. The real estate authority has approved the designation decision by the IH as the first instance compensation authority, and the Ministry of Justice, as the second degree compensation authority, has agreed with the decision of the IH in the context of the appeal procedure. At present, the deadline for judicial review has not yet been reached, and only in the case of an approved and final land base is it possible to hold the auction under the legislation in force or to dispose of any land. At present, land belonging to the cooperative land base is land use right or property of the actors, therefore the Amit. 25. Paragraph 4 shall be amended to provide that these lands shall be owned by the State without auction after their designation. In view of the fact that the third and last phase of the programme for farmers will be completed by 31 July, it is therefore necessary to ensure the immediate entry into force of the above legislation. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to the cocaine mentioned by Secretary Völner, I would like to mention a few additional reasons and risk factors for the non-reimbursement of land auctions since 2009. The estimated cost of the auctions is more than HUF 100 million and the lack of expertise to carry out the auctions is significant. A separate department with the legal predecessor compensation authorities carried out the tasks of the authority in relation to the auctions. [[16.30]] As of 2010, there is no person in the compensation authority's staff who has participated in the auction and therefore, without the involvement of external helpers, the auctions cannot be held. Furthermore, the lack of technical conditions for the auction, the special auction programmes were typically made in the early 1990s. They run under old operating systems, their current use creates problems, and the small amount of land distributed at the auction is in conflict with the expected high number of applicants. Unfarmed, fragmented items would be created, in the form of undivided joint ownership and in some places in the form of belt parcels. Auctions are expected to be largely carried out by those who are not entitled to compensation, but by those who purchase compensation tickets for speculation. Furthermore, only a fraction of the compensation tickets that can be used would be included in the auctions and the special rules for auctions would result in the sale of high value state cooperative-owned land at a non-market price. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to get some more information on the remaining auctions. Your predecessor's compensation authorities have had approximately 27 thousand auctions since the change of regime. One piece of the so-called cooperative land fund I, while one of the so-called cooperative land funds II. There are still 16 auctions left of the state land base. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to quote these data briefly from 1991 to 2009. The number of auctions held in cooperative land fund No. I is 21 352. In the ground no. 5478 pieces. That's 26,830 in total. The auction of the gold crown in cooperative land fund I 37 517 375 and II 1 819 408. This is a total of 39 336 783. The amount of hectares auctioned for cooperative land fund I is 1,76,530, II. The total number of property acquired in the cooperative land fund No 1 is 614 976 and II is 2 145 824. In the ground no. 150,469,all 765,445. For the remaining agricultural auctions, I would like to report on the following data. The number of remaining auctions in cooperative land fund No. I is 1 piece, under II. 16 pieces in state ground no. 17 pieces in total. The remaining gold crown in the cooperative land fund No. 1 1626, and II. 36 368 golden crowns in state ground No. 37 994 golden crowns. The remaining hectares in the cooperative land base are 79 and II. 1536 hectares in the State Fund No 1615 hectares in total. Ladies and gentlemen, Based on what has been said, I ask you to support T/10727 on the amendment of certain compensation laws. the adoption of bill No 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-24-138	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2016-05-24-139	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, There is yet another motion before us, which saves us again the discussions and the process of going through; it is likely that this motion of self-representation was made again in a café, where they were sure to sit, and they discussed well what to do with the fields then. The content of the law and the purpose of the proposal is to complete the compensation process, as a first step, to settle the ownership situation of the land remaining during the compensation period within the framework of the programme for farmers. Individual representatives of the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office have proposed that the land belonging to the cooperative land base be acquired by the State after their designation, not by the municipalities. And as state property, they become available for sale in government auctions. It is completely incomprehensible to us why the Minister responsible for government work has amended this law in the form of individual representatives, as well as why the government is acquiring new public land through the compensation system, with which it can continue to serve its own interests. Therefore, the MSZP Group will not support this amendment, because we do not believe that cafes should decide which land to land. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-24-140	I now give the floor to Mr Ander Balázs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-05-24-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I have a question for the present authors. The question is why you did not support the resolution proposal submitted by Jobbik a month ago, which we submitted on this subject. I would ask Mr Pócs or my colleague, Mr Völner, for this I would ask for an honest answer, in a few sentences, to explain the reason why you rejected this, although we believe that this proposal for a decision could have helped to make amends to a large extent, indeed very, very badly, the fate of large masses, their situation. What I can tell you about the bill is the same as what Congresswoman said to me. We cannot accept this proposal in this form, since it would strengthen the same method that we have already condemned so many times. In particular, the fact that it would create worse conditions in rural Hungary than it was a hundred years ago, in such a way that 80-20 percent of the land you have said, i.e. 80 percent of the real small and medium-sized family farmers, and 20 percent of the estate, will not be realised at all, one word of which is not true. It's enough to go to the countryside, and if, in many cases, those government party puppies, as I did yesterday after the agenda, told them, opened their eyes and took a few laps in rural Hungary, then they would experience the nugget that we face every day there. This is the unlimited rule of the great estate, honourable Members. When you tell us how successful the programme for the farmers has been, it's nothing more than a scrupulous government propaganda. Yes, we also know small farmers who are indeed family farmers and who have access to land in this form. There are such things. But we also add that this is actually just a type of beautifying bouquet on the big government hat with which they are trying to cover a lot of filth, and under this hat they are loading the robberies, the land grabbings of Lőrinc Mészáros, the cases where I mention only my own county, in the northern part of the county, Ádándó paid over 600 million for a small farmer with so-called crusted palms for the land he bought, or that if we go to South Somogy, we can see that the members of the Belgian Claesses family bought land there for almost a billion forints. The same would also be the case for these areas, as Mr Pócs's presentation has shown here, the state will seize these areas and distribute them to its friends without blinking at all, just as they did before. [[16.40]] Ergo the Hungarian countryside, the Hungarian village, which has kept this nation for a thousand years, would be in an even more vulnerable position, and it is safe to say that colonization by friends would be completed. It is safe to say, my fellow Members, that the Hungarian countryside would become a servant of the vassals. And we don't want any of that here in the Jobbik faction. What do we mean by the feudal estates, the fidesz oligarchs, and the pals become servants of the Hungarian countryside? The fact that this social, social damage and economic damage, which the major estates are carrying out there in rural Hungary, will continue without further delay. That is why we are saying that we can only accept this proposal if you accept the amendment that we have added to this proposal, namely that these areas should become exclusive, unsellable national assets. This will also guarantee that these areas will indeed serve rural interests as the only remaining resource for rural Hungary. There is nothing else, my fellow Members, in rural Hungary to be based on, other than these lands; only this. This is the wealth that could create some kind of perspective for people who are poor in the countryside or who are working in the community. The social land has also been said here. Where's the social land program? It is true that local governments should also be supported - if they are already thinking about it - in their ability to implement their ideas. Because if you listened to the complaints of the mayors of small towns, what would they hear back in many cases? That these proposals, these ideas, seem to have been completely thrown away from reality during a glass dome, or, let's say, they would have been born in such café dogs, not listening to people who have been running a small settlement for two decades or even 26 years, since the change of regime, and have a vision of how to create living conditions for an increasingly poor rural population. So they should be heard, and if they were to, say, listen to the mayor of your leg, who may have been looking for two acres of land at the NFA since 2011, then it would be appropriate to grant these requests. It would have taken 2 hectares for this 2000-souled Hungarian settlement - where unemployment is a huge, more than 240 permanent, long-term unemployed people - to expand their industrial park, which works well in South Somogy. For years, this settlement has not even received an answer to the demand, the legitimate need to expand this small industrial park, and there they can provide 30-40 more people with jobs. Instead, because there is land, these lands were first to be sold to an Italian farmer, and then when we created a small riblet of it, one of the leaders of the county agricultural chamber applied for it, and it will be his. Now, to these things, we say it's infinitely dirty. These are the cases that they are trying to cover up with small farmers who, in fact, have come to earth at times, wish to continue with these anomalies by sweeping these lands under their little feudal rule and handing out the Stallums from here. So once again, I would ask my fellow members of the Government to think a little about the possibilities of living in the countryside, and to support the proposals and constructive proposals that we are putting on the table, and believe me, not only because we wish to oppose everything and look for fault in everything, but because, even as opposition representatives, even though we have received many times, we do not have our own constituency, except, say, among the better Members, my fellow Group Rig Lajos, but we are still in the countryside and we are trying to collect these complaints, these legitimate complaints. That's what you should be listening to. And if you do not accept these amendments, which we are actually presenting to you as a complaint in the countryside, then we cannot support this bill either. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2016-05-24-142	I now give the floor to Sallai R. Benedek, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2016-05-24-143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Is there really nothing to steal anymore? So you have to touch the last of the tiny areas? [[Intercoms, including János Pócs: This is not like the windmill, there is nothing to steal here. Defiance.]] Thank the representatives of the melon cartel for their comments. [[Defiance.]] We should probably be dealing with ETUSZ about the businesses that have been notified at their own address and the missing public money, but if we can't do that, let's talk about this in particular. [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks.]] In September last year, I asked Sándor Fazekas and János Lázár about what was going on with this compensation fund, because there was virtually a great injustice for Hungarian society and Hungarian farmers, since the nationalizations between 46 and 49, which provide the basis for the compensation system at all, in many cases no real compensation was done. Secretary of State Völner, I believe that you have provided me with the information that the Ministry of Justice is here, that 1 billion 920 million compensation tickets have not yet been used in Hungary at the moment, which means that the families from whom they have taken a fortune, because those who may have acquired all hectares or at the time of their life would have been entitled to compensation in some form. It can be said that now the population has a legitimate claim. There's a reserve on a legitimate claim that could be satisfied. You claim that, after no one has held auctions since 2009, where these owners, who still have the almost 2 billion compensation tickets, could have lived legally, because no one has organised them, we will now overlook this, and the state will einstand this land for this reason. Mr Secretary of State said in his statement that the auctioning was due to lack of expertise, technical background and other reasons. This is strange, because if the state wants to satisfy it in order to make amends happen or to end at all, in the event that it was able to provide the IT, personnel and technical background necessary for the field privatisation, it is interesting why it has not helped to complete it. But I'll tell you one more interesting thing that raises a question for me. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Prior to 2 May 1990, a new claim for compensation in cash or other means for damage to the State's property which has been unlawfully deprived of their life or liberty for political reasons cannot be established by law. I don't know how familiar that sentence is. This is Article U. 9 of the Fundamental Law of Hungary, as you have already stated in the Fundamental Law that the compensation has been completed. If this approach is true, then you are obviously right to say that compensation lands are no longer needed, but then I do not fully understand what will happen to the compensation ticket system, and what will happen to families whose compensation has not been made in the last 25 years, and not necessarily because of their fault, because they did not have the task of making up for it. Families have compensation tickets in small envelopes in the newspapers, because they don't know what they're used for, worth 2 billion forints. It was worth 2 billion forints in 1990, and now your legislation says that at the moment, this means only securities representing nominal value. I also quote your legislation:. The security for the presentation of the redemption certificate, which corresponds to the amount of the compensation and which represents the claim against the State in nominal value. If you fix that it is a security, and you know that it is worth 2 billion forints somewhere in Hungarian households, then my respectful question to Mr. Secretary of State is how you see what will happen. What's gonna happen to people who still have one? How can they come up with any legitimate claims about it after the Fundamental Law says that there is no longer, in principle, anything? So they failed because for 25 years, no one has stepped forward in order to make any sort of compensation auction, or have they lost their fortune forever? Not to mention what the nominal value of that time could mean right now. [[16.50]] My fellow Member Pócs, forgive me, but the text read was not quite clear, and I could not describe whether he had given specific numbers among the many numbers. He said 37,000 golden crowns, then 1615 pieces, but it wasn't clear to me whether it was a hectare. I'd appreciate it if you'd give me a specific answer on the amount of money we're talking about. Not a piece, but an acre? Because there was a play, I wrote it down on purpose. Thank you very much. If, overall, we say that there are still 1615 hectares left of the auctioned hectares, then we can say that this is not actually a large area. At the same time, my reservation, which my better fellow Members have said is that this will certainly be a free robbery, remains this concern. If, according to the interpretation of the Fundamental Law, no item can be established, because we compare it with the statement that Minister Fazekas replied to my written question and that he was here with a compensation ticket of nearly HUF 2 billion, but at the same time we look at how HUF 2 billion is related to 1615 hectares, then it can be said that these lands have their rightful owners, and that before they take such a step, they might have to try to live with their legitimate needs. If not, it may be possible to create this state einstand, but it is in no way imaginable that the land is programmed for the rich, which they are doing, to continue and be included in the foundation. I basically understand if 1615 hectares do not shake the threshold for public opinion, if we are really talking about this magnitude, but it is a matter of principle how we exploit the state-owned property. As my good fellow Member has pointed out, in many places where good modeling programmes have been launched as a result of your public work programme, so much land would be of great help to the municipalities. What I would consider and ask the Secretary of State to do is to consider whether, if you wish to resolve this situation and to eliminate the state that has been in place since the entry into force of Act I of 1992, it would not be a system more acceptable to the opposition if it were not to be automatically released than the rest of the land in the NFA. In that case, it would be easier to digest, but the question would still remain - and I would be pleased if you would give me the honour of your answer in this regard - what will happen to the compensation tickets left with the residents, and when can we consider the compensation to be complete? I'd like to thank you if I could get an answer during a debate so that I might be able to respond. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-05-24-144	Thank you. If there will be a debate, because no one has applied for further comments. I'm just gonna ask if anyone else wants to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I will ask Pál Völner if he wishes to comment. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Yes.]] It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-05-24-145	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to make a few clarifications and respond to what has been said. I would like to start by saying that my coffee habits have been quite reduced, so I would like to reject this kind of approach. In the introduction, the Expoze, it was also said that in virtually five settlements, these lands are available. If we were to throw a land auction bid at it with compensation tickets, that would be a pretty messy situation. The other thing is: I do not know whether, Mr President, you still remember that, at the time of the issue of compensation tickets, you could obtain compensation tickets for practically a fortune, so you were not only entitled to land. It is therefore not right to concentrate solely on the agricultural land, as we know that compensation tickets were used in the privatisation process, together with returns, and that apartments could be bought from municipal property as a whole. So there are countless ways in which this amount can be used, which do not end with this amendment of the law. Due to the comparison of the rates, I would like to mention once again that 1614 hectares are facing 2 145 824 hectares, which has recently been compensated for private property, with 765 445 owners. It can be seen that after the startup itself, it was after 91, and if we look at who remained farmers and who had only received the wealth, we can see that it is a much narrower circle that affects the farmers' population. I would like to mention again, in connection with the programme for farmers, that there is also a credit programme, so if you buy for a larger amount, it does not necessarily mean that you belong to the rich, but that you take some kind of risk. [[Sallai R. Benedek: Can't get ten percent self-force.]] The 10 percent self force compared to the amounts and the number of farmers we are talking about, I think it can be financed from other sources. Of course, not for thousands of hectares, but we know that because of land limitations and so forth, this is not a story. The technical conditions are just that they are very outdated computer systems that used to handle compensation tickets. To throw another wave at it would be a very uncertain thing, to build a new system for 1,600 acres would be wasted money. So this is a kind of technical closure of the compensation process when this amendment is made in terms of land. And I would like to mention one more thing: the public bid is a little strong. Robbery is a different category than a public auction, where sales are normally made at a higher rate than the traffic prices on the spot. Thank you very much. That's all I wanted to add. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-05-24-146	Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Next up is XXXIII. Summer Olympics and the XVIIth. General discussion of the bill on the tender and settlement of summer paralympic games until closure. The submission submitted by Members Gergely Gulyás, Erik Bánki, Imre Vas and István Hollik T/10726. The information document of the State Audit Office is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Gulyás, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, who will give his speech to the speaker about the pulpit.
u2016-05-24-147	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, CHAPTER XXXIII Summer Olympics and the XVIIth. The aim of the bill on the tender and organizing of summer Paralympic Games is to establish a framework for the Olympic tender and settlement, and to confirm to the International Olympic Committee that Hungary and Budapest are able to organise and conduct the 2024 Olympic and Paralympic Games safely and successfully. Who remembers Krisztina Egerszegi's gold medal won in a great struggle 400 mixed in Barcelona, who remembers the victory of the Kozmann-Kolonics pair perhaps achieved with the smallest difference of all time in Atlanta, or the devastating victory of our water polo players against the Russians in the Olympic final in Sydney, or the great chase of Ágnes Kovács' gold in the same place, there is no need to explain how much the Olympics carry and represent, which cannot be included in words, can only be lived. In agreement with the initiative of the general assembly of the Hungarian Olympic Committee and the general assembly of Budapest's capital - in the latter place the proposal was supported by 97% - at the extraordinary meeting of the Parliament on 6 July 2015, more than 80 percent of the Members present voted in favour of the intention to apply with a large majority. The idea of this large-scale enterprise has not come up for the first time since the birth of the Olympic movement in Hungary. On 7 July 2015, following the support decision of the National Assembly, Mayor István Tarlós and Zsolt Borkai, President of the Hungarian Olympic Committee, signed a joint declaration of intent on the proposal for the Budapest settlement of the 2024 summer Olympic and Paralympic Games, which was also sent by the signatories to Thomas Bach, President of the International Olympic Committee. Besides Los Angeles, Paris and Rome, Budapest has become the official candidate for the 2024 Olympic Games. The strength of the Hungarian Olympic movement is well demonstrated by the fact that our National Olympic Committee was founded among the first, and Hungary is one of the most successful sports nations in the history of the Olympic and Paralympic Games with 168 gold medals, 148 silver medals and 170 bronze medals, as well as 30 gold medals, 41 silver medals and 55 bronze medals won at the Paralympic Games. [[17.00]] The strength of Hungarian sport and the confidence of the world's sports leaders have been marked by a number of significant sporting events held in Hungary in recent years, such as the several events of the Kajak-Kenu World Championship, the 2013 World Championships, the 2002 World Gymnastics Championships, the pentathlon World Wrestling Championships, the swimming European Championships, and the fact that Hungary has held a Formula 1 competition since 1986, and until 2021 we have a contract. We can also be proud that the world's third largest and most watched sporting event, the FINA World Water Championship, will be held in Budapest in 2017 and in Balatonfüred. We hope that the successful settlement will further improve the chances of the Olympic tender, which will be decided in September 2017. Budapest has made significant progress in recent years, characterised by the new Danube Bridge, the new metro line, the most important development of the tram network since 50 years, our renewed public spaces: Kossuth tér, Erzsébet tér, Móricz Zsigmond körtér, Széll Kálmán tér, Madách tér, university developments, the Moholy-Nagy University of Arts, the National University of Public Service, the University of Pázmány, and its Faculty of Law and State Sciences in Budapest, as well as sports developments that are unique to European standards, such as the Stadium of Ferencváros, the Puskás Stadium, which is now under construction, or the Dadály swimming center, which will be the center of the 2017 Swimming and Water Polo World Championship Championship. We can also be proud of the cultural investments that have taken place in Budapest in recent years: Várkert Bazár, Vigadó, Erkel Theatre, Müpa Budapest, Aquarium, and we could continue the line. Budapest will certainly be ready to host the biggest event in the world, the summer Olympic Games, by the next decade, assuming a career similar to that of recent years. At the same time, the real chance for a city of the size of Budapest is the economical reform package Agenda 2020, which was adopted by the National Olympic Committee in December 2014 by the National Olympic Committee, extending the use of existing facilities to the whole country. Agenda 2020 means that besides Budapest and the Hungarian Olympic movement, the International Olympic Committee is ready to finally bring the summer Olympic Games to Hungary after 100 years, so we must consider this a historic opportunity. Let us not forget that our national tragedy, World War I defeat and the Trianon peace dictatorship made it impossible for Budapest to hold the most votes of the candidate cities before World War I in 1920. Summer Olympics. Thus, the tender victory would be delayed and modest, but still important historical justice. The adoption of the current bill establishes the most important framework for tender and settlement, which ensures the International Olympic Commission that the Olympic and Paralympic Games could be held in Budapest, while excluding or minimising risks. Furthermore, there are no legal obstacles to the settlement of the Olympic Games in Hungary and Hungary's ability to ensure the swift, effective and successful preparation and organisation of the Olympic Games within a regulated framework, the safe and peaceful celebration of the Olympic Games. The adoption of the law is a guarantee to the International Olympic Committee, as it supports the commitment of both the city and the country. The adoption of the Olympic Act has become an increasingly common practice in the course of the Olympic competitions of recent decades, and it is now almost permanent in the Olympic countries. A similar Olympic law was passed in Sydney, Rio de Janeiro, as well as in London, which hosts the most recent summer Olympic Games in Europe. Similar legislation also provided the NOB with a reassuring response to any problems. The adoption of the law is also of particular importance because we are one candidate that has not yet organised an Olympics, so we must also use all the instruments available to resolve any doubts that might arise in terms of fitness for settlement, including the creation of an Olympic Act. It is important to note that the bill creates frameworks, not the purpose of laying down all the detailed rules, creating them with provisions authorising the legal basis. The reason for this is that the International Olympic Committee is constantly developing the framework and expectations of the settlement on the basis of experience, so that even after this year's Rio Games, new aspects may arise that need to be addressed in a satisfactory way for safe Olympics. The law covers the most important areas of law for the application and settlement of the Olympic and Paralympic Games, given that the Olympic Games are a one-off and essentially unrepeatable opportunity, and that the rules of the law adopted for the tender and settlement of the Olympic Games are temporary and of a very special nature, the rules of the various areas of law are not regulated in the specific areas of law, but are incorporated in a law, the Olympic Act. So we would like to adopt not a salad law, but a complete, round piece of legislation, which is what we propose to the Parliament. The law includes both the rules of the Olympic Games tender stage and the settlement phase after the right to settle. The latter, such as the Olympic Implementation Authority, the entry, residence and employment of third-country nationals, the Olympic Transport Plan, the special rules on unfair market behaviour, will, of course, enter into force only if and after the right of settlement has been acquired. The aim of the adoption of the rules of the settlement phase is to make it clear to the International Olympic Committee that Hungary already has clear ideas and a long-term plan for the whole process of settlement. The proposal raises the institutional tender system laid down in the cooperation agreement between the Hungarian State, the Municipality of Budapest and the Hungarian Olympic Committee signed on 7 December 2015 and sets out the tasks of the organisations, bodies and persons involved in the tender. The Olympic Implementation Authority, such as the sports and infrastructure investments in the Olympic and Paralympic Games, will be established when the right of settlement is obtained. The Olympic Implementation Authority is one of the central bodies of the regulatory environment established by the NOB, one of the most important guarantees for the International Olympic Committee that we will be able to organise the Olympic Games successfully. The law also highlights the most important powers and tasks in relation to the organisation, but the adoption of detailed rules for the Olympic Implementation Authority will be necessary and justified if the right of settlement is granted in accordance with the statutory authorisations. Following the completion of the Olympic and Paralympic Games, the Olympic Authority may continue its activities as an Olympic Heritage Authority responsible for the coordination, care and sustainability of the Olympic Heritage. The law defines the administrative authority issue related to the organisation of the Olympic Games, in particular the implementation of the structures and other facilities necessary for the organisation of the Olympic Games, the organisation of events, the provision of the sites as a matter of national importance and sets out, in part, the implementing regulations, the specific rules relating thereto. The law does not target shorter deadlines for administration than the legislation in force on matters of national importance, it contains the same general rules for speeding up administrative matters, and it does not affect procurement and public procurement rules in any way. The law lays down specific rules on construction and settlement arrangements for investments in the Olympics, and defines the expropriation for Olympic purposes as an objective of general interest, which is integral to the system of the right of expropriation in force, its general rules are laid down in the Act on expropriation and, of course, preserves the exceptional nature of this legal institution, its use under ultima ratio and its constitutional guarantees. In line with EU rules, in line with the expectations of the International Olympic Committee and with the practice of former Olympics, the law also includes rules on the entry, residence and employment of third-country nationals. [[17.10]] The Act regulates the field of transport, following the model of the 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Olympic Act for the 2012 Olympic Games, establishing the Olympic Transport Plan and the Olympic Route Network to ensure the effective conduct of the Olympic Games in accordance with the requirements of the International Olympic Committee. In addition, taking into account the provisions of the NoB Statute of the Olympic Charter, the legislation protects the items of Olympic intellectual property listed in the law, such as the Olympic flag, emblem, flame, torch and the Olympic movement and the Olympic and Paralympic games listed by the law. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, When in September 2017, the International Olympic Committee will decide who will host the Olympic and Paralympic Games in 2024, it will in particular take into account who is the best candidate. But in assessing suitability, it is very important to have the broadest possible political support behind the proposal. For Hungary, it is an extraordinary opportunity that the European continent will probably be able to organize the games in 2024, and the cities that are applying for this event from Europe will have the greatest chance. If in Hungary we are able to create a national unity, leaving party political debates behind in this respect, the chances of the Olympic tender are significantly better than if we were to undermine the implementation of this issue into a debate between government parties and opposition parties. I hope that this responsibility will be recognised by everyone, and so, as the Metropolitan Assembly has previously decided by a 97 percent majority, otherwise with the support of all opposition parties except LMP, in support of the Olympic tender, as the Parliament has been able to decide on this proposal in a worse proportion, but still with a majority of more than four fifths, we hope that a significantly wider majority than the majority of the ruling parties will stand behind the bill in respect of the Olympic Act. That is why I call for the support of all the groups and all the Members for the adoption of the proposal, and we are pleased to make the proposals that are improving our interests a part of the law. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-24-148	I will ask Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, if he wishes to comment. [[Dr. János Fónagy: Thank you very much, yes.]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-05-24-149	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to Los Angeles, Paris and Rome, the official candidate city is XXXIII of 2024. summer and XVII. Paralympic games. As we have heard in the previous national speech, our country has a historic opportunity. Three factors support the successful application and host of the 2024 summer Olympic Games. First, Eastern-Central Europe and Hungary regained their freedom in 1990, and now this region has become the most dynamic and growing region in Europe. The second factor is that Hungary will be a member of the European Union which has actively contributed to the renewal of national transport and other infrastructure systems by 2024 following its accession in 2004. The third is the Agenda 2020 reform programme of the International Olympic Committee, which aims at a more rational, more economical, cheaper, profitable Olympics and provides a realistic opportunity for the big cities of Budapest. The Olympic tender consists of three stages, of which the necessary measures have been taken at the first stage and the documents have been submitted to the International Olympic Committee, and the strategic and operational institution system of the Olympic tender has also started to operate. In the second phase, we need to confirm to the NOB that, while excluding or minimising risks, the Olympic and Paralympic Games can be organised and that there are no legal obstacles to the settlement of the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Hungary. Our country is able to ensure that the Olympic and Paralympic Games are prepared and organised quickly, efficiently and successfully within a regulated framework, and that the Olympic and Paralympic Games are celebrated safely and peacefully. This is what the bill is now submitted to support, since the adoption of the Act by Parliament creates the most important framework rules for the application and settlement, which are also a guarantee for the NOB and confirm the commitment of the city and the country. The adoption of the law is also important because our country is the only candidate who has not yet organised an Olympics, so we need to use all the tools available to resolve any doubts that might arise with regard to the ability to settle, including the creation of a separate Olympic Act. Dear House, The adoption of the Olympic Act has become more and more a practice in applying, an almost non-missible procedure in the countries hosting the Olympics. A similar Olympic law was adopted in Sidney, Rio de Janeiro, as well as the latest European Olympic Games in London. At the same time, the legislation provides a reassuring answer to the NOB to address any problems. The law covers the most important areas of law for the application and settlement of the Olympic and Paralympic Games. In view of the fact that the Olympic and Paralympic Games are a one-off and essentially unrepeatable occasion and that the rules of the law adopted for the purposes of the tender and settlement are temporary and extremely specific, the rules of the various areas of law are incorporated, not in the legislation of the respective areas of law, but in a law, an Olympic Act. The law creates the possibility of further detailed legislation with broad powers. The law includes both the rules of the Olympic and Paralympic Games tender stage and the settlement phase after the right to settle. The latter, of course, will not enter into force until the right of settlement has been granted. The aim of the adoption of the rules of the settlement phase is to demonstrate to the NOB that Hungary already has clear ideas and a long-term plan for the whole process of settlement. Dear Parliament, I am convinced that the proposals made by the MEPs greatly increase the chances of Budapest and Hungary in the competition for the 2024 Olympic and Paralympic Games. I urge you to contribute to the successful application, with the adoption of a proposal of strategic importance for the Olympic tender, and to the joint success of all of us. Thank you very much for your attention. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-24-150	Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. In doing so, I give the floor first to Sándor Hadházy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-05-24-151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The Olympic Charter is a codification of the principles of Olympicism and the rules and additional provisions of the International Olympic Committee. The Olympic Charter regulates the organisation, acts and operation of the Olympic Movement and sets out the conditions for celebrating the Olympic Games. In essence, the Olympic Charter serves the following three main objectives. As a constitutional charter, the Olympic Charter expresses the principles and most important values of Olympism and warns against their compliance. The Olympic Charter is the statute of the International Olympic Committee. In addition, the Olympic Charter sets out the mutual rights and obligations of the three main entities of the Olympic movement, namely the International Olympic Committee, international sports associations and national Olympic Committees. [[17.20]] These organisations are obliged to respect and comply with the Olympic Charter. The father of modern Olympics is Pierre Coubertin, whose initiative led to the Paris International Sports Congress in June 1894. The International Olympic Committee was established on 23 June 1894. The first modern Olympic Games were celebrated in Athens, Greece, in 1896. As a life philosophy of Olympism, he embraces and glorifys the abilities of the body, the will, and the spirit as a united whole. Combining sport with culture and education, Olympics strive to develop a way of life based on the joy of work, the value of role modeling, social responsibility and respect for universal moral principles. The goal of Olympics is to bring sport into the service of the harmonious development of mankind, in order to promote a peaceful society and to preserve human dignity. The Olympic movement is a series of universal and permanent actions organised in agreement, which will be implemented under the supreme power of the NOB, including all natural and legal persons who are inspired by the values of the Olympics. The Olympic movement covers all five continents. The culmination of the Olympic movement is the meeting of the world's athletes at the biggest sports festival, the Olympic Games. The symbol of the Olympic movement is the intertwined five rings. The exercise of sport is a fundamental human right. All natural persons are entitled to the right to sport, without any form of discrimination in the Olympic spirit, which requires mutual understanding in the spirit of friendship, solidarity and fair play. Acknowledging that sport is an integral part of society, sports organisations belonging to the Olympic Movement have the right to autonomy and have the obligation, including the free definition and control of the rules of sport, to define the structure and governance of their organisation, enjoying the right of elections without external impact, ensuring and applying the principles of good governance. Discrimination in any country, person, race, religion, politics or gender or in any other form of appearance is incompatible with the Olympic movement. The membership of the Olympic Movement is conditional on compliance with the Olympic Charter and its official recognition by the NOB. Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian Olympics are as old as the history of modern Olympics, because the Olympic movement was founded with Hungarian participation, the 19th Olympics. At the end of the century, the idea of Budapest hosting the Olympic Games arose. Budapest is the XX. Several times in the century, in 1920, in 1960, he applied for the largest and most prestigious hosts of the world's peoples in the time of peace. Hungary died in 1919 from the organisation of the summer Olympics in 1920, and with the other losers of the First World War, they could not attend that sports festival. In the early 2000s, the idea of a competition in Budapest was raised several times. Following such precedents, the Hungarian Olympic Committee, the Hungarian Olympics' social organization, is the candidate capital, the Budapest General Assembly, the Hungarian Parliament, and finally Hungary's Government's unanimous support and unity, as well as the XXXIII of 2024 on 16 September 2015. Olympic and XVII. He has become a candidate city for paralympic games. Due to the deep national political and national economic importance of the success of the Olympic competition, it was formulated by stakeholders as a priority goal for Budapest and Hungary to win the Olympic competition and win the right to direct the 2024 summer games. The Agenda 2020, a simpler, more cost-effective tender and settlement procedure, provides an economical way to organise the Budapest Olympics across generations, creating national unity, which also contributes to increasing the recognition of Budapest and Hungary, to the expansion of the national economy, and thus directly and indirectly to the well-being of citizens. We have to apply, not because it's supposed to be easy, but because it's gonna be hard. As previously noted, the Olympic feasibility study carried out at the end of May 2015 concluded that the development of both Budapest and Hungary will enable the successful Olympic Games to be held. In addition, due to the reform of the tender procedure for serious criticism, opposition and rejection, namely Agenda 2020, it can be said that Budapest and Hungary's tender is facing a historic opportunity, even if we are facing competitors such as Rome, Paris and Los Angeles. During the tender procedure, the government has stated its commitment on several occasions to the success of the Olympic tender in Budapest and the implementation of the Parliament's decision. The T/10726. No XXXIII Summer Olympics and XVII. The adoption by Parliament of a draft law on the tender and the settlement of summer Paralympic Games will create the most important framework for the tender and the settlement, which will also guarantee and support the commitment of the city and the country. With the Olympic and Paralympic Games, Hungary will undertake the largest sporting event in the world. A special domestic regulatory system is necessary for successful applications and for the settlement and efficient and fast operation, with the present bill at the heart of it. Olympic and Paralympic Games take place according to the rules and regulations of the NOB, including the Olympic Charter. The rules and regulations of the NOB which do not conflict with public policy and legislation shall be adopted by the City applying for settlement. We must not only create and adopt the law for the sake of the NOB, but also for ourselves, so that we know what to do. Based on the experience of the former Olympic Games, the NOB has developed the regulatory environment and the regulatory set of requirements that the legislator intends to ensure the implementation and effectiveness of, in part, by adopting this Act. The adoption of the Olympic Act, following the former principles and expectations, has become increasingly a practice, an almost non-missible procedure in the Olympic countries. A similar Olympic law was adopted in Sidney, Rio de Janeiro, as well as in London, which hosts the most recent summer Olympic Games in Europe, and the law gave the NOB a reassuring response to any problems. The law covers the most important areas of law for the application and settlement of the Olympic and Paralympic Games and, given that the Olympic and Paralympic Games represent a one-time and essentially unrepeatable opportunity, and that the rules of the law adopted for the tender and settlement of the Olympic and Paralympic Games are temporary and of a very special nature, it includes the rules of the various areas of law, not in the legislation of the respective areas of law, but in a separate law, an Olympic Act, which is therefore supported by practical aspects, with its symbolic significance. [[17 .30]] The law creates the possibility of creating further detailed rules with broad powers. The NOB requires the applicant cities to issue numerous guarantees. These guarantees are unilateral declarations of rights which must be drawn up in various subjects, such as security, financing, taxes, transport, accommodation and facilities. The main purpose of the law is to recognise the need to issue these guarantees and to establish procedural rules to facilitate the rapid and effective issuing of guarantees. The law includes both the rules of the Olympic and Paralympic Games tender stage and the settlement phase after the right to settle. The aim of the adoption of the rules of the settlement phase is to show to the NOB already that Hungary has clear commitments and long-term plans for the entire process of settlement and is already able to offer appropriate legal solutions for effective settlement. This is also of particular importance for our country's application because we are the only applicants where there has not yet been an Olympics, so we must also use all the instruments available to resolve any doubts that might arise with regard to the ability to settle, including the creation of a separate Olympic Act. The aim of the law is also to demonstrate to the NOB that the Olympic and Paralympic Games can be organised while excluding or minimising risks, and that there are no legal obstacles to the organisation of the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Hungary. The law clearly states that Hungary is able to ensure that the Olympic and Paralympic Games are prepared and organised quickly, efficiently and successfully within a regulated framework. Dear Parliament, As has already been emphasised by the speakers before me, it is extremely important to have the broadest possible support for this event, this enterprise. I therefore welcome the parliamentary parties that have already joined the bill, participated in the multi-party negotiations and support the bill. I trust that, in addition to the current accessions, the other parliamentary parties and other organisations in Hungary will be lining up in order to have broad support for this event. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-24-152	I now give the floor to Zoltán Lukács, the lead speaker of the MSZP group.
u2016-05-24-153	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen. There is no debate between us that the idea of the Olympics is one of the noblest ideas and noblest ideas in the world, and of course we do not argue that the Olympics as an event as an event can be extremely attractive and extremely beneficial for a country, attracting attention to this country, of course it can also be extremely beneficial and extremely important for tourism. It is therefore very good for those countries that are in a state of being able to organise an Olympics. Of course, if we look more closely and open these things up and learn about things that have happened to others, then of course we can see that we are not very good at setting an example from the past period that even one summer Olympics, let us say, would have closed with a positive saldo in any country. In fact, there is also a country in which the organisation of the Olympics was involved in its bankruptcy. According to recent news reports, it can be read that the Rio Olympics have not yet started, but it is already calculated that the Olympics will be moaning for many decades, and the current calculations show that the Rio Olympics will close with a serious negative saldo, and that the Brazilian economy will have very difficult days. Ladies and gentlemen. There are nice words here about national cooperation and the need for everyone to stick together in this matter, to listen to the need to organise the Olympics to bring the nation together, and how important it is to put party political battles aside. Those sentences would sound really good. If we look only at today's debates, they show that the same Members still refuse to listen to the speakers of other political parties on one agenda, their only suggestion, their questions are not taken seriously, they do not answer their points. This is true in this House, it is true in the municipalities, it is true elsewhere that politicians of this party often behave in an exclusional manner in politics, often, if you will, not consider fellow politicians on the other side. And then the Olympic agenda comes along and we listen for a long time to what national cooperation and collusion is needed here. I would suggest that we not only force ourselves to work together on the Olympics and ask others to think the same way. It would be much easier to stand on this matter, if we could, say, in at least a few other cases, see that the opinion of the other person is at least as important, at least as important to accept the political idea of others. So, these calls and these voices don't sound very authentic to me. Of course, it is also an interesting question that we have also heard important sentences about the independence and development of different groups and various sports organisations, while we see that the strong political influence that has never been seen in various sports associations and associations is beginning to develop. I understand that the alliances have a very important job, but what I don't understand is that if we really think that professional work is important in these alliances, and it is important that they can work without politics, for example, why Csaba Hegedüs, the wrestling legend, had to be replaced so that Fidesz could become Vice President of the Wrestling Alliance. Or why did it have to be Máté Kocsis, who was the leader of the Hungarian Handball Association, who boasted that the men's handball team, closing fourth in the previous Olympics, did not make it to the Rio Olympics, and that the women's handball team would not be there in the next Olympics. This has been achieved by taking political influence, for example, or taking over the Hungarian Handball Federation. Speaking of which, I would say that if you wanted to organize an Olympics in Budapest, by the time we get there, you should already be able to withdraw your party representatives from the leader of the various alliances and let the competent sports leaders work in peace, perhaps they could achieve more results, such as Máté Kocsis at the head of the Hungarian Handball Association. It would take trust, mutual trust, to be able to support this matter with a good heart. This trust, to be honest, has been given to you in the case of water World Championships, when we voted unconditionally here in Parliament, when you promised that on the one hand, the cost of water World Championships would be HUF 20 billion, and on the other hand, you will select the developers of investments by tender, and on the third, there will be no other demand for water World Championships than the various properties written in that law. In comparison, not two weeks passed, and the HUF 20 billion was already HUF 50 billion, without bringing this case back here, so they abused the trust of those who gave their votes. We are now at the point that the HUF 50 billion is HUF 75 billion, and we are talking about the fact that it wasn't selected on a tender by the person who carried out the investments of the water vb, and, of course, much more real estate was involved in the case than was discussed at the time. [[17.40]] I am only saying this because if we are talking about national cooperation and great consensus and trust, then it would be good to have a reason for this trust and not abuse it when we give confidence and, say, with our votes we support an event of this type. So, ladies and gentlemen, if this happens in a world championship, which is very small for an Olympics, I can't imagine what would happen here in connection with an Olympic investment. As our experience shows, obviously, the circle that appears around you from time to time, those oligarchs, those moneymen would obviously appear to be quite significant here, and this extremely noble cause, the Olympic cause, if you like, would be somewhat polluted by this question. There is a great deal of talk about costs on the one hand and very little talk on the other, from 30 billion to 2000 billion, they say Agenda 2020, which is obviously aimed at making this Olympics a little cheaper. I would add, however, that this cannot be resolved with so little money, obviously infrastructure and other investments that obviously represent an extraordinary economic burden. Not to mention that in the current state of the country, it would be rather strange to organise an Olympics, if I just looked at the state of the health care system, which is not able to manage the care of the Hungarian citizens present here at a normal level. I can't imagine what would happen in the current state of the Hungarian health care system if many athletes of the world and, by the way, all the thousands of visitors came here, but I have an extraordinary fear that it would probably collapse in a matter of days, I might add, it's already not in very good condition. I'm just gonna keep it quiet, and I'm gonna say this again, maybe we should start a country that's suitable for the Olympics and then think about the Olympics. There's a lot of work to be done in this case. Here is the Olympic tender, the study, which is 720 million forints, 60 pages. There are not really any positive professional opinions, there are quite a lot of shortcomings, and there have been many questions about the study that the creators themselves have not been able to answer, and there have been many specific questions about the study which they have not been able to answer, but rather things that have been left out of this study, without which the conduct of the Olympics would have been virtually impossible. Compared to this, we have paid quite a lot for this study, and it is apparently not very suitable to fully provide concrete and accurate data for the organisation and conduct of the Olympics. They also said that small and medium-sized enterprises will receive great help in organising the Olympics. Obviously, small and medium-sized enterprises can or may be useful to them by holding the Olympics, I would add in silence that small and medium-sized enterprises should be supported without the Olympics, because the Olympics are usually rarely organised by a country and small and medium-sized enterprises are constantly there, so if we expect it to be good for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, then it is not very good news for them. Once again, it has also been said that, by the way, the Olympics will benefit from health care, which was specifically said by a pro-government Member. If we are waiting for this Olympics to be organized, and then it should be of some use and then they want to repair health care from it, then they are not very good news for the Hungarian society, who, I repeat, are already having a very difficult time finding out about the existing health system in some way. So, ladies and gentlemen, we agreed that the Olympic idea is important, and we also agreed that it would be very good if Hungary could organise an Olympics. This would require you to make a country that is now under your six-year government, that if you knew that you wanted to organize an Olympics, which we say makes us fit for this, we do not see the tracks of this country at the moment. And once again, let me go back to saying that if you would like to have a national cooperation on this matter, I would say that we and every case would like to have a political cooperation, and we would also like to see you in all matters, in cases where you do not hear the words of the opposition and others, show the same attitude as you do now, when you want us to act in support of this. Ladies and gentlemen, what I see today, at least, is that the country is unable to organise such a summer Olympics in its present state, and I am nevertheless expressing the hope that we will also reach the level where we can say with good heart that Hungary is ready to host such a sporting event, but I believe that if they continue their work in this way, as they have done so far, this will be lost in the distance. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-24-154	I now give the floor to István Hollik, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2016-05-24-155	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, If I may, I wouldn't like to respond now, if I may. To the words of my fellow Member, Mr Zoltán, because I actually believe that the Olympics and, in this context, the bill that lies before us is indeed a national matter, and I would not, by any chance, like to make it the subject of party political debates, not even in this form. By the way, I would like to note in parentheses that I am very pleased that there has been a similar initiative on this issue, and on many other issues, there has been a five-party discussion. We regret, by the way, that not everyone was there, but, as the governing parties there expressed their intention of being open to further improving this proposal, this will continue to be an intention for the MSZP and for any other group that, if there are any improvements, we will, of course, build on it as an amendment to this bill. It was also a pleasure to see at this five-party meeting that it was in a constructive mood and that there were, by the way, improvements that could already be said to be supported, which are basically related to the security of the Olympics. So we continue to strive to ensure that this bill can support all parliamentary parties. Before analysing the content of the bill, a few words should also be said about how we have come to this point, since we will be able to correctly interpret the proposal before us if we look at the process that has led up to this point. My fellow Member Mr Gergő Gulyás talked about the relationship between Hungary, the Hungarian athletes and the Olympics and the Olympic idea, and, by the way, it is safe to say that Hungary has always been committed to the Olympic idea, and we can rightly call ourselves an Olympic great nation compared to our size and population. I would like to add two points to what has been said here earlier. On the one hand, since the change of regime in us, Hungarians have a strong desire to show the world that a small Central European country that has been oppressed for 40 years can do great things, and I believe that this is the fundamental reason why the issue of the Olympic settlement can be said to be a cross-border and perhaps political party belonging to the public. The second point is that this was confirmed by the fact that after the Olympics in Athens and Beijing, it was clear that the era of the gigantic, money-sharking Olympics had ended, and that they had already put the credibility of the Olympic idea at risk, and therefore the International Olympic Commission adopted the Agenda 2020 reform programme, which was intended to resolve the more rational, economical, cheaper and profitable Olympics. The intention to settle the Hungarian Olympics was greatly confirmed by this programme, as I think it can be said that Agenda 2020 provides a realistic opportunity for a large city the size of Budapest. [[17.50]] The competition submitted by Budapest and the Hungarian Olympic Committee in 2015 can contribute to the renewal and renewal of the international Olympic movement itself, through its fresh and innovative Olympic planning ideas and by addressing younger generations. The Olympics must be a national issue that can provide a common goal for all members of the nation, thus giving impetus to the further development of Budapest and the whole country. This, in particular, I think, means that the proposal seeks sustainability. Here, as a parentheses note, perhaps I should be allowed a specific example of the accommodations, the Olympic accommodations, as the application paper also states that outside the Olympic village, the applicant does not want to create facilities that, after a successful application or two years after the Olympic event, the weed grows in, but wants to renovate colleges, higher education and university colleges. In this respect, it is also useful in the time of the Olympics, but, of course, after the Olympics, it integrates in the direction of higher education development, so sustainability is important for the tender. The proposal expects a financially profitable operation, and what is very important, and perhaps I think it can be reassuring for opposition parties to ensure that transparency is also ensured. In this spirit, it is worth noting that the Hungarian competition is the only one who can say that it has been published in its entirety. Neither Paris, nor Rome, nor Los Angeles published the entire tender, except for certain parts of it. Following the spirit of Agenda 2020, the Hungarian competition did this. Perhaps we can reach the proposal in the story here, as it aims to put the principles of organisation into law as soon as possible, and also to lay down in law the institutional system that gives the highest possible chance of winning the tender, and then, after this, can be hoped to succeed. It is also important to stress that the effective and rapid implementation of the successful tender and the settlement is supported by a special regulatory system, so this bill can be a decisive factor in the consideration of the NOB. That is why the bill that lies before us today is important. The main objectives of the law indicate this, which is included in the bill, and I would not mention this in detail, but allow me two objectives that I would like to highlight. One is the application procedure and the establishment of the necessary rules for the effective conduct of the settlement, and the other is the state guarantee that is essential for the NOB to bring us and the Hungarian tender to the winner, so this state guarantee is included in this bill, which will be presented to the NOB. The bill also provides for the institutional system and sets up a system of institutions for the success of the tender and the smoothness of possible planning, which can be exemplary in any case. It is an example because in this institutional system we find not only institutions responsible for the operational operation, I am thinking of Budapest 2024 Nonprofit Zrt. or the Olympic Implementation Authority, but also, complementing them, we can find institutions that help us to see the Olympic Olympics as a national issue on one hand, and athletes from the other on the sports committee and respected Olympic Patrols on the other, can contribute to the successful application, since these people can use their relationship system to ensure that the Hungarian tender is successful. We also see the Olympic Heritage Authority in the institutional system, which, in line with the spirit of Agenda 2020, also takes care to ensure that, from the 30th day after the end of the Olympic and Paralympic events, the proper management and maintenance of the Olympic facilities is carried out, thus clarifying the sustainability of this proposal. The NOB requires the applicant cities to issue numerous guarantees, as I have already said. These guarantees are unilateral declarations of rights which must be drawn up in various subjects: security, financing, taxes, transport, accommodation or the creation of facilities, and the essential purpose of this law is to issue these guarantees and to establish procedural rules to facilitate the rapid and efficient issuing of guarantees. The law includes the basic framework for the Olympic and Paralympic Games tender phase and the settlement phase after the right of settlement. The aim of the adoption of the rules of the settlement phase is to demonstrate to the NOB that Hungary already has clear ideas and a long-term plan for the entire process of settlement and is already able to offer appropriate legal solutions for effective settlement. The aim of the law is also to demonstrate to the NOB that the Olympic and Paralympic Games can be organised while excluding or minimising risks, and that there are no legal obstacles to the settlement of the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Hungary. The law seeks to clarify that Hungary is able to ensure that the Olympic and Paralympic Games are prepared and organised quickly, efficiently and successfully within a regulated framework and that the games are celebrated safely and peacefully. With regard to funding, the funds necessary for the application and settlement of the Olympic and Paralympic Games are provided by the central budget, but the funds required for the tender and settlement should be covered as much as possible by donations and by grants other than central budgetary resources. On this basis, I would like to conclude by saying that KDNP, as it has done, will continue to do everything in its power to make this proposal a success, so, of course, we are in favour of this bill, as we naturally continue to be open and constructive in that if any opposition party has a proposal to amend it, then we can integrate it. We therefore support this proposal and ask all parliamentary parties with or without factions to support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-24-156	I now give the floor to Editing Sebestyén, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-05-24-157	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, We agree that the cause of the Olympics should be a national matter, should be treated on the basis of national cooperation, should be a matter over parties, it is in our interest that, should it be held, a successful Olympic should be organised. As the representatives of Jobbik have indicated in the five-party negotiations, which have become four-party, we support this proposal and the Olympics itself. Of course, we must say that we can support it as long as it is not in the interest of the businessmen around the dogs and the oligarchs and the governing parties, but in fact the rationality and the rational implementation that will motivate it, and the creation of the most effective work and the most efficient and useful infrastructure. Let us not forget, either at the trial of this bill or at the trial of the Olympics, that the Olympics are largely linked to the 2017 World Water Championship, because we should not forget that the decision on the proposals will be made about a month after the World Water Championship. [[18.00]] That is why we can also say that a reference event can understand the water world if it is organised smoothly, if there are no problems or infrastructure problems there, because we can see that even the infrastructure of Budapest is not suitable for a water vb. It is enough that, even if you look at the state of the roads or the state of public transport, in contrast to what we have heard in the national exhibition, we do not see the situation so rosy that Budapest's transport and infrastructure would be so fine. And while we are at it, important aspects must be taken into account. One is why, in many cases, the public is reluctant and distasteful to organise or undertake such large-scale events? Because of the cost, of course. This would, in many cases, be technically eliminated if very many infrastructure improvements were not included in the cost of planning. If I have to set an example for the World Water Championship, the costs of the World Water Championship include the development of the airport terminal. It is not possible to explain to each citizen why we are talking about such sums and what is related to them. Technically, this could be resolved, whether through communication or through communication, in order to make it more acceptable to society, thus making it easier to organise. Because we can make any law, we can start any project, that if there is no support for society behind it, then many times it can fail. It has also been mentioned that it is necessary to build instruments or buildings, including real estate, together with the Olympics, in order to make use of them in the long term. We can even talk about the Olympic village, so that if I can go to the Olympics in my own field, in the social field, we can say that even in the construction of an Olympic village, aspects can be taken into account so that they can be used later for social or social purposes. As Jobbik's program includes the rental program, it is possible to utilize these buildings, the built Olympic village, or return to my own territory again, combining these buildings with assisted housing, helping people with disabilities, or even any building complex built in this way. Returning to the World Water Championship, apart from the fact that there may be a reference event a month before the decision, let us not forget that at such a large international competition, such a large international sporting event, many sports diplomats will be present. This is a very good opportunity for Hungarian sports diplomats or even for our politicians to expand their lobbying activities and try to get as many supporters as possible in the case of the Hungarian Olympics. It is currently the responsibility of the governing parties to do so. Sports diplomats, or even the NOB, are responsible for how they can participate effectively, how they can carry out their activities in such a way that we can get as many supporters as possible and hopefully the event can take place. An important part of it, in my opinion, and I can even say that as a social politician, as an employee of disability issues, is also the organisation of a paralympics. I had to experience that in many cases, as long as we wake up any Hungarian citizen from his sleep during the Olympic season, he can almost blow up who they are who won the last medals, who our Olympic champions are, who are the ones who have a chance to win the gold medal in the competition, but many do not even know what great results we will achieve in the Paralympic tournament. They can't even list any names that we can be really proud of. I believe that if the Olympics are held in Hungary and Paralympics are held in parallel, then perhaps this sector of the Olympic movement will also have a bigger spotlight. It could be a bigger spotlight, people can get to know Hungarian competitors, even the Paralympic movement itself, and through this we may also achieve a process that can make it easier to accept people with disabilities and to integrate them into society, such an event could lead to such a consequence. It has come to mind how profitable and loss-making an Olympics are now. We have also heard examples of financial crises and bankruptcies in certain countries, or we have heard in the speech that it may have led to the country's bankruptcy. I think that, with the right structure, this will be eliminated. The lead speaker, I think, was referring to Greece as a country directing the Olympics, Athens in particular, so let us not forget what I have already mentioned, that there must be a well-designed plan to use these buildings and infrastructure developments later on. Greece did not account for this, Greece made this mistake, and Greece is still underutilised with a large number of properties built for the sake of the Olympics. Of course, it becomes a loss of money if they create things only for that period, create new buildings or new complexes, then of course they are loss-making, because if you look at the event itself, it is a huge cost and a huge cost to organize such an international sporting event. But if you look at the long-term results, you can improve the country image, make Hungary attractive to tourists, not only for the time of the Olympics, but also for long-term tourist benefits. And once again, if, for the sake of the Olympics, we can make use of buildings, stadiums and infrastructure tools later, and we are already building them in such a way that they can be used, used, and even at the time of construction, we have plans on how these things can be exploited, on the one hand, we can reduce immediate losses and perhaps bring in the long-term profitability of such an international competition. So once again, our group will support this proposal with the reservations I have said. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2016-05-24-158	Thank you very much. Welcome. We will continue our work by hearing the lead speaker of the LMP. Congressman István Ikotity is next, please.
u2016-05-24-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The May Other is also consistently in favour of his initial position on this issue, which is that it is not the Olympics. The problem is the state of the country and the Fidesz-KDNP. The problem is with this bill, which is in front of us, which would subject everything to the 2024 Budapest Olympics. It would open the gates wide to the runaway costs and skyrocket the runaway corruption risks, serve the interests of the government's oligarchs. We would think that since we probably wouldn't win the right to set up, we wouldn't have anything to fear, even though the tendering procedure and the preparation could cause serious damage. The cost of preparation, the hundreds of millions wasted on communication are just the smaller item. The larger one is to distort development plans, the overall and long professional preparation of settlement development and professional programmes, and to absorb resources. Any other public interest is reflected in the law regarding the emergence of expropriation passes. According to LMP, Hungary's current state is not only a mistake to enter such a tender, but it is also simply a sin. A country whose health, education and social system are in ruins does not need prestigious sporting events, but needs the repair of large supply systems. In the beginning, there is a serious economic and corruption risk that the Fidesz government wants to prepare and organize such a world event. According to the bill, the Olympic Conciliation Forum would be established, which would become the most important body responsible for preparing and conducting the tender. In order to complete government control, Viktor Orbán, István Tarlós, Zoltán Balog would have the influence of even Pál Schmitt. It also shows that this would be a centralised, forced investment, which is already due to the fact that all financial plans can be significantly exceeded. We know from András Lánczi, the new Rector of Corvinus that what is called corruption is practically the main policy of Fidesz. András Lánczi even recently added that this policy has its own philosophy, the difference is that it is happening here in front of our eyes, I quoted him. [[18.10]] András Dance is right. The Fidesz-KDNP government is particularly concerned about the Olympics, since its main policy is corruption. The sources of the Olympics would be stolen in front of our eyes, and the law would give us every opportunity to do so. We shouldn't allow that, we think. The Olympic Act we are discussing would not put any obstacles to the cost of escaping. The feasibility study itself estimated the costs of the Olympics for HUF 774 billion net, not to mention other related investments. Which sports investment have you managed to control so far? The total cost of the Olympics will not only be 1-2 thousand billion, but it will be worth 3-4 thousand billion forints at the end. This is the size of another Paks nuclear power plant, and there is no guarantee in the bill that this will not happen. Think about the wet World Championship. It's right here in front of us, not so long ago, that we all don't remember that it's a major event, but it stays at the Olympics at the same time. The costs of the water vb are now terribly out of control. Initially, we all remember that they talked about 25 billion cost plans, when this proposal first came before us, it is now at nearly 100 billion. So it's quadrupled, and we're not at the end yet. We also managed to push this sporting event into the swamp of corruption, as we recently said when it was about that. What would happen in the case of an Olympics costing ten or twenty times more than this, and what terrible cost cuts would be expected there? The Olympic bill states that the costs of the Olympics, I quote, must ultimately be secured by the central budget. Even in such an otherwise noble sporting event, the government would unscrupulously make public money disappear. The Olympic Act presented would give us every opportunity to do so, and the hunger of the oligarchs of Fidesz-KDNP, we know, is inexhaustible. This is a warning case ahead of us, the Sochi Olympics, the pre-planned cost of $10 billion, which is approximately HUF 2800 billion, has climbed up to $51 billion, which is HUF 14,000 billion. Of this amount, according to estimates by various international organisations, 25-30 billion were removed by Russian oligarchs, as construction and other orders were distributed without public procurement, and this led to an amazing level of overpriced. For example, the construction costs of the largest stadium were raised 14 times on the move. And the bank account for the terrible distribution of money was paid 96 percent by the Russian taxpayers. The Hungarian economy, especially the construction sector, is dangerously similar to what is around Putin. In any case, the government's efforts point in this direction, so we can predict a similar level of public money loss in Hungary. According to LMP, this thousands of billion HUF would be much more suitable for education, health care, social care and wage increases. To give you just a few examples again, education is missing 250 billion forints per year compared to 2010 status. The official budget planned by the Fidesz-KDNP, which is about the Olympics, could be replaced three or four times in the lower voice by this deficit, which is now likely to grow even further with the total nationalization of schools, despite the fact that they gave HUF 77 billion to KLIK, if they had spent HUF 100 billion to run their schools, which they will no longer have the chance to do. This amount will be missing from the education budget next year, and obviously education will end up in bankruptcy. We don't spend much money on education, but we want an Olympics - but with what? There's plenty of room for that money in health care that we're talking about here. Healthcare has been a very neglected area for a very long time, and we have provided a number of data on how much this is so since 2010. I also said today in a speech before the agenda concerning the OEP. Since the economic crisis, the financing of this area has not recovered, and unfortunately, the change of government in 2010 has made this situation worse. The sector will be left in a catastrophic situation next year by the 2017 budget proposal, although the Parliamentary State Secretary of EMMI replied that the budget will increase by HUF 167 billion, but if we look at the budget as a whole, this will not increase at all in its shares and even reduce in terms of the supply system compared to the 2016 budget. The care of patients is not improved, doctors, nurses and colleagues are terribly overwhelmed, the shortage of professionals is increasing, the migration continues to increase. This is due to the fact that the state of hospitals remains tragic, fair financial values. Hospital debt increases by HUF 4.6 billion a month, and lack of assets and under-fundedness endanger the health of patients. Only 40 billion forints per year should be provided for the debt settlement of hospital institutions. The planned cost of organizing the Olympics, if only half of the planned ones, which could easily grow ten to twenty times, would be spent on the development of health care, would be greatly improved.774 billion forints, which is what the proposal is about, are planning to spend on the Olympics in a lower voice, but in fact, this is what they are planning to spend on the Olympics several times, and everyone knows this well in advance. In any recent Olympic Games, real costs have always increased very significantly compared to initially estimated costs. The day before, the ILO calculated that it would be possible to eliminate extreme poverty in Hungary from 0.01 percent of Hungarian GDP, or approximately 3.4 billion forints. This would be the amount to be transferred to ensure that no one lives on less than HUF 870 a day, which is, of course, a very modest amount, but this is the statistically necessary amount to make a minimum living. Obviously, a significant increase in poverty reduction would be needed, and from the HUF 774 billion, programmes could be launched that would not only help eradicate poverty but also prevent re-production. For example, the LMP could completely eliminate workers' poverty in Hungary from HUF 1400 billion. From this cost, the net minimum wage could be raised to the minimum level of living, family allowances and tax incentives extended to young people in higher education up to the age of 24, wage increases and career models in the public sector, reducing burdens on businesses and reducing VAT on basic foods. If we were to think of the cost of the Olympics as a safe escape, we would be comfortable with the need to eradicate workers' poverty, but there would also be plenty of resources to put education and health in order. Dear House, Not only because of the current state of the country, the settlement's huge cost and Fidesz-KDNP's policy to support corruption, LMP does not support the organisation of the 2024 Budapest Olympics. We have already said that we do not believe that these thousand billion-dollar costs will ever be repaid, on the one hand. On the other hand, we do not want the rural capital to increase further. The Olympics in Budapest would eliminate important rural developments that could otherwise be implemented. An Olympics must not be more important than the development of the countryside. Thirdly, the Olympic feasibility study does not deal at all with environmental conditions and with consequences that are related to this, and a Green Party will never support an Olympic settlement that does not care at all about avoiding negative environmental impacts and unruly environmental pressures. We have looked at the bill before us from a legal point of view, and we can make three statements. Firstly, part of the proposal is unnecessary ceremonialism, which has little to do with the regulatory function of the law. [[18.20]] Secondly - and this is already a bigger problem - unfortunately, the bill was prepared according to the well-established recipe of Fidesz-KDNP: except for the creation of a rule system that poses a serious threat to the responsible use of public money and to our cultural and natural heritage. Thirdly, the rules ensuring the protection of Olympic symbols, which, in my view, represent the only substantive part of the proposal that could be argued for the adoption of the bill, are the result of the 1981 international agreement on the protection of Olympic symbols, which Hungary also ratified in 2008. This is, of course, very small in comparison to the risks and dangers associated with the adoption of the proposal. Dear House, When we decided last year to apply for the event, the LMP also stressed that it was not anti-Olympian. We reject and will reject the plan to host the 2024 Olympics as long as the country is in this state, and they want to organise the Olympics under the conditions dominated by Fidesz-KDNP. The Olympic Act is about subjugating the Olympic settlement to all other aspects. More important than anything else is the organisation of the five-ring games of 2024, and in this connection the benefit of the oligarchs. I think we can't afford that. The country is currently not fit to host such an event. We have a million more important things to do. It would be nice if we could get there in a reasonable time to have an Olympics, but let's be clear, it's not due in 2024. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-05-24-160	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I give the floor to Congressman Szabó Szabolcs. Here you go.
u2016-05-24-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Although I might be more stylish to say a respected protocol writer, because there are about a dozen of us sitting in this room, so there is no too much interest in the subject, which is interesting because on the one hand we are talking about spending HUF 3000 billion in a lower voice - I am returning to the fact that there will be more if we win the tender - and on the other hand there are a lot more OEVK, Hungarian constituencies involved, and not only in Budapest but also in the countryside, and I thought that at least individual representatives would be here, but they seem to be less interested. It can also be seen that opposition representatives are more interested even in a small number of Members than in pro-government representatives. That is, of course, true, and I agree with what the rapporteur said that the Olympics themselves, the Olympic idea, are very important. I myself and almost all my friends have been very enthusiastic about cheering both at the Olympics and at the Paralympics since they host Paralympic games every four years. But it's a very different story when we talk about having an Olympics and an Olympics in a country, because everyone knows that it costs a lot of money. Since the beginning, the Joint has dealt with this project with reservations, not only because we believe that the country's economic state and current level of infrastructure supply is inadequate to settle an Olympics, and there are many goals that we believe are more important to the country than the Olympic Games, but also because I think the government has mistreated this matter from the outset. On the subject of the current item, the presentation by the pro-government representatives of how open this process was, and everyone here was involved. I'm telling you, we've been pushing for months with the Hungarian Olympic Committee to give us the study. They didn't give it to us, they said they wouldn't give it to us, because they don't think we're gonna support it, so we're not gonna get it. My colleague, Márton Pataki, has been writing a long time, talking to them personally, but they haven't given it to me. Then, when it was very difficult for us to get Attila Péterfalvi to issue a resolution that the feasibility impact assessment should be made public, it was posted on the Internet, but it was months after the decision was already made in Parliament. In Hungarian, it was decided that, for example, as a Member of Parliament, I was banned from seeing what we were voting on in any way. I hope that after all this, no one really expected me to vote for it. What do we know about the Olympics so far? On the one hand, it means that the entire budget plan is HUF 3000 billion. Some of this, as my fellow Member Ikotity said, is called a narrow or net cost, which is approximately HUF 1000 billion. He said about 780 billion because the proceeds will come from the sale of materials and other sales from the breakdown of certain competition sites, and technically this can be deducted, but in fact the cost will be around HUF 1000 billion in the narrow sense, and the cost of this Olympics, together with the basic or advanced investments, will be 3000 billion. I note only in parentheses that this is the cost of 30 new Gunner stadiums, where 2 million people could sit down at a given moment. So it's a huge amount of money. The next thing we know, there is no clear support for the Olympics in Hungary. Several public opinion polls have been conducted, and it seems that the situation is close to a draw, a few percent here and there the proportion of supporters and opponents according to the polls. Therefore, we automatically thought that the logical solution was to have a referendum on the matter. If we want to lose 3000 billion forints in a lower voice once, then let us ask those who add up this money, because it will not come from the Moon, it will be the Hungarian taxpayers who will have to ring the bell. But the government is not particularly interested in this. And what we have learned so far is that the Olympic Tender Committee has been established, and that the Olympian Guard Corps has been established, which will be legitimized by this law, which is led by Paul Schmitt, but I will come back to that in a little bit more detail. What's happening now? We've got this bill that's partly acting like we've already won the settlement, and it's getting pretty into the details. It's a little weird, but I can accept in my own right that they're trying to prove the validity of the application. Although what bothers me more is that I feel that, with the procedure and the regulatory elements that have been put in it, this bill is more likely to predict that, on the one hand, the costs will be brutally increased and, on the other hand, the exceptional procedural rules are already being laid down in advance, which is quite surprising, because we are not yet on the brink of 2024. Let us talk about these exceptional procedures. Same thing that's gonna happen with the water world. This proposal for an amendment of the law seems to allow exceptional construction rules to be grunged. The government will be able to establish specific construction rules. This is interesting, because there would be plenty of time to adapt the rules of settlement and construction in the usual timetable to meet the traditional conditions of urban planning and urban planning, but I'm telling you, it looks the same as in the case of the wet world, that they want to constantly create exceptional rules, and that is not how urban construction and urban planning operate in normal circumstances. Then they create a lot of new bodies. They legitimize the Olympian Guard Corps, which is literally described as a representative, coordinating, commentative and proposing body of people recognised and respected in Hungary. The head of this is a Hungarian member of the NOB. It was not written by name, but because the NOB has a Hungarian member, Pál Schmitt, it is obvious that Paul Schmitt will be the leader, who would be difficult to say that he is a person of public appreciation, because he himself assessed that the plagiarism of his doctoral dissertation is such a deep flight that he has to resign. [[18.30]] After all, it's a little weird that they're gonna put the law in charge of a community-respecting body. That might have been worth thinking about. In order to avoid misunderstanding, it is not a question of doubting his athletic performance, but of proving himself as President of the Republic that he had to resign. Then let's move on. There will be an Olympic Conciliation Forum, where the Olympic Committee and the Government will negotiate. From now on, I wouldn't take it as such a serious body. Budapest 2024 Nonprofit Zrt. will be created, which will also be responsible for the application, organisation and after-production. The interesting thing is that the capital and the Hungarian Olympic Committee will be the owner of this in half and half, while the costs will be borne by the budget. Despite this, the capital and the MOB will be the two main owners. By the way, speaking of costs, it was said here that they would try to solve what they could, of course, from sources other than budgetary resources. But it is quite clear that this is not going to work very well, it is also apparent from the feasibility study that it will be largely direct budget financing. The proposal is now tricked into solving it from Tao resources, but it is also clearly public money, even if it is not direct budget support, but public money. I mean, it's made out of a tax forint that doesn't go into the budget with the government's permission. They give it to someone. This is quite clear that it can actually be regarded as direct public money and transferred to budgetary money. Obviously, donations will not go very well for the Olympics or for the competition. By the way, speaking of costs, I've had several hits in my ears that they were talking about all sorts of profitable arrangements, and someone here said that Barcelona, for example, was a profitable Olympics. I'd just like to tell you that I've been browsing through the data. There were no very profitable Olympics, just one or two. Speaking of Barcelona, the related infrastructure investments in Barcelona only cost EUR 5 billion, plus in other PPP schemes, 7 billion were added and the cost of organizing and organizing started from there. So, the thing is, Olympics aren't really profitable. Some of the people who approached this were one or two who had turned over at least, but all of them were carried out through private funding. It's not gonna be like this, because it's clear that we're doing it out of public money, and it's never gonna be profitable in life. It's always the way to think about it when we talk about it. In addition, they often refer to those who refer to a profitable arrangement that, as economists say, will generate revenue from this multiplier effect, as people go to a hairdresser, go to a restaurant, spend from it, and generate GDP from it. It's just that this money doesn't come from the moon, but we'd spend it anyway, just for something else, and the same effect would still happen. For example, if we spend it on education, for example, on health care, for example, if we spend it on catching up in rural areas, then that income will be generated in the same way, not in the context of the Olympics, but, for example, in education, health, or in rural areas. So it's a methodological error, if that's what you're referring to. Here, the maximum revenue from tourism is what is considered to be plus, plus some other relatively smaller items. The point is, I'm sure it won't be profitable. Then it is very interesting that the government will set up the Olympic Feasibility Authority, which can acquire ownership of the State, acquire ownership, invest in infrastructure. The government can point to anything and say that this is a major Olympic issue, and from now on they are preparing exactly the process that we see on the water world, that sooner or later they will remember that, yeah, then they should create a legislative amendment so that they can depart from public procurement rules, then Market Zrt. can quickly be entrusted with an invitational tender to build this or that company of Lőrinc Mészáros, that, oh, we should build a small railway, then build it quickly. They're preparing the soil for this, it's basically about stretching and filling pockets. It's very clear. Because if they took it seriously, then all the geographic numbers they want to define as major Olympic investments would be in this bill by now. In principle, what is already known, based on the feasibility impact assessment, is the specific investments needed, where would be, the location number and the budget. But there's no news of it, no ashes in this law, of all this information. What's most interesting is that, by the way, with regard to refugees, the government that is very concerned about our sovereignty is so insidious to the NOB with this bill that only na. Technically, the IOC, the IOC institutions, the results and timing companies will have their obligations abolished, the entry conditions for the Olympics will be greatly facilitated. And this is not about the contestants, because of course, the contestants, the coaches, and the rest, let them come, but the employees, the companies who do not have a place here, who will be involved in this whole process, can come in with a smooth, light procedure. A significant public and private event during the Olympic Games, i.e. during the summer Olympics and the Paralympics, and in one week before and after it, cannot be held in Hungary. They're giving me a government guarantee. So to forbid a private event from giving a government guarantee? Or how is it that the marketing interests of the NOB are so focused on small and medium-sized enterprises that they will virtually erase Hungarian companies from any activity that is even a bit related to the Olympics, even advertising platforms will be acquired near the locations. So, this proposal is simply absurd and unacceptable. It fits the process of Fidesz organizing or organizing major sporting events. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-24-162	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We now have a two-minute speech. Congressman Márius Révész applied for a two-minute speech, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2016-05-24-163	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I must say, it was expected that such a comment would be made. In fact, we could recall that we have heard the comment of the "dare to be small." In fact, if you had thought about what you said a few years ago or a century ago, our predecessors would have decided the same way, then there wouldn't have been Parliament, Kossuth Square, or the city was rebuilt here, let's say, at the turn of the previous century. Ladies and gentlemen, I think Barcelona is a good example. Because Congressman is right that if, say, the Olympics are of direct benefit to us, how much they brought in that year, and we compare it with expenditure, then the number you said will come out. But actually, after Venice today, Barcelona is the city in the world where tourism is the largest in terms of population. And if you've read the analysis on this, basically everyone says it's definitely because of the Olympics. And the consequences of the Olympics are that the investments in Barcelona that had to be made and that they would have made over the next 20-30-40 years have brought the city together and rebuilt and become one of the wonders of the world. Once again, after Venice, the biggest tourism per capita. You took that opportunity. So it is not that the 400 billion forints that arrive directly at the Olympics will be balanced with expenditure. But if we add that, let's say, in the next 10-15 years, as the study has calculated what revenue this can generate for Budapest, it means that it is very, very, very worth it and can be a very good business. Without a doubt, my fellow Member is right that there are Olympics where they have not dealt with post-utilisation - see Beijing. Some have not dealt with the costs - see Athens, Rio de Janeiro. But I think that Budapest is in an uplifting phase. See how the city is built. I think that an Olympics resolution, if we do this carefully and wisely, can make a very big contribution.
u2016-05-24-164	Despite the important issue, I respectfully ask you to abide by the house rules. Congressman Szabolcs Szabó in two minutes.
u2016-05-24-165	Thank you very much. Congressman! It's like he wasn't listening to me when I was talking. We didn't say anything about being small. I mentioned that I was very rooting for the Olympics myself, and, by the way, I would definitely be a fan of an Olympics under normal circumstances. [[18.40]] Because of the examples you mentioned, they're a little limping. Around the 1880s and 90s Hungary was a dynamically developing country, and the countryside also developed very dynamically, the rural cities also developed dynamically, and there was no mention of a large investment in infrastructure at some points in Budapest, but of the Hungarian economy. So it's not about that. All I've said, and I still hold it to this day, is to be a dynamically developing country for the first time, and then when the conditions are set and given, it's possible to settle an Olympics, which, by the way, costs a lot of money. But I think that catching up on rural areas and improving education and health care is perhaps a little more important now. One thing made me think of. Although it is a small matter, it struck my attention with regard to the author that Gergely Gulyás mentioned that Europe is coming anyway, and that is why we have a great chance of holding the Olympics. I looked into it directly, there is an informal geographical rotation system, and I do not know if my fellow Members know that this is not official, and according to the unofficial geographical rotation system, North America would otherwise be coming. By the way, I took a direct look at the feasibility impact study on page 18 of Chapter I as a counterargument. However, it is possible to deviate from that, but I will ask Gergely Gulyás not to refer to it, because that is not exactly true. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-24-166	Speaking to the representatives of Mr Sándor Hadházy, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2016-05-24-167	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Here in the debate on the water world, it was said that the budget that was adopted earlier would go far beyond what was expected to be the event. I would like to inform the Parliament with respect that the organisation of the water World Championship from the planned budget will take place. In recent years, developments that have already been decided have been involved and promoted in parallel with the World Water Championship budget. I would also like to highlight the extension of the terminal at Ferihegy airport. We know that tourism is on a very good track, and every year the volume of tourism, the number of guest nights, the central budget revenues from tourism, and of course we are pleased that tourists and entrepreneurs working in tourism can also be significantly strengthened. However, there are some factors that hinder further development and which already significantly interfere with current traffic. Anyone who has used the services of the terminals in Ferihegy in the past has encountered the problem of having to wait in a large, steel-framed hotel, which is not designed for passenger traffic, not to sit, but often to stand for half an hour with children, heat and other conditions that are far from worthy of the service. That is why this investment has been fully brought forward by the government, and I personally am very pleased that this investment will be carried out either under the pretext of the water world or under other considerations. The other, which also concerns the costs related to the water World Championship, is that in the area of the Dagály spa, partly in its area, the central facility is built next to it, but the Dagály bath would have remained in its condition in which it is currently visible. I think that for the capital, the XIII. for the district, it is important for all of us to eliminate this contrast, and in parallel with the water world, there is also a development that is needed. And these examples could also be mentioned. The Olympics are not primarily a budget line for me, as the project involved not only the necessary and necessary improvements to the Olympics, but also the related development of the road network, bridge building, infrastructure development, residential development, dormitory development, development of sports areas, development of public areas and more. I am convinced that these items are necessary. I am convinced that these developments will benefit the capital and the country. It is possible to argue when these improvements should be implemented. I think that the implementation of such a large-scale programme must withstand these developments. These developments are necessary for the country and the capital. The Olympics should not be interpreted as a sporting event, but as a territorial development project, which, of course, we will be happy to fill with sporting events. For this reason, I think it is extremely important that the Olympics succeed, that our Olympic application be successful, and that we are given the opportunity to bring these ideas, these improvements, and these plans to success. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-24-168	Dear Parliament, Of course, all Members can exercise their right and opportunity to speak, only Members who have already spoken, they wish to speak in the most diverse form; now for a two-minute speech Szabolcs Szabó, then Márius Révész, asking for a normal word. I understand the nice pace of this, and I have a sense of rhythm, and I just want to follow the house rules, and we're waiting for thoughts that haven't been spoken yet. Congressman Szabó, two minutes!
u2016-05-24-169	Thank you very much. I would like to respond to your comment before me. On the one hand, I am an area and settlement developer in terms of my qualifications, and that is why I was struck by the ear when the Member said that this should be seen as a territorial development project. Of course, this type of event can be considered as a territorial development project. In fact, we agree that we should, but territorial development is not about that, by the way, but I would just like to indicate that we are developing the most advanced part of the country from HUF 3000 billion. It's not right here. If we wanted to evaluate this as a territorial development project, we would take sports events to the least developed part of the country. This is not what will happen in this case, there will be very few rural locations here, and most of the resources will be concentrated specifically on Budapest, so the Olympics will increase territorial inequalities, and if an intervention has this effect, it cannot be regarded as a means of territorial development in this context. Barcelona was, of course, not the most advanced part of Spain at the time of the Olympics, and that is why, for example, Barcelona contributed to the development of Barcelona, but it was just a professional comment. On the other hand, what you said about the budget of the floating-vb, water World Championship, I would like to suggest that you look at the Government resolution of 1750/2013, it contains fourteen billion pairs of hundreds of million forints as the budget of the project, and we have reached 90 billion in comparison, and otherwise, the declared direct costs also cost forty-nine billion in all. Thank you very much. [[18.50]]
u2016-05-24-170	Congressman Márius Révész, Fidesz!
u2016-05-24-171	Dear Parliament, I just want to make a quick comment. Listening to the debate, I remembered that there was nothing new under the sun. The older one remembers that, in the early 1990s, the same debates were actually held here in Parliament, and then the local authorities took a fierce part in the debate. The whole point of the debate was whether there should be a world exhibition in Hungary or not. It was still that the MDF and the right said yes, yes, because the breakout point was a great opportunity. Technically, the arguments that have now been made here in Parliament specifically against the Olympics were the same in the early 1990s. If we looked back at those debates, we could see that practically the front lines stood up the same way and the same thing happened. The same argument that you said last time that Budapest was developing should be concentrated in the countryside, I say that twenty-some years ago it was exactly the same among the walls of Parliament. Of course, it can be said that Fidesz was at that time in a different position, and contrary to the MDF, he was opposed to this at the time, but I have to say that if we look at it, we do need break-out points. Indeed, those who fear for the balance of the budget have the truth, but let me just say that there are, in fact, various balances. An MDF economist friend of mine told me that death is also a steady state, but we don't want to live in it to live with some confusion. The thing is, I think that an Olympic event could help the capital, and I think that this could draw the country to a higher level of equilibrium. The Member and other Members have spoken about various developments, which are expected in connection with the water World Championship. I have to say that a significant part of these developments, which are included in the HUF 90 billion, is not directly related to the World Championship, but we are talking about improvements that would otherwise be advisable to make as quickly as possible. Ask XIII. district socialist mayor to the urban development decisions which are in the XIII. They concern the district, whether he is personally happy or not. I'm convinced you'll say yes. Of course, we can count on the cost of the Olympics to finally link Csepel Island to a proper bridge with Pest, not only with Pest, but also with Buda, where today there is no way to go from Csepel Island, even though it is a district of Budapest. Is that a waste of money? This development, ladies and gentlemen, I think it should be done completely independently of the Olympics. If you were asked, say, the Csepel representative body or the citizens of Csepel, what would you say if you finally had a bridge on which you could go to Pest and Buda, everyone would say that you would enjoy it in a fantastic way. They would also be very pleased that if this transport link were to be established, the price of the property in Csepel would increase very significantly in the coming period, regardless of everything. That is why I think it would be worth doing a different calculation, although there is obviously little chance of doing so in the relation of the opposition party. For when some road is being renovated in connection with the water vb, we immediately report the costs, and we write enthusiastic articles on the Index, in other media, that, well, how much the water vb budget has increased, not considering that the original budget and this were completely different. So it would be worth considering a budget calculation, both on the pro-government and opposition sides, that from the investments that we make, see, for example, the Gubacsi Bridge, it is only related to the Olympics, and would be a useful investment without the Olympics, which would otherwise serve the development of the city. I think that if we did this separation, it would turn out that nothing else would happen - and I am not saying that nothing else is going to happen - but that a very large part of the development will undoubtedly be a type that will definitely serve Budapest as a modern European city. The Member also said in his last comment that Barcelona was a poorer part of Spain. [[Szabolcs Szabó: I said he's not the richest!]] However, I must say that Catalonia has always belonged to the most advanced part of Spain, the most advanced part. [[Dr. János Fónagy: That's right!]] Therefore, the main demand has always been to leave a large part of the tax revenue in Catalonia and to develop the other regions of Spain from a smaller part of the tax revenue, which is now quite firmly formulated in relation to independence efforts. Yet everyone says that the whole region, Barcelona, this Olympics has generated incredible progress. I would also like to highlight one more thing. Sport facilities, which are effective, directly linked to the Olympics, will have a significant share. If there's an Olympics or not, we'll have the swimming pool because of the wet World Championship. That's definitely positive. If there are Olympics, or not, there will be a new stadium in place of the Puskás Ferenc Stadium. So you don't have to spend any more on these. For this reason, I believe that if we are wise and hope to be wise, we can make improvements here that generate the development of Budapest. The consequence will be that it will be a more livable city, a European city where housing and property prices rise. So homeowners will have more value for their apartments, a sought-after European city, where traffic is growing, and not only in 2024 but also in the coming period this development will have a huge impact on Budapest's life. My fellow Members who opposed it are undoubtedly right to do this wrong. A lot of people did it wrong. They've recovered in Beijing, I've seen them, sports facilities, swimming pools that, by the way, have been on the 30th of the dogs since then, they're not used, they're somewhere on the edge of town. We've seen these photos. But I think if you look at the plans that you've been able to put on the table, you'll find that's not the case here. Here, pretty much all the developments that are planned are organically integrated into the city's fabric, and all the developments could be used in the coming years and decades. I urge my fellow Members to think this through. Money is coming directly, its indirect effect will be felt for many decades in Hungary, and it is worth setting the budgetary equilibrium a little higher or higher. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-24-172	Mr István Ikotity is next for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2016-05-24-173	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, They spent a long time on the example of the Barcelona Olympics. If you look at the Olympics of the state-of-the-art era, compared with the settlements that organised this, you can see that there were very, very few settlements where they ended up making real profit from their direct costs. On the other hand, if you look at the often mentioned Barcelona Olympic Games, it is also worth looking at the fact that 47 percent of the £8.1 billion that the Olympics cost came from the private sector, i.e. from the support of businesses, not from some kind of state aid. That's very important to add. I am asking you not to highlight a single Olympics, because there are quite a few examples of recent decades. Overall, if you look, as you say, at the benefit of the country - whether they have brought loss or profit to the country in question, I would ask you to do so in a complex way. It may be able to make progress in some areas. A number of arguments have been made here, so I ask that we do not take an example and build a whole concept on the basis of it, but that we be more realistic and look at it more widely, let us see that this is not at all milky. There's a much greater chance, not considering that this could actually be a success, that it might go wrong. It's not the lack of hope that tells me that, it's the experience. There were one or two Olympics that could actually generate a profit for the settlement, but at national level, it is not even certain that it is profitable. There are serious debates about this. Thank you. [[19.00]]
u2016-05-24-174	I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. On behalf of the authors, Mr István Hollik points out that he wishes to react. Here you go.
u2016-05-24-175	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President, and I am trying, according to the sense of rhythm, to keep this bill short. On the one hand, I would like to thank you for the fact that the parties were more restrained and more restrained than in other debates, and this is also important in the context of the settlement of the Olympics, so I would like to thank you for that. As I would also like to thank you for the comments, which, even if they were excessive, and I will try to point out here briefly that they did not necessarily take into account the objective reality, but they also reflected the citizens' doubts on which I think it is worth reflecting. Here, I have drawn up three packages of different speeches and speeches on the bill and on the Olympic tender. The first is the question of the public, because Szabolcs Szabó also touched on the fact that he could not or was having difficulty getting the application. As has been said, this is now available to everyone, and I would like to highlight this because, as I said earlier, none of the applicants, apart from us, have made the application material fully available, not Rome, not Paris, not Los Angeles, only part of their application, only part of their feasibility study, not the entire tender documentation. We have done this, precisely to ensure that our proposal is transparent and transparent. I would also like to draw the Member's attention - this was said at the five-party meeting, and it is also good for the public to know this - that Prime Minister Balázs Fürjes, who is also the head of the tender, sent an invitation to all parliamentary parties, in which he assured them that he would be available at any time. By the way, he also sent an invitation to the Ensemble that he would be happy to report on the application at any time, and that, of course, if you have questions, he would also try to answer that. And as he confirmed at the five-party meeting, despite the fact that no feedback from the parties on this offer has been received by the opposition parties, but he will continue to maintain it and even confirm it once more. So I would encourage you to invite Commissioner Balázs Fürjes if you have any questions. I hope you won't smile at this, but you will take advantage of this opportunity. The other thing that has been said here many times, and this was a perfectly legitimate suggestion that the most important test of our Olympic proposal was, in fact, life and fate, that the water vb would be, and in this connection, misconceptions were made, which I would like to briefly put in place in the closing word. With one forint, it doesn't cost any more to perform the water World Championship than it did in the preliminary plans. Indeed, there are early investments, but I would like to say once again that these are advanced investments, I could say here the renovation of the lower quay of Pesti, the renovation or development of the Imperial-Komjad swimming pool or the BVSC swimming pool. By the way, the latter does not fit in the line because it is provided by BVSC from its own resources. But, anyway, these are advanced investments that would have been made anyway, so they can be calculated and used as opposition arguments. But what you have to see is that no one is responsible for saying that the development of the lower quay in Pest would not otherwise be necessary without a water vb. That is why it can be said that for the time being, we see that the costs of the water world can be maintained. When it comes to what most people have been talking about, and obviously to all Hungarian citizens, if they have doubts about the Olympics, it is about the finances involved. I'd like to say a few words here. I'm sorry, I've written down one more thing that's very important. This is where the airport investment was made in connection with the water vb. I would also like to say that in the Water Worlds Act, the airport has a landmark number, but no cost. This is very important. So Budapest Airport will fully cover it at its own expense, so there will not be a single HUF state forint or tax forint in it. It is an investment of its own, it was put into the law only to enable this development to be implemented more quickly in the process, and in any case for the wet world, the new passenger shirt that will be built there should be available to passengers. Now, back to the costs: a lot of numbers were thrown here, it is worth relying on the feasibility study in this respect. It is quite clear that the candidate wants to spend HUF 774 billion specifically on the Olympics, and I think we can clear the financials by saying that we look at the investments that would not be needed without the Olympics, and this is HUF 774 billion. So it costs HUF 774 billion to conduct the Olympics, and in this it has costs that would not really be needed without the Olympics. Everything else you mentioned - by the way, I don't know where you're getting the three thousand billion forints, it doesn't appear anywhere; it sounds good, but it doesn't appear anywhere else - these are costs for which we would also be talking about earlier investments. It is very important, I think it is strong that, if you look at it, it fully fits all state, municipal or territorial development strategies, so there is no other investment in the Olympic tender, which would otherwise not be in line with the municipal or state objectives. So it can be said that this is three thousand billion forints, but no one can seriously think that if, for example, the renovation of the M3 metro would not be necessary without the Olympics. Or to say to our fellow Member Szabó about his constituency, Csepel, don't let every Csepelian citizen think seriously that otherwise there is no need for the Csepel Bridge. So the cost of this can be calculated, but the municipality of Csepel planned this investment anyway, so it would be necessary anyway, as the renovation of Metro M3 is indeed necessary. So the amount of these can be calculated, only to be taken into account that they are necessary anyway. The other question was what is the guarantee that the Olympics will be sustainable, and that if we start from this, we will be able to clarify that this is indeed HUF 774 billion, then what guarantees that it will actually cost that much, and whether the candidate will pay attention to sustainability. I would just like to say a few things about that. On the one hand, Jobbik's suggestion was to become part of some kind of rental program. I would like to say to your satisfaction that the feasibility study includes the media village, which will build the buildings of the media village in such a way that it can be rented at a later stage, or in a rental program for civil servants and civil servants, or in a ownership program, so that these properties will be available with a smaller transformation. So this aspect is also included. The other is a matter of accommodation. Indeed, as Márius Révész mentioned, there were bad examples of hotels raised by weeds two months after the Olympics in many places. The feasibility study also shows that the applicant does not want to build hotels, to build hotel capacities that could not be used after the Olympics. Therefore, there are hotel ships in the tender, which can be brought here, already existing ships, which can be converted into hotel ships with a smaller transformation, and then they can be taken away, and there will be no torso of any unused hotel in the city. [[19.10]] It also strengthens sustainability, and it is worth pointing out that the Olympic Heritage Authority is also included in the bill before us, in particular. This is precisely because the very important aspect of Agenda 2020 is that only institutions that can be maintained in some way by the state or by anyone in the future, and the Olympics themselves become sustainable. Thus, the inclusion of the Olympic heritage authority in this bill in this way, or such an emphasis in the proposal, also strengthens the ability to say that this proposal and the entire Hungarian Olympic tender are seeking sustainability. And then a few more numbers to reassure doubt. The Olympic tender expects that between 2017 and 2025 the improvements that would be implemented anyway, but if the tender wins, they will be able to achieve it, the annual HUF 140 billion plus GDP growth for Hungary. And if you have already said 3000 billion forints as such, then I would like to say that it is also included in the feasibility study that this 3000 billion is included, not as an expense, but as an income. After all, for a 15-year period, the study calculated that this would be HUF 1100 billion in additional revenue for the state, an additional HUF 900 billion in household revenue, and an additional HUF 1100 billion in entrepreneurial revenue for the organisation and conduct of the Olympics. In view of all of this, I think that the proposal meets both the conditions of Agenda 2020 and responds to the real legitimate doubts that my fellow Members have mentioned here, and I would like to ask once again that, on the one hand, we support the bill before us, and, on the other hand, I encourage you all to demonstrate our openness, the openness of the authors, if you have an amendment to the bill, we look forward to it and we will build it up. I would like to point out once again that Jobbik has indicated, for example, that the issue of safety in relation to the implementation of the Olympics should be given greater emphasis in the bill, for example, because we can see that security risks in Europe are unfortunately increasing at rocket speed, and therefore the issue of security must be more concentrated in the proposal and also in this bill. We see this as a very constructive and legitimate observation, and we will integrate it into the proposal. But I really ask everyone that this should not be an obstacle to support; that if they have any suggestions, we look forward to it. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-05-24-176	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The amendments will be submitted, and I will inform you that Thursday will be at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, It follows that the general discussion of the bill on the free transfer of state-owned property for the purpose of carrying out the municipal public service mission will follow until the closure of the bill. Presentation by Márius Révész, representative of Fidesz T/10715. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Congressman Márius Révész, the author of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2016-05-24-177	Dear Parliament, I promise you that I will be very brief that the very few slippages in which Parliament is today compared to the draft will be brought in, so I would just like to say a few words to justify my proposal. Kőbánya is a city of parks, and many do not know that Kőbánya is one of the largest green areas in Budapest. It's enough to think that there's Népliget, the Oh One Park, the Sports Park, and many people are counting the New Public Cemetery as a green surface. However, there is a small park, the Tchaikovsky park, which has been tended by the local government since the change of regime, so in the autumn, when the leaves fall, the municipal company collects the leaves, the avar, the local government's company cuts the grass; when it turns out that according to the new standards the playgrounds are dangerous, the municipality removes the playthings; when the bitumen of the football field is accident-threatening, the municipality cast a new bitumen field, a football field or basketball court in the Tchaikovsky Park. When a statue was stolen, the municipality replaced the statue, and there was still a long list of different stories that the municipality had done in its entirety. This park operated as if it had been owned by a municipality, but in fact this park was not owned by a municipality. To these requests, if we were very strict, we should have actually always asked for a public contribution to break down, transform, correct, or build a new orbit, not an accident-threatening course. In addition, the State Audit Office could also discuss, say, why the municipality spends on someone else's property, even if we could bill it anyway, i.e. the municipality of Kőbánya could bill the State for the sums it has spent on the state-owned park, but I think it would be inappropriate and inappropriate. That is why the idea arose, as the park is in rather bad condition, the municipality has bought the surrounding areas, and here we want to create a renewed public park. This park's fence is in extremely bad condition, the whole park is in extremely bad condition, it could definitely use a bigger renewal, but I think that the municipality would only be able to do so if this park were transferred to municipal property, to municipal authority, and in this case, this park would be renovated and repaired by the Municipality of Kőbánya in the next year or two. That is why I respectfully ask my fellow Members to support this decision. I'm sure there are still a number of parks, public areas, state-owned, for which it would be very, very difficult to find a reason why these areas should be held in state-owned. It would be much more appropriate if these areas were to be owned by local governments. I was pleased to hear that the government has such an intention to look at the areas, parks that once remained state-owned in the context of the complex acts of the regime change rather than municipal property. So, Honourable Parliament, I would like to ask that you support this decision overall, and I would also like to propose in advance that, if there is a decision in the autumn or in the near future, when something similar is to be made in general, not only for this one park but also for several areas, my fellow Members will also support it. Thank you for listening.
u2016-05-24-178	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask on behalf of the government... [[For signal:]] Mr. Secretary of State says it's up to the Secretary of State.
u2016-05-24-179	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We have reviewed the bill tabled by Congressman Márius Révész, and we agree with its objectives and reasons. Tchaikovsky Park is a real estate monument with a larger ownership of its undivided joint property, a smaller share of its ownership belongs to the Hungarian State, to the Municipality of Kőbánya in the Budapest X. district, and to two individuals. The municipality of Kőbánya has already initiated the takeover of the public ownership on several occasions, the property is listed in the real estate register as a public park, and therefore constitutes exclusive state property under the provisions of the National Property Act. [[19.20]] By the way, to inform my fellow Members, this brewery complex, its associated park, monuments, its cellar system, i.e. both the district and the capital, but I think it is also an industrialally unical area from the point of view of the country. In the coming years, the municipality intends to completely renovate the park, which will thus be one of the major cultural values of the district, taking into account what has just been said. In any case, it is appropriate to establish clear ownership. To a large extent, the bill proposes the granting of free municipal ownership of state-owned state property in the Csajkovsky Park of Kőbánya under historic protection. Under the law on national assets, if the law determines the task of the local government as a task of another local government or as a task of the state or as a task of the local government, the transfer of the local government or state property directly serving and necessary to the recipient of the task shall be carried out free of charge. This provision also applies in the event that the State or the municipality delegates a task which forms part of the public mission and that ownership of the property directly serving and necessary for the performance of this public task is transferred free of charge. In the light of the legislation of the cultural heritage sector, the government of Kőbánya is responsible for maintaining the monument on the basis of scientific research on real estate, the use of historical buildings, in which a credible restoration of monument values can also be achieved. In addition to heritage considerations, the transfer of free property is further strengthened by the common ownership of the property covered by the bill and by the fact that the property has indeed been maintained for a longer period by the municipality and that the State does not have any exploitation plans for the park. The management, development and operation of local public spaces and parks are defined by the Act on Local Local Governments of Hungary as the responsibility of the district municipality. Dear House, The government has started preparing a comprehensive regulatory proposal for public parks. In our view, the situation of the undivided joint-owned parks should be resolved in this regard in the first place, as in the Tchaikovsky Park, but we are also looking at the possibility of the transfer of 100% state-owned parks into municipal ownership. In our view, the public properties concerned should also be examined in the light of the way in which they can be maintained and operated and their ownership transferred to the local government and whether they are justified from the point of view of asset management. The preparation of the comprehensive regulatory proposal should therefore also examine the range of parks that remain justified in the long term ownership of the public. As an example, the Erzsébet Square in Budapest, which is a state-owned park under the applicable law, and the law expressly states that the operation of Erzsébet Square as a public park is a state task. Dear Parliament, In line with the foregoing, we support the objective of the bill as part of the proposal to be submitted to this House during the autumn session, and we call for this House to support it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-24-180	Thank you very much. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I will ask if someone from the Fidesz Group wishes to speak separately. [[No one's reporting.]] No; since the author is a member of the Fidesz fraction, I think it is an agreed opinion. Congressman Dezső, who is gullible, is the leading speaker of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2016-05-24-181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Member, Let's face it, this is not a normal item on the agenda. In the house of the country, we usually deal with issues affecting the majority of society in the form of legislative proposals, and the author of these issues is usually the government or some government body. In this case, this is not what is happening, because in your proposal, it is the interests of a smaller community, not of a larger social group, and not of a government body, although we have heard that the government supports your vision, and you, as a Member of Parliament, have acted in this case, I suspect, obviously in a manner agreed with the government or the local government. I think there's nothing wrong with that in my opinion, although it's unusual. Obviously, there must have been some reason why this wasn't done in another way, but that it was done by a Member of Parliament, and I think that this is what it is. There are two different types of property, state and municipal property, although both fall within the scope of national property, and, to my knowledge, there is a possibility between the two forms of property that public property can be transferred free of charge to the municipality and municipal property to the State. Something doesn't work here, I think, and that's why you needed to intervene in this regard. My fellow Member, your proposal is realistic. I think that this is quite often the case in the life of the municipalities: a local government has ideas, and if it was able to create resources for these ideas, then I think it is entirely logical that it is trying to achieve them - I sense that this could have happened in the present case - and it was obviously necessary for your intervention, for your help, in order to settle the ownership. I also sense that you have tried to act in the interest of a community, and I think that, if you consider why and what you have done, it is a Eligible idea that you have formulated in the form of a bill, especially if it is an area which, in its current form, is unexploited or parlaged, and someone is trying to exploit it, in this case, the municipality. Congressman, your situation is not unique. That is what you were trying to point out when you noted that it is possible that in the next few years we may be able to find such a suggestion in the case of parks. Your bill made me think. I, too, am a Member of Parliament, in my parliamentary constituency there is a spookily similar situation: the municipality has ideas, it has been able to create resources for its ideas, and these ideas serve the interests of a smaller community as well as yours. The municipality intends to build a service house and rent apartments in a large residential estate, the Gidófalvy-Csángó residential estate - I think this is also unique, but I think this can also be defined as a community goal. This area is almost entirely owned by the municipality, it is precisely owned by the state, it has 78/5390 parts of state-owned, of negligible magnitude, in nature it is practically, I think, a 40-square-meter room, which has been completely unused in recent years, has not been used for anything, is practically ruined. The municipality has tried to take a number of steps to implement its ideas, a multi-billion-dollar investment, and the people living there can use this service house. I think that, since this is hauntingly similar to what you said, and we have jointly established that it is a correct effort that you thought it was, I think that both I and the faction understand your behaviour and we support your goals. Please do the same with what I have tabled as an amending proposal, and I will present this in this amending proposal, leaving your proposal untouched, but supplemented by what I have just said. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-05-24-182	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs, notary of the Parliament, is next. Here you go. [[19.30]]
u2016-05-24-183	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Márius Révész! The Jobbik faction will support this proposal, even because, at the time, in the municipality, our representative supported this initiative at the time. What our fellow Member has said here, I can only add that, indeed, the national wealth law has so narrowed the framework, it defines it so strangely, and in other cases, when it was the transfer of national assets from state to local government, it was still necessary to provide legal frameworks for it, without which it cannot be resolved. So, yes, it's strange that we have to deal with this in the case of a given park and acting in the interest of a local government. But the national wealth law gives us the authority to do so, so that's it. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-24-184	Thank you very much. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There's no independent congressman in the room, no one's applied for a two-minute speech. I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. I ask Mr Révész, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to react. [[On the mark of Márius Révész:]] Yes, please.
u2016-05-24-185	Yes, thank you, very briefly. Thank you for your support. By the way, I also think that it would be appropriate to deal with these matters, as Mr Secretary said, with a comprehensive law. I, too, find it very likely that this is not the only public park, which, during the change of regime, in 1990, became a state property instead of municipal property. Moreover, we are forced to deal with this, as Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs said, because public parks cannot be passed on from government ownership to municipal property, so Parliament's decision is absolutely necessary. I am very pleased to hear the words of the Secretary of State that, after this initiative, the government will consider it, and after examining these public parks, we will be able to address this issue in a comprehensive manner in the autumn. At the same time, I would like this decision not to take place in the autumn, since the Municipality of Kőbánya would be able to start work sooner if it were adopted at this session. I have to say that, while I agree with my fellow Member, Mr Dezső, and in a sense, the case he raised and the case that I have tabled are quite similar, there is a small difference between them. This is a non-trafficking public park, which I am talking about, the problem raised by the Reliable Member is a little different. All I can promise you is that I am theoretically in favour of his suggestion, but I am not sure that in such a case, Parliament's decision is necessary, because it is not a public park that is named by the law, and it says that it can only be handed over by parliamentary decision. I think that there is no need for a parliamentary decision in order to resolve the issue that Mr Reliable has just raised, because the law only lists public parks as state property which cannot otherwise be transferred to the municipality without a parliamentary decision. So in theory, I support the idea of my fellow Member Dezső, but I do not think that this should be resolved within the framework of this law. Thank you so much for listening.
u2016-05-24-186	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CXCVI on national assets follows a series of steps. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Government referral T-10718. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr János Fónagy, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2016-05-24-187	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, According to the Fundamental Law, cultural values are the common heritage of the nation, the protection, maintenance and preservation of which for future generations is the duty of the state and everyone. The Fundamental Law states that the State and the local government own national property. On 23 December 2011, the National Assembly passed the National Property Act, as laid down in the Fundamental Law of Hungary, and since its entry into force, national wealth has been managed within the framework of this fundamental law. Its provisions define the requirements for the preservation, protection and responsible management of national assets, as well as the scope of the exclusive ownership and exclusive economic activity of the State and the local government, as well as the limits and conditions for the disposal of national assets which are of high national importance. The Act on National Property II. The national assets listed in Annex II to the Act, which are of national importance for the national economy, are subject to a prohibition on disposal and debiting with the exceptions laid down in the Act, shall not be secured and shall not be created. Quoting Kálmán Mikszáth: and these castles are mansions! Take off your hat, traveler, if you see these old piles of rocks. From this nest begin and come together the threads that together will become history. *Dear House! Our built heritage is one of the most important parts of the national cultural heritage. Monuments play a particularly important role in boosting Hungarian and foreign cultural and leisure tourism, shaping country image, rural development, job creation. This has an impact on economic recovery and helps to strengthen local communities and national awareness. Within the national monuments, castles and castles are of particular importance for cultural heritage and national identity, and in particular castle architecture is inseparable from the cultural environment in which it was created. It expresses the life form it represents, carries the elements of the tangible and intellectual heritage associated with it, and, together with the interior and external design of the castle, it represents the total artistic performance of its time. Accordingly, castles are perhaps the most valuable segment of state-owned monuments. The potential of state-owned castles which are considered to be national assets of national importance for the national economy should be reviewed and re-assessed. To this end, the government adopted the concept of the national castle and national fortress programme, which decided on the reconstruction and development of all 79 castles and castles. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, At present, the following castles and castles included in the national castle programme and national castle programme adopted by the government are not within the national wealth sphere of national importance for the national economy. The Tisza Castle, the Geist Castle in Kondoros, the Széchenyi Castle in Sopronhorpács, the Batthyány-Wenckheim Castle in Kisbér, the Somogysárd Castle in Somsych Castle, the Benczúr Castle in Szécsény, the old Podmaniczky Castle in Aszod, the Becsky Mansion in Komlódtótfalu, The Castle of Erdődy in Vépen, the Castle of Regécs in Mogyoróska, the Castle of Rákóczi in Szerencsen, the Town Walls in Sopron, the Castle of Várgestes, the Castle of Nógrád, the Castle of Kerekiben Fehérkő, the Castle of Kisvárdán and the Castle of Szarvaskő in Döbrönt. The resources needed to support the sites of the national castle programme and national castle programme are primarily provided by the operational programme for economic development innovation, known as GINOP. In view of the fact that from the sources of the 7th tourism priority of the programme, only monuments which form part of the National Property Act and which are of major national importance are listed in Annex II. The monuments set out in Annex II may be granted, and therefore, as a condition for EU support, it is necessary to amend the relevant legislative Annex by including the monuments that I first listed. [[19.40]] The main purpose of the bill is, therefore, Annex 2, Annex III. This appropriation is intended to cover the implementation of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). During the preparation of the amendment, a review was also carried out of national monuments and monuments of major importance for the national economy. These technical details of heritage protection are also included in the bill. The names of the buildings set out in the Annex have been changed, simplified and clarified. Ladies and gentlemen, For heritage conservation, tourism, local economic actors, the EU funds available for the 2014-2020 programming period are a huge opportunity for preserving, presenting and developing our high-value national monuments for tourism purposes. This amendment to the National Property Act may give rise to the possibility of using European funds which are decisively non-refundable for the development of the sites listed in those programmes. In my view, the bill goes beyond the daily political debates, and it is worth supporting all parties in order to protect the nation's cultural values. On this basis, I would ask the Honourable Parliament, in addition to considering what has been said, that T/10718. Please discuss and support bill No 1. Thank you for your attention. Mr President, thank you for your patience. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-24-188	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, There will be speeches by the lead speaker, the first of which will be the lead speaker of Fidesz. Congressman Gyula Vantara, please.
u2016-05-24-189	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The 2011 CXCVI on national assets. We have a bill on the amendment of the law before us. The proposal is short, but, as the State Secretary explained, it serves a more important purpose, since the government is committed to the protection of monuments, which is why it announced the national castle programme and the castle programme already mentioned. Within the framework of these two programmes, a number of old cultural and natural heritage sites will be renewed by 2020. Perhaps let me give you an example: after the Second World War, there were some 1500-2000 castles in Hungary, according to a survey carried out in the '60s, this could be estimated at 567. That cultural heritage, the cultural treasure that Mr. Secretary of State spoke about, ended almost permanently and irreparably. Within the framework of this programme, as mentioned above, the existing stock will be renewed by 2020. In addition, this programme and both programs are important because it will touch a part of the Hungarian monument stock, which has not existed in recent years as a comprehensive programme for the renewal of the functions of our time. The amendment to the bill is justified by the fact that the sites adopted by the government must be included in the annexes to the National Property Bill, as this is a specific condition due to the call of EU funds. In view of this, the current amendment corrects this and lists the national monuments that will hopefully benefit from the resources of the already mentioned GINOP. It is also important to note that at the same time a review of the collection of monuments and monuments that are considered national property has been carried out, so that the Annex has been corrected in this respect and is now a reflection of reality. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that the renewal of our national treasures is a matter with which all my fellow Members agree and will support this proposal. Thank you for your attention, thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-24-190	Thank you very much, Congressman. Now we hear the lead speaker of the MSZP faction. Attila Mesterházy, please.
u2016-05-24-191	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, as Mr Secretary of State said in his introduction, it is a programme that should not really be the subject of party political debates, because we are talking about preserving a national treasure that is in the interest of all of us, and indeed, if we can restore these castles and castles, then it can certainly be the pride of our nation. We therefore consider this legislative initiative to be important, and we consider it important that the government tries to finance this programme from European Union funds, from non-refundable European Union funds, because we also consider that there is a realistic possibility of this, so that we can certainly recover and restore these castles and castles from European Union funds, if we wish to use only Hungarian budgetary resources to do so. Therefore, we, for our part, consider the objective set by the government to be right and good, and indeed the government is carrying out a national preservation task. There may be one question that Mr. Secretary of State may be able to answer right away in his closet, of course from the opposition side, the question arises whether the government has no intention and, of course, it does not concern all the assets, but some assets may arise that, after a renovation, the government may want to privatise it or use it in private ownership after a major renovation. Mr Secretary, if you can give me guarantees, I know that the property law and much more regulates these issues, and even projects financed from European Union funds have a five-year deadline, but after five years there is still life, thanks to God. So in Hungarian, if the government could guarantee that these real estates or these castles or castles could not escape the national estate after the renovation, this would certainly be reassuring for us. Another question is that, of course, if we renovate these castles and castles, then it would be worth adding a program to this, which is about making use of them in the nobler sense of the word, i.e. in Hungarian: cultural aspects, on the basis of traditional considerations or, of course, on the basis of tourism considerations. So does the Ministry plan that, after the development of infrastructure - to be so simple and professional - will happen, then it will also be possible to make use of it for the pleasure of everyone, especially from cultural, touristic or educational points of view. So, overall, I would not want to drag this forward very long, because today has been a long day, and we have a number of draft laws on our agenda, and I can say from the MSZP faction, if this clarification or reply is made by the Secretary of State, then the MSZP fraction will support this legislative initiative of the government. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-05-24-192	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs, notary of the Parliament, is next. Here.
u2016-05-24-193	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, As I have already had the opportunity and opportunity to say at the five-party meeting, I will do it here in front of the House, that yes, the Jobbik faction will support this noble initiative, and we are sincerely pleased about this castle programme and its castle reconstruction programme. We ourselves had a similar initiative at the beginning of the previous term, unfortunately at that time this could not be heard by the government, but now the EU funds provide a framework for these to be implemented, so we welcome this in any case. [[19.50]] At the same time, I have to add, with a slightly bitter taste in the mouth, we very much hope that, in the case of investments in the European Union, overpriced prices will not appear during the previous programming cycle, i.e. as compared to the usual use for 2007-2013, since the renovation of these castles and castles is a sacred, noble matter which cannot be discredited by the fact that someone would like to profit from it in some way. And here, in the matter of privatisation, I must say one more half sentence. At the five-party meeting, it was also considered how these castles could be used. The Secretary of State has also said that it will be possible to administer assets. There's got to be some kind of recovery. I always look a little suspicious, and perhaps not by accident, at the government's manifestations of the need for a change of function in monuments due to economics and sustainability. It is the castle of Vajdahunyad that immediately arises within me, where the Museum of Agriculture avoids, and God knows what will be there. Some bad languages say it's a restaurant, others say it's Andy Vajna's new casino; I don't know, we'll see. It was a parentheses thought, but it's a bad example of which one might suspect with reason and right. Ceterum censeo, another thought that was also mentioned at the five-party meeting. In Annex 2 we're talking about, there's a II. Point 2 of the Annex to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, on the one hand, and on the other, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, and on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other I will take every opportunity, especially this year, in 2016, when we celebrate the 60th anniversary of the 1956 Revolution and War of Independence to say that the II. Point (d) of that point states which statues should be erected in Budapest in the V. district of Kossuth Lajos Square. According to point (dc), the flame of the Revolution is a monument. I would very kindly ask the handful of Members here to go out to Kossuth Square today, when they leave Parliament's building, and to check if they will find the statue that is supposed to be there under the law. Unfortunately, he's not there. Each day, when Members of Parliament pass this fact in silence, they are in fact violating the law or at least standing up for a violation of the law by their silence. For the 60-year anniversary, let's say, by October 23rd, the flame of the Revolution monument could return to Kossuth Square. There's plenty of room, and there's no reason to argue about it, and the image could fit right in. Overall, I would like to say once again that we are very happy to support this proposal. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-24-194	Thank you very much. Congressman István Ikotity, notary of the Parliament, lead speaker of the LMP. Here you go.
u2016-05-24-195	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The May Other views any proposal from the government that comes with serious suspicion and contains amendments to national wealth and cultural values. This is particularly true if these amendments are tabled in the form of individual representatives' motions, let us say if L. Simon László is doing so. Fortunately, this is not the case, we are discussing a government referral, which extends the list of monument-protected structures and structures that are national assets of national importance. If something is on this list, it cannot be alienated or burdened, but it can apply for the EU funding of HUF 55 billion in GINOP. Of course, we agree with this aim. Another question is how the LMP would imagine defining cultural goals. We believe that we should not only spend on the culture of elites, but also on access to the fundamental cultural values of millions of people and their participation in cultural value creation. Today, we are not spending billions on this, but, for example, on the national castle programme and the national castle programme that is also affected by the proposal. There are quite amazing disproportions regarding the financing and investments of cultural life, here we are thinking of the reconstruction of the Buda Castle, the City Park or the waste of the Hungarian Academy of Arts, which is used as a small ball. We spend hundreds of billions of forints on window culture, while it is no longer important to improve the role of culture in strengthening social cohesion or its role in sustainability. You can and should do castle programs and castle programs, but strengthening everyone's culture should not be neglected. Returning to the proposal before us, we fully support the renewal and sustainable exploitation of our built heritage. Unfortunately, we are behind in terms of continuous renovation, maintenance and proper use. We support the extension of the list because the extended list gives greater protection to individual monuments. At the same time, we consider it important that after the renovation, recovery takes place in such a way that it fits properly into the local economy, not just as it is reserved for public money. LMP considers it useful not only to have a museum everywhere, but also to have tourist accommodation or other economic activities. It is also important that the function to be developed be accessible to all, not only luxury castles that can be visited by a few people. For example, the castle of Várgestes could be restored to the tourist accommodation. Of course, this would also require the expansion of the 17 billion-dollar domestic funds in the field of operation. This can be done with the removal and reduction of hundreds of billion-dollar castles and the City Park museum district. There's money for culture, that's what we see, but it's just being misdistributed. Hundreds of billions are being spent on luxury investments that are important to the narrowest layer, while millions of people are spending barely anything to turn into culture. It's a huge imbalance. The window is shiny and shiny, but inside the window there are great shortcomings. This disproportion will be reduced by considering opening up to a wide audience, embedding in the local economy and sustainability aspects of the castle and castle programme. Possibly Other Politics would consider these to be particularly important, and we particularly recommend these aspects to the government. We hope that as much of these will be achieved and that the proposal will be supported. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-05-24-196	Thank you very much. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There's no independent congressman in the room. Congresswoman Anita Heringes, MSZP asked for a two-minute speech. Here.
u2016-05-24-197	Thank you very much. I just want to confirm what my fellow Member Attila Mesterházy said. Of course, Hungary's wealth is also like the wealth of a family, it must be protected, feared, and, when necessary, built and protected. For it is part of our history, which must not be forgotten, because if we leave our history, leave these castles, castles and let them be destroyed, then the future generation will have nothing to learn, see, and have nothing to grow from. But just because we have some fear, too, because unfortunately we have seen a lot on the part of the government over the past few years, we will also present an amendment proposal in which we will try to make the safeguards that make disposal impossible even stronger. We expect the government to do the same, but if it does not, support our amendment so that not only five years after the renovations from European Union funds can be made available to make the sale impossible, but also several years to make sure that it does not happen to renovate with EU money and then increase a private asset. We don't want to see this. I think that future generations deserve to remain state property, and future generations deserve to see these castles and castles in centuries' time. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-24-198	Thank you very much. As a speaker asking for a normal word, it is up to Congressman Sebestyén, Jobbik. [[20.00]]
u2016-05-24-199	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I was happy to see the bill, especially because the two places in Komárom-Esztergom county mentioned in Mr. Secretary of State's expozee, with which the list, the small mansion and the castle of Várgestes, were added. I'm glad to hear that. On the other hand, I have a question about the table, and I have a question about the changes in it. It is also mentioned in the explanatory memorandum that it contains other changes. What is the reason for this? I would specifically ask for a change from the point of view of my city, Tata, the castle in Tata. The current table states that Tata, Heroes' Square 7-8-9/A, Esterházy Castle and its outbuildings, park. And in the table in the amendment, the only thing left is that it is an Esterházy castle ensemble. Is this going to mean any change from a practical point of view, or is this just a stylistic repair or some conceptual repair? That's my question. If it has other significance than stylistic repair or conceptual clarification, what is the significance of this, and why did the table have to be changed about the Tata Castle? Thank you very much. [[Lajos Kepli applauds.]]
u2016-05-24-200	Thank you. Congressman Vantara, Fidesz!
u2016-05-24-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to give Mrs Loránt Hegedűs and Member Ikotity brief information on the exploitation of renovated castles. The government launched the artwork programme for the preservation and presentation of the Hungarian cultural heritage, which was launched by 1484/2015. It is governed by a government decision. According to the Decision, cultural goods held in public collections which form part of national property must be made available to visitors. So a form of exploitation, I think, can be experienced. The Decision also sets out the preparation of measures and timetables for presenting and extending them in line with the national castle programme. It is also one, namely 1977/2015. a government decision provided for recovery programmes concerning the projects of the castle and castle programme to present the accommodations in the surroundings of the monument. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] With regard to prices: she is a specialist and knows that the costs of renovations, especially for the renovation of castles, are difficult to anticipate at design level. I'm not talking about the pricing method you're talking about. I'm talking about normal. So I'm talking about new monument appearances after plaster, conditions under plaster. One of the most difficult programs is to estimate their cost in the context of a renovation programme. Thank you for your attention. [[Dr. András Aradski applauds.]]
u2016-05-24-202	Ladies and gentlemen, Welcome back. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see a candidate. So I will ask the rapporteur, Secretary of State, János Fónagy, if he wishes to comment.
u2016-05-24-203	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-05-24-204	It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-05-24-205	Ladies and gentlemen, In advance, allow me to thank all the factions for their support. Allow me to answer the questions that have been raised as clearly as possible. The first is the post-renewal status, partly from the point of view of how we use it. It is clear that, in addition to the nature of these national assets, the heritage of national cultural and built culture, national and local objectives should be pursued primarily, the economic results of which are also enjoyed by the locals in such a way that they do not, at the same time, damage to their national assets or national heritage. Therefore, and I say this first of all to my fellow Member Mesterházy, I would like to draw attention here to the fact that, in addition to the preservation of national heritage, some of the buildings owned by the state and municipal authorities are still managed by local governments, for example, the Szerencs Castle or Sárospatak, which serves touristic purposes in addition to the preservation of national heritage, which is also operated by the local government. But to answer in particular, this has been raised by several of my fellow Members, partly by the five-year moratorium on the use of EU funds and EU funds. But oddly enough, on the previous agenda, here, within the walls of the House, let me repeat that the protection of these renovated and listed properties is guaranteed by this fundamental law, the National Property Act, when you say that the 6th century is a national property law. According to paragraph 4 of Section 2, the national assets listed in Annex 2, i.e. which are of particular importance for the national economy listed herein, are, by virtue of the power of the law, partly subject to a disposal and debit ban, cannot be provided as collateral, and no shared property shall be created. So these properties enjoy the protection not only of five years, but also of a two-thirds fundamental law. Accordingly, it is only possible to amend a two-thirds law to take any kind of action, burden or sale. By the way, there is no intention, but you asked the warranty elements, Congressman. Obviously, and in my previous sentence, I also wanted to respond to the need to find the most appropriate forms of exploitation together, in addition to the maintenance after restoration and the enforcement of regional or local economic interests. We need to find it together, because the historical function of these buildings, its historical traditions, and sometimes even its graceful aspects are an obstacle, and now allow me to put it simply, any philanthropic use. At the same time, it should be used within the scope of the options. I would say to my colleague Ikotity that this agenda is not suitable for discussing the existence, usefulness or flaws of elite culture. However, on the basis of your comment, I would also like to ask you to allow me to react that I do not think so, and I am sure that you do not think that, for example, the renewal of the Liszt Academy or the ongoing renovation of the Kunsthalle could result in an overgrowth of an elite culture that society does not want. These are our common national objectives, which I believe we all need and can support. The clarifications: Mr Cutsman, there was no intention, to say the least, of mutilation or omission. There were places where the location numbers, when they were originally included, were complexes of buildings, and it turned out that they belonged to them because of land formations made in recent decades, for example, other landmarks. For example, the Esterházy castle ensemble. This is easier because, at the parks, this was also said on the five-party side, and I asked directly there, he was cut up by roads, which were given a separate location number. And now, obviously, it's easier to manage the whole thing in a uniform way by cutting it from wall to wall, no matter how many it takes to get there. To my fellow Member, Mr Hering, I think I have replied that we welcome all improvements, but I repeat, in addition to the five-year moratorium, there is currently a fundamental law protecting the retention of these state, more precisely, national wealth. Thank you once again for your support, and I would ask for this to be reflected in the vote. Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience. [[20.10]] The national assets listed in Annex 2, i.e. which are of particular importance for the national economy listed herein, are, by virtue of the law, partly subject to a prohibition on disposal and debiting, not to be secured, and cannot be created. So these properties enjoy the protection not only of five years, but also of a two-thirds fundamental law. Accordingly, it is only possible to amend a two-thirds law to take any kind of action, burden or sale. By the way, there is no intention, but you asked the warranty elements, Congressman. Obviously, and in my previous sentence, I also wanted to respond to the need to find the most appropriate forms of exploitation together, in addition to the maintenance after restoration and the enforcement of regional or local economic interests. We need to find it together, because the historical function of these buildings, its historical traditions, and sometimes even its graceful aspects are an obstacle, and now allow me to put it simply, any philanthropic use. At the same time, it should be used within the scope of the options. I would say to my colleague Ikotity that this agenda is not suitable for discussing the existence, usefulness or flaws of elite culture. However, on the basis of your comment, I would also like to ask you to allow me to react that I do not think so, and I am sure that you do not think that, for example, the renewal of the Liszt Academy or the ongoing renovation of the Kunsthalle could result in an overgrowth of an elite culture that society does not want. These are our common national objectives, which I believe we all need and can support. The clarifications: Mr Cutsman, there was no intention, to say the least, of mutilation or omission. There were places where the location numbers, when they were originally included, were complexes of buildings, and it turned out that they belonged to them because of land formations made in recent decades, for example, other landmarks. For example, the Esterházy castle ensemble. This is easier because, at the parks, this was also said on the five-party side, and I asked directly there, he was cut up by roads, which were given a separate location number. And now, obviously, it's easier to manage the whole thing in a uniform way by cutting it from wall to wall, no matter how many it takes to get there. To my fellow Member, Mr Hering, I think I have replied that we welcome all improvements, but I repeat, in addition to the five-year moratorium, there is currently a fundamental law protecting the retention of these state, more precisely, national wealth. Thank you once again for your support, and I would ask for this to be reflected in the vote. Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience.(20.10)
u2016-05-24-206	The general debate is hereby closed. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Coming up next is the International Rail Transport Agreement. and the general debate on the draft law on the publication of its annexes in a uniform structure with amendments in 2015 and 2016 until closure. Government referral T/10717. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. You have the floor.
u2016-05-24-207	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill provides for the publication of amendments to the Agreement on International Carriage of Goods by Rail and its Annexes for 2015 and 2016. The agreement was concluded by the socialist countries of Eastern Europe in 1951 to regulate rail traffic between them. Both the founding members and Hungary resigned from this agreement in 1991, and in 2001 Hungary joined the SZMGSZ again. The annual amendments to the Agreement and its Annexes shall be published in law on the basis of the Act on Procedures for International Contracts. The changes in 2015 affected the content of the SZMGSZ and its annexes in a meaningful way, so that the publication in the single structure, which also includes the amendments for 2016, was again necessary. The amendments for 2015 concern definitions, the inclusion of new concepts, the scope of the Agreement, the SZMGSZ may also apply to direct international rail ferries, the obligation to transport by rail to remove the coercion of transport, compulsory rail transport on the basis of plans, the long shadow of old crimes, the content of the bill of carriage, the time limits for carriage, the payment of transport costs and fines, the possible cases of modification of the transport contract, the issue of liability, the cases of liability of the consignor, the carrier or the recipient, the extent of compensation, the closing provisions, the additions or amendments, such as the official languages of the SZMGSZ, and the SZMGSZ are added in more detail to the mode of transport, the list of technical possibilities to be used in circulation between different track distances, and the obligation to control goods. The amendments for 2016 aim at formal clarifications and minor changes in content in the Annex. The publication of the amended Agreement and its Annex is necessary in order to enable railway undertakings operating in Hungary engaged in international transport to apply the provisions of the Agreement clearly and effectively in the direct international traffic of goods on the railway lines of the Member States. I ask the Honourable Parliament that the T/10717. To discuss, accept and support the publication of the agreement and its annexes. Thank you for your attention, thank you for your time, Mr President.
u2016-05-24-208	Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Jenő Manninger, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-05-24-209	Mr President, Dear House, The annual amendment to the Annex to the Agreement on International Carriage of Rail, which we call SZMGSZ, should be published in law under the Act on Procedures for International Contracts. The changes in 2015 affected the content of the SZMGSZ and its annexes in a meaningful way, so that the publication in the single structure became necessary again, which also includes the amendments for 2016. Mr Secretary of State has already mentioned in his exposé which areas of the agreement are covered by the amendments for 2015. By publishing the amendments, the international transport railway undertakings operating in Hungary will be able to apply the terms of the agreement in a simpler manner in the immediate international traffic of goods, in the case of transport on the railway lines of the Member States. It is absolutely necessary and essential that Hungary be party to the Eastern rail freight transport in SZMGSZ, as it contains detailed rules and regulations for the carriage of goods in the eastern direction. The agreement and the publication of the annexes are necessary for railway undertakings operating in Hungary and participating in international transport to carry out their activities in a successful and undisturbed manner. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-05-24-210	I give the floor to Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP group.
u2016-05-24-211	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, This bill is of course supported by the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party, since, as my fellow Member Manninger said, it is in Hungary's primary economic interest to be able to participate in such a regulatory system in Hungary in the most appropriate and efficient way, since this SZMGSZ also lays down the rules for the take-over, transport and delivery of goods in connection with the carriage of goods by rail, the requirements for the conclusion of a transport contract, the content of the railway bill, the rules for the time limits and cost-bearing of freight, the rules for the carriage of goods subject to special conditions, as well as the questions of liability and compensation for rail freight. Therefore, very important and fundamental issues are regulated in this Convention. The rest of my speech was read literally by the Secretary of State, so I would spare my fellow Members, so I would just like to say that the group of the MSZP will support this law and its publication. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-05-24-212	I give the floor to Ander Balázs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-05-24-213	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Such a bill, such as an agreement on international rail freight, could also hold, let us say, surprises, or rather interesting things to highlight in such a debate. Just because we look at the volume of goods moving within the country over a year, we find that this is about 50 billion tonnes of goods that we are talking about, the railway is responsible for 20 percent of this. So we are talking about a very important and complex system. That is why we also say on the part of the Jobbik faction that, naturally, this agreement, which does not otherwise increase Hungary's dependence on other states and does not contain any discrimination on us, will be supported. However, we have to say a few things here, too, in relation to rail transport, too, because according to the latest press reports, the railways are moving, the trade unions have actually given an ultimatum to the leadership of the MÁV and the government that if they do not take seriously the complaints that they have been trying to convey to you for a very long, very long time and very strongly, then there will be trouble, they may also go on strike, and they can express in a stronger way what they want, what improvements they want to achieve in this sector. This area is also important because EU regulations are also leading us to take rail freight more seriously, although we bettermen, of course, in many cases, have chills about Brussels ideas, but what concerns increasing the share of rail freight, we can only agree with such Brussels ideas, because this is very important from an environmental point of view, so it is in the interests of the country and the interests of the nation. What does Brussels say? Road freight, freight transport should be directed towards water and rail solutions, with the greatest possible share of these modes of transport. Even because road freight transport is producing a number of apparently unintended but negative externalities that are very, very, very stressful to the population, they can also cause enormous damage to the national economy, as appropriate. [[20.20]] If we want to meet these European needs, which are 100% compatible with Hungarian needs in this way, then we also need a serious shift in the field of railway. The domestic features would otherwise be particularly good for these, as our country lies in the node of pan-European transport corridors. Therefore, we could be the logistics centre of the Central-Eastern European region, if this area were to receive more attention, a better grasp of the otherwise scarce resources that come into this area, even though we are constantly hearing at propaganda level that in this EU development funding cycle, i.e. from 14 to 20, about a thousand billion forints will arrive in the railway area, which we can only support. On the other hand, we always add that these funds should be spent with much more care and care, and let's say that the pocket of Lőrinc Mészáros, the national gas mechanic, should not be filled with these orders as much as they do. It is unfathomable that, while in the socialist period of the previous era, in connection with motorway constructions, we were able to boast the dubious glory that the most expensive motorways in the world are being built here, we can now say the same in relation to railway construction, that this is where almost the most expensive railway lines in the world are built. I would like to emphasise these resources once again, which is why, because they are not infinite, they should be used better. It would be very good if Viktor Orbán would allow me, Mr Secretary of State, to have him with such a symbolic hammer beside the box of resources, and when they want to get involved in this so badly or to an unjustified extent, let us say that a good one can also be hit by the Secretary of State. Now, why should we pay more attention to this area? It is simply because a series of studies and a lot of them prove that the negative externalities that I have just mentioned are much smaller in terms of rail freight transport than, say, in the case of road freight transport. OECD studies, studies by the European Commission, studies by the KT, the Institute of Transport Sciences or even the Air Task Force support all of this independently. It's enough to mention some data here. The toxic carcinogens that get into the air are 50 percent because of transport. Therefore, it does not matter which mode the Hungarian State prefers more in transport, which it pays more attention to. We say that this should be the railway, the rail road transport, because this can reduce the emissions of pollutants, so that Hungarians can be better protected. It doesn't matter, either, that heavy goods vehicles are the biggest cause of transportation, let's just say damage, and here's another interesting figure, which represents a 40% share of domestic traffic in foreign heavy goods vehicles. So if we add to this line of thought that we should shift this freight traffic to rail, we will already get the result that we can save enormously, because the studies mentioned above say that in a year within the European Union, about EUR 143 billion is the negative externality generated by heavy duty vehicles. It's a terrible, huge, almost incomprehensible amount of money. Hungary has almost EUR 3 billion of this money, we can talk about HUF 870 billion, and if we break it down, we find that some HUF 350 billion can be observed in the maintenance and reconstruction of this infrastructure, so let's say that damage is obviously not intended, and I can only underline it again, but HUF 350 billion must be allocated or spent for such purposes. And then we didn't talk about air pollution, which can be shown to cause more than HUF 90 billion damage to our country, or accidents, which also amount to more than HUF 80 billion, and this is caused only by heavy vehicles. So if we could get their traffic onto the railroad, we could all save it. Unfortunately, however, what we have to see is that the government's chapters on transport policy have no emphasis on environmental protection at all. What do I mean by that? In their first independent fiscal year in 2011, RoLa's support had already been abolished. Okay, we know it's a complicated story, but we were talking about loading trucks on railway cars and driving them across the country. Since this support was not received after that from RoLa Kiskundorozsma to the Austrian target, it could not benefit from this support, it ceased operating at the end of 2012, and unfortunately the government has not been able to find a way to replace it, how it could support it, even though every study is about a single forint spent on this, let's say four times the profit return we can catch or catch in reducing negative externalities. So I would also like to ask Mr Secretary of State, if there is one way, to act more effectively in this matter, and to force it to do so. In order for the country's economy to function effectively, a very well-functioning transport system is also obviously necessary, one of the major elements of which is the rail system, which has been mentioned or constantly mentioned, which really needs three things, on the one hand, such legislation as this, which the Jobbik fraction, I repeat, can support. Secondly, along with the infrastructure and infrastructure asset pool, which has also been mentioned many times before, that it is in a state of low criticism. There are naturally improvements, there are welcome examples, but overall we can say that the situation is very bad in this regard as well. And there is the human factor, which is often forgotten, because the railway system is operated by the amount of human resources, to put it in such a nasty way, which works there, and starting as a railway expert, through the traffic controller, where appropriate, to the top managers, they are there and running this system. And those at the bottom of this system feel that they do not get the attention and respect they deserve. What's this about, anyway? It was from railway in Hungary in the early 1960s or 170,000 people. This fell to 130,000 by 1980, and now we see that there are 37 thousand, and this 37 thousand will not get what is rightfully due to them. What are they complaining about? They miss the career, Mr. Secretary, they complain about wages, which are ridiculously low, and what's annoying about the railroad, is that the scissors are huge between the top drivers and the simple railroadmen, the railroads that actually operate the system. You can almost say that these wage differences are Latino, but it's just one thing. There are also working conditions, which are also complained about. For example, the system of work schedules that are now completely chaotic and, in many cases, opaque. I, too, receive complaints from rail passengers in which they have the right to criticise this system. By the way, its roots go back to the fact that the MÁV tried very badly to steal their money, the billions of forints that would have been due to this 10,000 people working in such a job. Then a final court ruling said it had to be paid, but it's a trick. And the very ugly and certainly outrageous machine has begun in this area as well. The third such thing, which is usually complained about, is the examination system, the often counterproductive examination system, which really makes the railwaymen stand up on their backs, they are terrified of it, and it almost deters the otherwise beautiful profession, the railwaymen. [[20.30]] With regard to the need for reconstruction resources here - I may still have a minute or two - it has to be said that this demand for funds would be huge, we are talking about some HUF 3 thousand billion, and wonderful operational programmes here or there, they are overbooked several times, as we can talk about a thousand billion forints, which will reach the railway area. You can see that money is not enough, and that's why you need to take these money much better. While, let's say, during my grandfather's time, the milking cow was called Riska, under the Socialist regime, the name of the milking cow was the name of the railway projects, the name of the railway reconstructions, which my fellow Member Lajos Kepli also held a press conference on PPPs, the shameful, shameful and inexplicable things on the M6 motorway, and, at the time of the Fidesz administration, we raised our voice in addition to stopping greedy little balls that want to entrap them - I once again underline: - we seem to be talking about a lot, and we are talking about billions, but, as far as the task is concerned, scarce resources, which would certainly be needed elsewhere. That is what I wanted to say now, and I urge the Secretary of State here, also from this place, to listen to the words of the railwaymen, because we can make such laws, we can sign these agreements, but this system is operated by these little railwaymen who would give their hearts, their souls for the Hungarian Railways, and yet they feel that their work is not properly appreciated. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-24-214	I now give the floor to Congressman Jenő Manninger in a two-minute time frame.
u2016-05-24-215	Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say this briefly, because my colleague before me was not talking about the item on the agenda. [[Ander Balázs: Yes, you can.]] If there were a rule to discuss a narrower interpretation of the item on the agenda, then... [[Ander Balázs intervenes.]] I do not wish to participate in this, but I would also like to note that you should monitor the situation of the Hungarian railways more closely, and then you can see that, although there are a lot of problems, of course wages are never enough, the improvements can only be made stepwise, it is true that it costs a lot of money to renovate a railway track, although it would be worth comparing this on an international scale, but I am also saying that, obviously, thanks to EU funds and restructuring, the Hungarian railway has produced a number of excellent results in the last year and will continue in the coming years. So I wish that you could enjoy this, although it is not yet happening in all areas of the country, only in certain areas, on some refurbished lines, where new trains are running, but this gradually extends to the whole country, and we will observe in several places that rail passenger transport is actually going to be competitive, and freight transport is, hopefully, also. My fellow Members, I would like to say one more thing: RoLa transport was only viable when trucks had to ask for a special licence, they had a separate quota, so this is a completely different period. At the same time, we agree, and I believe that the introduction of electronic tolls and a number of other measures do take account of the environmental aspects of transport policy and favour freight transport in the rail area, obviously with a lot to do in the field of transport policy. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-05-24-216	I now give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli in two minutes.
u2016-05-24-217	Thank you very much. I would also like to contribute to this debate on rail development with a two-minute speech, since my fellow Member, Mr Ander, mentioned that indeed, with the development of the railway, it is, as with everything else in this country, that the entrepreneurs close to the government, the people in the vicinity of Viktor Orbán, Lőrinc Mészáros, are doing well. After all, as you said, my fellow Member, the construction of the South Balaton railway for HUF 70 billion instead of 50 billion or even the renewal of the Fonyód-Kaposvár line is related to his name, which has already taken 100 billion for the development of Lake Balaton from the EU's 300 billion source, and now comes the twist: it has already been said at the Balaton Development Council that the two should be managed together with the development of the North Coast railway. So it seems that the little ball is hungry again, as there are 200 billion more free-to-use resources out of the 300 billion, and it seems that another ten billion will go to the northern coastal railway development, which is very necessary, as electrification has long been waiting for itself on the northern shore of Lake Balaton, so that we can get from Budapest to Tapolca faster. This does not mean, however, that everything should always be put into the hands of an entrepreneur, that all the resources should be allocated to one and the same company and interests, because there are quite a few entrepreneurs in Hungary who could do this and would be happy to do it. Let us not use rail development, rail for what all other public procurement, all other EU development resources are used to reward people in the government's environment with tenders, public procurement resources and serious billions! It is almost not worth standing up here in Parliament, as it is said every day where billions have been stolen through public procurement sources. The railway should develop, Hungary should develop, but do not develop in such a way that every one and a half times double price is implemented, because the rate of corruption is included. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-24-218	I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see a candidate. Thus, the general debate is closed and I give the floor to Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary.
u2016-05-24-219	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me first of all to thank all the factions for their support for our bill to publish in a uniform structure the amendments to the Agreement on International Carriage of Goods by Rail and its Annexes in 2015 and 2016. Indeed, this bill will help the Hungarian railway to become an active player in the East-West freight traffic. As far as other comments on the railway are concerned, the Hungarian Railways are now united again, so they are practically three large organisations, the largest state company with nearly 37 thousand employees, and they have the support of both the government and the Hungarian society, since both the government and society are aware of the professionalism, service and sacrifice of the railwaymen. In part, the development of the sector - this has also been said by the speakers - in this EU cycle, a thousand billion out of the 1500 billion available for infrastructure development will be awarded to the tied track, so the railway is now and will continue to be subject to significant improvements. What shows the attention and appreciation of the government is one fact: in the wage development negotiations in 2016, the MÁV was the first to agree with the railway trade unions, and this agreement also served as a basis for other public corporate wage agreements. The government considers both the railway and the railway passengers to be important elements of Hungarian society and the Hungarian economy, important participants in the future, and considers them accordingly. Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience.
u2016-05-24-220	Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Next up is the 2008 XL on gas supply. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission submitted by Congressman Jenő Manninger T/10735. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Congressman Jenő Manninger, the author.
u2016-05-24-221	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 312/2014 establishing a network code for system balancing between natural gas transmission system operators, Member States should establish a trading platform or platforms to promote a short-term wholesale gas market. On the one hand, FGSZ Natural Gas Supplier Zrt. is involved in such activities in Hungary. on the basis of its so-called balancing platform, on the other hand, on the organised market, i.e. on the gas exchange. [[20.40]] In view of the fact that the size of the domestic gas market does not justify the operation of two separate trading platforms, the operators concerned shall consult on the joint operation of the trading platform with the start of the operation on 1 October 2016 at the base of the organised natural gas market holder. At present, the Gas Supply Act provides only the electricity system manager with the opportunity to acquire a stake in the company operating the organised gas market. The Gas Supply Act is necessary to ensure that the natural gas system manager is subject to the same rules as the electricity transmission system manager in respect of the exemption from the ownership limit in the public limited liability company operating the natural gas market. This is included in the proposal that I ask you to support. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-05-24-222	I will ask the Secretary of State, Mr András Aradszki, if you would like to comment. [[Dr. András Aradski: Yes.]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-05-24-223	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The 2008 XL on gas supply. There is an amendment to the law before us, which means an amendment to a single provision. With regard to gas exchange operators or operators, the bill seeks to eliminate a discrimination that has so far been in the system and has so far provided only the electricity system manager with the opportunity to acquire a stake in this gas exchange or in the company that operates it. I believe that this opportunity should also be given to the natural gas system manager to create a strengthened gas exchange in Hungary, which will ensure that the market functions more fully and thus ensure that gas prices are monitored and more market-oriented in the gas trading sector. Therefore, I also consider the proposal tabled by the Member to be a forward-looking proposal to be supported, and I would also like to thank the honourable Parliament for that, and I would ask that the proposal submitted be supported.
u2016-05-24-224	Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I'll see if anyone on Fidesz wants to comment. [[No signal.]] I don't see a candidate. Then I give the floor to Mr Bertalan Tóth, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2016-05-24-225	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would have preferred that an individual motion to reduce the price of natural gas had been made, but that is not what this bill is about. According to the law on the supply of natural gas currently in force, the number of ownership shares or votes of any shareholder in the company operating the so-called "organised natural gas market' cannot exceed 10% of the company's capital or the eligible votes, and this ratio is Get. the holder of the authorisation referred to in paragraph 1 shall not exceed 50 per cent in conjunction with the subsidiaries. The only exception so far is Mavir Zrt. I was. According to the bill, FGSZ is a natural gas trader. is also granted immunity from ownership limits, as is the case with Mavir Zrt. The aim of the bill is acceptable and eligible from a professional point of view. There is only one incomprehensible moment in the bill as to why it came here as a motion for individual representatives, and why it was not proposed by the government. These lobbying proposals are not fortunate, however - as I have said - we support their proposal professionally and with our vote in favour. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-24-226	I now give the floor to Lajos Kepli, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-05-24-227	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I can only repeat the solos before me, the fact that the natural gas supplier is Zrt. the acquisition limit will be lifted, it must be supported and welcomed, as it eliminates a discrimination in the law, and therefore Jobbik Hungary's Movement supports the bill. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-24-228	I do not see any further comments, so I will ask the Secretary of State of Aradski if he wishes to comment. [[Dr. András Aradski: No.]] He doesn't want to comment. So we managed to negotiate this law in about six minutes. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. The next step is the XXVI of 2006 on gas security stockpiling. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Government referral T/10724. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I will also give the floor to Mr András Aradszki, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Development.
u2016-05-24-229	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill is the XXVI of 2006 on the security stockpiling of natural gas. It seeks to amend a single provision of the Law. Security of supply in Hungary is guaranteed by the institution of security of supply in relation to both petroleum and petroleum products and natural gas. This task is carried out by the Hungarian Coal Hydrogen Stocking Association, MSZKSZ. As a general rule, under the relevant legislation, the MSZKO becomes a member of any trader selling to the final consumer or a self-sufficient consumer. Members shall pay a member's contribution to the MSZKSZ in proportion to the quantity sold by them, which shall be passed on to their customers in the stocking fee. There's a difference between the two sectors. As long as the 2013 XXIII on security stocks of imported petroleum and petroleum products By law, no member contribution shall be paid or the paid member contribution may be claimed back for the quantity of specified petroleum products that the Member has demonstrated to be imported or sold directly to the final consumer for chemical and non-energy purposes, whereas the Gas Security Stockpiling Act does not at present distinguish between energy and chemical use. In Hungary, the total amount of natural gas used for industrial purposes in 2015 was 5,46 million cubic metres, of which 0,76 million cubic metres were used directly as chemical inputs and for non-energy purposes. For companies using natural gas for chemical purposes, participation in the stockpiling and the obligation to pay for the stockpiling result in significant costs, which these undertakings are obliged to pass on to their customers at the price of the chemical products they produce. This leads to a reduction in the competitiveness of chemical companies, and the amendment therefore creates the possibility for chemical companies using natural gas as a raw material to recover up to 80% of the member's contribution to MSZCSZ. Thus, as in the previous bill, a discriminatory regulation would be abolished. Dear Parliament, Once again, this will create a legal environment for chemical companies using natural gas as a raw material, which will enable them to reduce their costs and thus increase their competitiveness. I would ask the Honourable Parliament that the 2006 XXVI on the security stockpiling of natural gas T/10724. Please support bill number 1. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-05-24-230	Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. In this context, I will also give the floor to Jenő Manninger, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-05-24-231	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As the Secretary of State pointed out, the amendment provides the opportunity for the chemical industry using natural gas as a raw material to recover the paid security stocking member fee. In Hungary, about 14 percent of the natural gas used for industrial purposes is used as a chemical raw material and not for energy purposes, so we see that it is a small percentage of the whole. However, this is very important for the chemical industry. The payment of the stock-holding fee leads to a reduction in the competitiveness of chemical companies, and the aim of this proposal is to create a legal environment by amending the law, like the regulation of the security stocking of oil, which will enable these chemical companies to reduce their costs and thus increase their competitiveness. That is why I am asking for the support of the proposal. Thank you.
u2016-05-24-232	I now give the floor to Bertalan Tóth, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. [[20.50]]
u2016-05-24-233	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the bill can be supported, given that it can help boost the competitiveness of domestic chemical companies. At the same time, in order to achieve the objective of the bill, it is essential that natural gas dealers supplying domestic chemical companies do not charge them or pass on to these companies the stock-holding fee they can recover, which amounts to several hundred million forints. That's something you have to pay attention to. As I said, the MSZP agrees with the aim of the bill, i.e. increasing the competitiveness of domestic chemical companies, and therefore supports it. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-24-234	I now give the floor to Mr Lajos Kepli, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-05-24-235	Thank you very much. There is nothing further from the Jobbik Hungary Movement faction than to prevent Hungarian chemical companies from improving their competitiveness. That is why we are surprisingly in favour of the bill, and we very much hope that the surplus profit thus left will also be used by these businesses to invest in job creation, and then everyone will benefit. Thank you very much. [[Dr. László György Lukács applauds.]]
u2016-05-24-236	Thank you. I will ask the Secretary of State of Aradski if he wishes to reply, since there is no other candidate. [[Dr. András Aradski's signal:]] You have the floor.
u2016-05-24-237	Thank you very much for your support. Indeed, such concerns could be raised if regulation were not correct in this respect. The acquisition of natural gas from the association will be reclaimed after use. Therefore, that kind of anti-price mechanism simply cannot operate in this system, because, following chemical use, it is a reduction in the MSZKZKZ fee, and the revenue from the recovery of the MSZKZKZ fee results in the competitiveness of chemical companies increasing, strengthening and the traders getting their own money. Thank you very much. That's all I wanted to say.
u2016-05-24-238	The general debate - or rather general agreement - is closed. The amendment proposals can be submitted on Thursday at 4 p.m. We are now at the end of the discussion of our agendas, and there are speeches after the agenda. In the framework of this, I give the floor to Mr István Ikotity, first of all, with a title on the transformation of vocational secondary school education. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-05-24-239	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, In recent years, not only the weakening of vocational education and training, but also the elimination of the education of public knowledge have ruffled the moods of vocational training. Even if it does not affect such broad layers, it would be a serious step backwards in its kind to make foundational vocational training institutions impossible. The LMP has already expressed its views on both planned measures. We strongly protest against the elimination of the public knowledge of vocational secondary schools and strongly oppose the planned nationalisation of non-state institutions. Both measures take something from the existing ones, narrow down the possibilities, withdraw from existing multi-coloredness. It decomposes, simplifies, and limits. The Association of Foundation and Private Schools has sent the following letter to all Members, which summarises the situation with the nationalisation of foundational vocational schools. We would like this letter to be made here in Parliament. I will read this letter in the rest of my speech. The nationalization of foundational trainers. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: At the beginning of the school year, there was a situation in which private trainers did not have publicly funded framework numbers for students who had already applied to these schools in the admission process. This is the situation created by the portfolio that the NGM used to directly contact private operators in vocational training centres and the State Secretariat with their offer. Any transfer of framework numbers necessary for the start of the academic year was made to the foundations within three days - three days! - make a declaration of their own request for the transfer of the schools they maintain to a vocational training centre from the following academic year. It's quite shocking! This statement had to be sent to the then Secretary of State Sándor Czomba by noon on Thursday 27 August. The declarations sent were not clear enough by the Secretary of State, so he instructed the maintenance staff by telephone to supplement their declaration by at the same time giving up the application for the framework numbers for the 2016/2017 academic year. Nothing happened for months after the declarations were collected by the wallet. The Association of Foundation and Private Schools approached NGM several times in spring 2016 due to the inability to launch the 2016/2017 academic year, with an alternative solution to the organisation of foundation schools in vocational training centres as well as a negotiation initiative. To date, no response has been received to these requests. A draft agreement on integration has recently become public. The draft agreement clearly shows the attitude of the state institution-keeping to education. Public education institutions are not a learning space conducive to student development, not a field of pedagogical-professional work, but a movable one. And he sees it as real estate. Although the title of the document is a draft agreement, the draft does not guarantee the provisions of the Civil Code relating to contracts. The obligation is one-sided and the parties have not developed the text of the contract with their common will. Although it does not confiscate the property, it takes it into permanent free use. The first information on pupils in Annex 21 is requested in Annex 18. The text of the agreement does not even refer to the smooth, unchanged continuation of training for pupils. The document does not provide any guarantees for the implementation of the school's pedagogical programme. The draft agreement shows the attitude of the receiving party to vocational training and public education. As they think about schools as a single institution of rooms, tools, workers, and students, they have no idea why public schools are so often a failure and why tens of thousands of students and parents choose foundation and private schools. So far, the quote. We would also like to draw attention to the impossibility of non-state institutions and the disruption of vocational training, which is taking place in Hungary today. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-05-24-240	Speaking after the next agenda, Congresswoman Márta Demeter came forward It's called the Day of Defence Day. You have the floor.
u2016-05-24-241	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, On May 21, we celebrated the day of Hungarian defence, the anniversary of the return of the Buda Castle in 1849. It was one of the most uplifting moments of Hungarian military history when the struggle for freedom for Hungarian freedom and for the protection of the achievements of the 1848 Revolution came to its climax. Although the war of freedom failed despite all the success of the glorious Spring March of 1849, the struggle was not in vain. The revolution of 1848 laid the foundations of modern Hungary, and the war of freedom ensured that these foundations could never be destroyed again.In 1848-49, an entire nation fought for freedom, equality and brotherhood. During this noble struggle, the Hungarian Defence Forces, the armed force that the whole nation can be proud of today, as in 1849. Today it is the 21st. Fortunately, there is no need in Hungary to fight the great battles of the spring campaign of 1849. The entire population of Hungary does not have to be armed, fearing the attack of other forces. It is a general public opinion that today Hungary is safe in the military sense, and fortunately, this view is well founded. The Day of Defence is a good opportunity to remember the moments when our predecessors had to fight hard for the security and freedom of Hungarian citizens in Hungary. [[21.00]] The result of these struggles is that today we can live in a basically independent and secure country. By recalling the memories of these struggles, we must make ourselves and all Hungarian citizens aware that today's perceived security is far from self-evident. We can enjoy its blessings because, in the military sense, the Hungarian Defence Office provides them to all Hungarian citizens. To maintain peace, freedom and security, we must fight today as ever in history. Only the way and nature of this struggle have changed. Hungary participates in efforts to maintain international peace and security as a member of the world's strongest military alliance, NATO, and as an active participant in operations carried out in broad international cooperation. At the moment, hundreds of soldiers from the Hungarian Army are serving in various international operations. Our primary interest in security is to contain the world's armed conflicts and prevent their escalation. Although it is a cliché for security workers, it is in the wider public, but even in the political elite, it is only less aware that armed conflicts in a globalised world far from us can undermine the security of our country. This truth has also been highlighted by events in recent years. After all, from one day to the next, the long raging conflicts between the Middle East and North Africa have also become a determining factor in the everyday life of people living in Europe. The events of the last few years have certainly been re-evaluated in the public opinion by the 21st century. The judgement of the soldiers of the century. More and more people see and feel that the soldiers who are serving international operations in Kosovo or Afghanistan today serve to protect the country as did their predecessors in 1848-49. Many people are hearing an approach that calls into question the need to maintain the Hungarian forces, saying that NATO will protect us anyway. NATO is undoubtedly one of the most powerful military organizations in the world, and NATO membership is one of the most important foundations for Hungary's security. However, NATO is only as strong as its Member States are. It is therefore in the interests of all Member States, including Hungary, to maintain a well-prepared and well-equipped force. Allied cooperation does not replace, but multiplys the power and potential of the armies of individual Member States, including the Hungarian Defence Forces. The policy must address serious shortcomings. The illusion of security also led political leaders to underestimate defence issues and the importance of the force. It is now apparent that this has been serious irresponsible, as during the last few years there have been dramatic changes in Europe's wider security environment. Everyone, us politicians, must particularly see and understand the importance of maintaining a modern, prepared force. Today, Hungary's freedom and independence are still guaranteed by the dedication and preparedness of the soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces. On the day of defence, too, it is our duty to thank all the women and men who have taken on the burden of military service and serve our country's freedom, security and independence worthy of their predecessors in 1848-49. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-24-242	Mr László György Lukács applied for a final statement after the last agenda:. These problems were raised by most of the residents at certain stages of the real national consultation. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-05-24-243	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Jobbik launched a genuine national consultation at the beginning of 2016, which we wanted to address and address three very important issues in the context of this consultation. One is the issue of education, the other is the question of health care, and one is a very important third area, and the issue of corruption has also been included among the topics that are certainly worth discussing not only with the profession but also with the population itself, with the voters, but also with all the inhabitants of Hungary. We have certainly taken every opportunity to ensure that the consultation is the most successful. Thus, at the preparatory stage, we have now slowly passed through our consultation with professional organisations - there are dozens of professional organisations that need to be understood in each area. Then we turned to the population a little more directly. On the one hand, we went to places where they work, where people can meet, schools where teachers teach and students learn, but whether it is health institutions where patients - a very important group of opinion- want to heal. So we thought that we would choose a number of ways of consulting which, if you like, we could consult in an irregular way, unlike usual, completely different from government communication and consultation. Thus, my fellow Members and I not only went to volunteer work or go to health institutions, but also my fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar, who is sitting next to me, has personally volunteered work and is doing a volunteer work in a Budapest institution, and I am also working as a similar volunteer nurse. But we can also mention Ander Balázs, as a good example of our fellow Member, who was a story doctor and tried to spend a few hours in hospital for young children, if you will, making them more comfortable and better. In the meantime, it is an excellent opportunity to talk not only to patients but also to those who work there. I think this is the essential and important element of the consultation, which should be implemented by all Members. But to get even closer, we went to almost every county seat to hold a forum, an unusual format forum, in which the population had a much greater opportunity to give their own opinion. So in dealing with the health sector, I took the trouble myself, and I took note of some of the ideas that the residents in these residential forums have said and raised in relation to health. So, for example, there was a middle-aged woman at a residential forum who, in her view, perhaps the biggest problem with health care is that she didn't get enough money, so she put it this way. We all know that this is a question of underfundedness. He said and he suspected that someone was knowingly doing health care so that there wouldn't be enough money. He believes that, overall, people are not being given or that health care is not being given enough money to avoid dealing with people, to be as sick as possible and to be a burden to society for as long as possible. Of course, other serious problems have emerged, such as a commentary in Szeged, who drew attention to the ageing general practitioners, and how right he is, among the general doctors, the corpus shows that the majority of the average life of the general practitioner is over fifty years, and 45 percent of them have also reached 54 years of age, and the supply is lacking. Well, this speaker in Szeged also suggested this, and this, as he said, is, by the way, hampering the availability of the institution, the doctor himself, because not only there is no supply, but there is a combination of districts. Another speaker, who himself is an expert, drew attention to the wage situation, the blissful wage situation in which they live. He believes that the situation of health professionals is not only a matter of wages, but also of appreciation. So you mean appreciation, though you are very happy to work through the twelve hours, but you also want to spend time with your family, and you want patients to see him as being recognized, appreciated in your work. A seemingly non-professional commenter was also able to grasp the essence of government spending, as to why we are not spending the money on health care that the government is otherwise wasting on a railway or a stadium. We could say in light of the latter, perhaps because Viktor won't allow it. But even they didn't know that. One young man noted that one of the serious health problems, based on his own example, was the gratuity money, which unfortunately he met as a tariff at a birth, and which he had been asked in advance by the obstetric gynecologist. I believe that there is one thing that the public forums have confirmed, in any case, that there is a very serious problem in the health sector: underfunding, insufficient resources, a very low level of pay for workers, and all this is the debt that is borne by hospitals - one of the lessons of the real national consultation. Jobbik will continue to consult residents in the real national consultation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP.]]
u2016-05-24-244	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. We will resume the meeting at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 9:09 p.m.]]
