u2016-03-17-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 9th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and István Ikotity will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, MEP Bertalan Tóth, representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, applied for a speech with the title 'Gaz'. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-03-17-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It really sucks, at least that in 24 hours a law on a national pyramid game was adopted, and last night it turned out that a group of companies belonging to an entrepreneurial circle was the only company that could be able to perform this task. Although we are not surprised by individualised legislation, this has been the case, but the problem is that they can accept it in 24 hours, but they have not been able to reduce gas prices for more than a year. For more than a year, we've been saying that the government has been in a lucky position because of the decline in the import prices of energy sources. The government is in a lucky position because it has not had to face four to five increases in energy prices since 2010. You didn't have to watch the price of oil rising from $20 to $100, and from $100 to $400, the import price of natural gas per 1000 cubic meters. By contrast, in recent years regional oil and gas prices have declined slowly and at an accelerated pace. The price of oil dropped from $110 to $30, over 70 percent. According to press reports, the price of Russian imported gas has decreased by half from $400 to $200. The same process took place on the gas exchanges in Western Europe. A year ago, the price of gas per megawattor on the Dutch Stock Exchange was over 22 euros, now costs 12-13 euros. In fact, industrial analysts believe that the price of energy sources is not expected to rise in the foreseeable future. So these are great news in themselves. The problem is, we consumers don't feel anything. And this sucks. Our account has not been reduced for two years, despite the fact that the price of imported natural gas has become 50 percent cheaper. There are a lot of questions about this. Why aren't ordinary people's bills dropping? Where's the energy department at this hour? Where's the Minister of Price Control at this hour? Where's the Fidesz regulator at this hour? Why didn't you come to the Economic Committee meeting when I called you for an open debate? Why does the government continue to make people pay nearly 60 forints for the cubic meter of natural gas when the purchase is less than 50 forints? Why do households have to pay billions more for energy when wages are low anyway? Where will the $10 billion of gas be collected unnecessarily? Is it for the salaries of tens of millions of state CEOs? Or to support the media interests of Árpád Habony and Andy Vajna? This sucks, too. The tacit answer to these questions is that yes, this is unacceptable, this must be put to an end, the reduction in import prices will allow, and people's living conditions will require retail price reductions. It is in all our interests that the reduction in energy prices goes all the way to the consumer, and this will not be prevented by the government. If you were really representing the Hungarian families and not filling the pockets of the outgoing multinationals, prices would have fallen by now. If it were really important for you to lower people's heating bills, you would not want to embezzle EU support to improve the energy efficiency of family homes. Families pay a lot not only because the gas is expensive, but because their buildings are not energy efficient and energy goes away. We therefore consider it necessary, in addition to the price reduction, to continue the energy efficiency programme and not to steal EU support. The MSZP has now submitted for the third time a bill to reduce gas prices by 20 percent up to average consumption, district heating by 10 percent and electricity prices by 10 percent. This is important for the Hungarian people, because there are many households today, nearly 100,000 who have been turned off from these benefits. It would also be important for them to have a price reduction to be part of this service again. We have initiated a resolution proposal, today we will be voting on it, so that the government will launch a complex energy efficiency, insulation and window replacement programme, and today we will also vote on the proposal for a price reduction by Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, Support these proposals, for what is due is due. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2016-03-17-2	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Aradszki, State Secretary, will respond to what has been said.
u2016-03-17-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for giving me the opportunity to answer your question. But like God, it's like God. Honourable Congressman, However, I would like to remind you that during your regency, during the MSZP administration, the price of natural gas was tripled and the price of electricity doubled. As a result of the reduction in electricity prices, Hungary now has the fourth lowest prices in Europe, i.e. in euro, and the second lowest in terms of average prices for gas prices. I also have to add that there has been a decrease in the amount of outstanding amounts and also a decrease in the number of families affected by outstanding amounts over the last few years. It should also be added that when the reduction of the rent was decided, the MSZP strongly opposed this decision. [[Dr. Bertalan Tóth: We voted, that's not true! We voted!]] Among other things, that is what Tibor Kovács, Member of MSZP, said 2013. CHAPTER XI On the 26th of October in a debate here in the House:, Now, let's talk about the consequences of the reduction of the rent, honourable Secretary of State. - That wasn't me. You talked about how important it is to have an energy system in a country that is sustainable, energy efficient and works in the long term. Now, if, as a result of the reduction of the rent, individual service companies do not have enough revenue to make the slightest improvements, there is no immediate consequence. It should be noted that when the energy grid was multi-managed, the energy supply was used to protect the economic interests of the multinationals, the profits of the multinationals, with their swords drawn. When the vast majority of energy suppliers in the gas area are in the hands of the state, this concern does not exist, but it does not have to be, because the services used by the First National Public Service Provider are non-profit-making, i.e. the profits are used only to maintain the systems and the dividends are not taken out by these companies. On the other hand, it must also be said that you know very well, Mr President, that about a fifth of the price of the universal service provider is affected by the price of gas on the world market. [[9.10]] The rest is the so-called system usage charge, which is necessary to enable consumers to use gas when opening the gas tap, to cook, heat and live in normal conditions. This 26 per cent decrease, 25 per cent consumption means that there is no direct impact on the price of gas on the world market. The change, in essence, is that this is the way in which gas can be purchased at a lower rate, which means, of course, that previous reductions in electricity and gas prices have been made by the government in a well-founded manner, calculated in advance, and, as a result, it can be said that the reduction in electricity and gas prices is clearly sustainable and sustainable in the long term. On the other hand, what you are demanding now undermines sustainability. But if we are discussing today the amendment of the Gas Act, it also shows that the government is so far-sighted that it will apply the potential benefits of this in such a way that in the long term the success of the reduction is sustainable. What you're asking for is populism, an admission that, oops, we get to our heads and realize that for eight years, Hungarians have been blackmailed with gas price increases, guiltyly put the profit in other people's pockets. I think, honourable Member, that if you recognise this and consider what you have said professionally, then you must realise that the government is doing well in order to complete and maintain the reduction. In spite of your efforts, you have followed the policy of the government of overhead growth, the Fidesz-KDNP government has been, and will remain, a government for the long term. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-17-4	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr László Földi, representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-03-17-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, If it is not every day, but every holiday and so on, I will meet with the clumsy criticism, the long-winded opinion that it is a pity for many speeches, there is no need for countless recollections, because we already know all about the transversal events of our national history, such as the revolution and the war of freedom of 1848-49, the revolution of 56 or the journey of this world unleashed on us by the national socialist and communist dictatorship. I am convinced that we must always, at all times, talk about these things, never forget them. In 1848 Hungarians throughout Europe gave an echoing response to the call for the National Song. We have once again chosen freedom, the only way of life in which we can be ourselves, which for us Hungarians is like air. It is an invisible, incomprehensible, indispensable condition, the value of which is most profoundly taught by its lack. Today, we are living in a time when Hungary, Europe and the democratic world are echoing again from the final lines of the National Song: Should we be prisoners or are we free? The nation is under attack again. All of Europe is under attack. Millions of strangers can at any time make the decision to launch the greatest invasion of our foreseeable history. Hungary is once again an end castle, and we are once again fighting a freedom fight. I think that we will protect everything that is good for living here: our European culture, our national values, our Christian roots, our earned freedom, our fought independence. Dear House, In addition to the tradition of 48, we must not forget the devastating inhumanity that communism has brought to Hungary. The government announced the Gulag Memorial Year by 2015. As a follow-up, on 19 March Cegléd will now receive the camping service, the travelling car exhibition of the Pécs-Baranyai Nationalities Circle of the Hungarian Germans, which pays tribute to the memory of the innocently deported. Of course, not only in relation to the Memorial Year, but also in the coming years, on 25 November of every year, on the Memorial Day of Hungarian political prisoners and forced workers who have been brought to the Soviet Union, we will also make sure that these historical events also emerge from the oblivion of young people today. We are on the right path, I think, and this is also demonstrated by the outline of a plan for Cegléd, where one of the largest traffic gathering camps was operated to be a Gulagmuseum in the territory of the former Hussar or later Soviet barracks. At the end of World War II, the ex-Cegléd hussar barracks worked as a prisoner of war camp. Yes, unfortunately, still undeservingly few are aware of the shocking historical fact that this was the largest Soviet collector of the Carpathian Basin. A total of 200,000 people were brought here. At least 5,000 of them died, some say 10,000. They died of hunger, died of sickness, died of cruel treatment. They were innocent Hungarian people. Many of them were taken to the gulag on a málenki robot, and many of them did not return. Let us trust in the government's support that from 2017 we will be able to preserve their memory in a museum between the walls whose names were carved into the bricks before they died. There are over 4,000 of these bricks. These bricks are testaments. And the holiday, the memorial day, the exhibition and the museum are turning into action the legacy of the heroes and martyrs who sacrificed their lives and their deaths on the altar of our freedom. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-17-6	Thank you, Earth Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. [[9.20]]
u2016-03-17-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I believe that it is always, but after the anniversaries of revolution and freedom fights, it is particularly important to remember those people who have sacrificed their lives or a significant part of their lives for Hungarian freedom, or who have been victims of a regime, a repressive power that has invaded Hungary and built a dictatorship in Hungary. The people who had been dragged to the Gulag did nothing, perhaps they had only been called German-sounding, and they had to collect a certain number of forced labourers from a settlement, and they were still in the part where this number had to be fulfilled, perhaps the only thing they had to do was that their neighbors liked their property, liked their house, or had to have the pets that they had there, and had good connections to the Communist Party, and thought that he would acquire this item by turning in his neighbor and thereby acquiring his belongings. Indeed, this is how people came from Hungary to the Gulag, the gupvir, the málenkij robot, Soviet forced labor. Eight hundred thousand of our countrymen were taken, half of the population of today's Budapest is the size of those who were taken at the end of World War II following a simple, simple, one-sided order from Stalin to replace the labour force that fell out of the Soviet Union due to the devastation of the World War. They were taken to forced labor, taken to modern - day slave labor, held people in terrible conditions, with continuous and very cruel work. 200,000 of our 800,000 countrymen who were taken away by the Soviets have never returned to Hungary, and even today very few people know and have very little knowledge about this either in education or in the field of adults. That is why the Hungarian government announced the Gulag Memorial Year or Memorial Years, the Memorial of Prisoners and Forced Workers brought to the Soviet Union, and that is why the Hungarian Parliament adopted the resolution proposal that declared 25 November a Memorial Day for Prisoners and Forced Workers brought to the Soviet Union. The series of commemorations contained countless events. Allow me to mention some of these, which have been implemented with the support of the Hungarian Government and the Memorial Committee. On February 25, 2015, the International Society of Gulágkutók opened an exhibition on the Málenkij robot entitled "Trauma and Taboo" held in the Upper House in the House of Parliament on Andrássy Road, which will be shown by the end of October, presenting in Hungarian and English the horrors that have been committed to our countrymen. The memorial committee supported a monument in Ottawa. Unfortunately, the strange thing is that in Canada, Ottawa, there will be a memorial to the victims of communism before in Hungary, and few people have been taken from Canada, but there are still among the fourth Canadian ancestors who had to leave their original residence because of the communists. Today, a quarter of Canada's population fled and lives in Canada because of the Communists. That is why they considered it important to create a monument that bows to the victims of communism. On 23 August, on the Memorial Day of the victims of totalitarian dictatorships in Europe, we organized a commemorative procession with a traditional purpose, from the monument of the victims of the Holocaust to the museum of the victims of communism, the House of Terror Museum. A memorial procession was held on 21 November in the organisation of the Association of Prisoners and Forced Workers brought to the Soviet Union, in which Prime Minister also spoke. He was at the Hungarian Academy of Sciences on 25 November, on the Memorial Day, organized by the National Remembrance Committee with the title of Gulág-gupvi, the Soviet Detention in Europe. The lagoon referred to by the Member started on 24 February and stops at the railway stations of the major cities of Hungary. Everyone in this car is free to go in and see the exhibition. Where the camp passage doesn't get to, we plan to get to the exhibition, which is locked in the, in Barakk, sentenced to life, which, furnished in a former barracks, presents in a special way the terrible images of the former captivity and the triumphant, still living images of the survivors, as there are many who have defeated the Soviet Union and still live among their families. The Veritas Institute for History also organized a conference with the support of the Memorial Committee, titled "Our Tragedies in the Carpathian Basin" Film nights were launched, Gulag film evenings from Sándor Sára's films and other films in Budapest and the countryside, and we trust that the victims of the Soviet occupation can be commemorated in Budapest and Cegléd. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-17-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Representative Sallai Benedek, representative of the May Other Politics, also spoke before the agenda. Whose interest is Fidesz ground-privatisation, and why did people's opinions be left out of the whole matter? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-03-17-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I don't really have much of a chance to do it slowly, but to talk about the fact that there is still a daily waste and circumvention of state land here in Parliament from time to time. This statutory theft is taking place with increasing social attention, with which the Hungarian state can practically do what the previous governments have never done: the circumvention of land owned by the state. I would like to draw your attention to one thing. It is often said here among the walls of Parliament that if we notice any irregularities, we should report them, as this is the legal solution to these things. The interesting thing I would like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to is the pricing that has been established for the land that has been auctioned. Why is that interesting? I have also asked the Minister about this in writing, but I have not been able to get a consistent answer as to who and how he came up with these prices, but let me draw attention to maladministration that we are experiencing now. In the first round it took place that the nephews of Sándor Fazekas, the Bekecs brothers, were able to buy land in Tiszaszentimrén, and one of them bought 50 hectares for less than HUF 200,000 per hectare. In the second round, however, a few ten kilometres away from Turkish Miklós, there is an economy very close to the government, which is in the interest of a Croatian gentleman, many say that it is also in the Prime Minister's interest. The Turkish Szentmiklós was one of the dirty 12 state economies, which in 2001 was privatized under rather suspicious circumstances by the first Orbán Cabinet. There, at an unacceptable low price, it rents land from the state for a long time from this former state economy for approximately HUF 500 in gold crowns. What God gives, there are the same experts who at the land of Mátyás Bekecs thought that a land worth less than HUF 200,000 per hectare was found to be worth HUF 1.8 million in the same land. How is that possible? The only way is if we don't want to sell one of them if we want to put one in position. We'd like to keep one of your favorable terms, since you're probably at the top of your buyout, you don't have to sell. The Turkish farmers of Szentmiklós are lucky to have 1.8 million per hectare and the Tiszaszentimres can go for 200,000 because there is an interest in the Minister. I tried to talk about this maladministration, and I filed a report on a misdemeanor abuse of office. The interesting thing is that the police refused to press charges because they said that the NFA was not an office, so that there would be no administrative abuse. So please don't give us any advice on what to do about these matters, as long as the police and the D.A.'s office are on these issues. That's what we're talking about. If you don't want to sell something, it's 1.8 million per hectare, and if you want to give something to a relative or acquaintance, it's less than 200,000 forints per hectare. In addition to these maladministrations, we have to deal with the goals and places of these lands at everyday level. Now, when, fortunately, the collection of signatures started and hundreds of signatures came together at a single counter only on 15 March, there is finally a chance that society can give its opinion on whether the state would like to sell the land owned by the community. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State how you feel about this. Should the auctions continue until the referendum is reached? I don't know if you remember that time because of your time as Secretary of State, I still remember when Fidesz had some democratic value when it was still important to the society you were talking about, and I still remember you saying that in a democratic institution there is a priority in the expression of society. I wonder if they can stop, can they stop, can they wait for the Hungarian society to give its opinion on the process that you started after the referendum was launched in autumn 2016. I would like to know at all whether there is any chance that they will reconsider, and now, after the March round, do not continue the process that has obviously resulted in abuses and the strengthening of the large estate structure in Hungary. The process that they have started will obviously have a very, very harmful, long-term adverse effect on the Hungarian countryside, the Hungarian agriculture, and the signs of this clearly show the development of the estate structure, the growth of the main estate structure. With all due respect, there is a chance that we will wait for the referendum, stop further auctions, and the government will reconsider this misguided concept. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[9.30]]
u2016-03-17-10	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Márton Bitay responds to what has been said.
u2016-03-17-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Many people envy me for having to argue with a Member in Parliament. Some people think it's very simple, others think it's very difficult for me because you're a big fighter, and you always say these texts. But he's always giving us such a big deal. I don't mean to offend you, but how did you put it this time, that you filed a complaint about a misdemeanor abuse in a sale of real estate that takes place at a public auction? Well, at a public auction, it'll be sold at the price at the auction. [[Sallai R. Benedek: I was talking about the starting price.]] The starting price is also a very important aspect, and you are certainly right about that. Although it's not my place to protect the police, let's not hurt them. At an auction, calling out office abuse because of the starting price, it's a little bit more complicated. Perhaps we should wait for the end of that auction, and when we see the value of that land, then we can think about it. I'm not saying we shouldn't think about it, let's see how good the pricing was, the pricing wasn't good. I would add that, for the time being, farmers will always find me by saying that the land is incredibly expensive so that it can buy private land at a much cheaper price. What is the reason why the state offers such high prices? The other one, not hurting you, but throwing up high balls, and you know this: now you're comparing the starting price of a pasture with a golden crown of 1-2-3, in better case there's 20-30 hectares that even a whole cattle can graze on, because it's so salty, grounded pasture with 30 golden crowned fields? Well, I'm sorry, but it's gonna be different, it's gonna be different, it's gonna be different from the starting price. But here, too, we have the good fortune that, after all, it's not us, it's not the state that decides, but there's a price competition, and at the end of it, there's a price competition. There were areas where the starting price went up more than ten times the final purchase price, and there were also areas that did not sell at the starting price. It's a pretty volatile thing, though. As far as the programme is concerned, or the referendum you asked: of course, everything can be considered if we can get to the position that there will be a referendum at all. But that's not what this is about. There is an initiative, typically this is a political debate, not a request from farmers, not a protest from farmers to buy land, there is an opposition part of politics that does not want Hungarian family farms to be able to buy land at any cost. We respect that. We just disagree. But now to stop the program that has not even been called for a referendum at all, but you will start collecting signatures, and then we will see how successful this will be, I think that would be an early step. As to the success of the program, I can tell you that in 2015 we sold 130,000 hectares in 12,000 properties and 8 thousand customers bought in these areas. He mentioned the estate, and it seems to me again a little chanting, which has no particular basis. I'd like to reassure you that 91 percent of the customers bought under 50 acres. I think that's a very good ratio. And if I look at the fact that a total of 10,000 hectares of land over 150 hectares have been sold out of the 130,000 hectares, then either by number or size in any way, how should I put this delicately, there is no basis for the claim that you have shared with us here. Who's in favor of this land program? The Hungarian farmers, the middle class of agriculture. We're here to confirm them. It's a loan to buy up to 300 hectares, which is otherwise required by the law. And in order not to have a debate about auctions or sales, we are therefore selling at a public auction, and under legal conditions, not in a tendering procedure. We will continue the program in 2016. So far, on the 10 auction days, 30,000 hectares have been sold, 826 customers. And who's in charge of this program? I would add that what is certainly not good is, for example, the suggestion that you and LMP should introduce some kind of land tax in Hungary. Well, that certainly doesn't help farmers or the Hungarian agricultural economy. I think that if they can buy land at a public auction, it will only help Hungarian agricultural production. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-17-12	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Bitay. Dear Parliament, Mr Zsolt Egyed, from Jobbik's group, also applied for a speech before the agenda: our ten-year debts in the field of animal protection. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-03-17-13	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, We must point out that we really and truly have decades behind in the field of animal protection. Unfortunately, if we look towards Western Europe, we can deduct the consistency that perhaps even more. However, I have enjoyed the last few weeks that since I launched the animal protection round table in January, animal protection has suddenly become important to all parties. Although it should be noted here that, unfortunately, I don't think it's credible enough for you, because you're in your third term, the Socialist Party has been governed for three cycles, and you could have done so, you could have made the right laws. But nothing happened in this case. So I don't think your standing on this case is credible. But that is not what I think is really important, but that something is going to happen. Because there are untenable conditions. I would like to draw attention here, for example, to animal torture cases that have only been discovered in recent times; in Deteken, Kazincbarcika, Sajószentpéter and for the last time in Kecskemét, where civil animal protection organisations organised the protest. By the way, we will also be holding our demonstration on the 23rd in Sajószentpéter, because we believe that standing up is absolutely important. But what are these cases, what do they look like? 'Cause unfortunately, it's a very wide-ranging story. Here it is important to mention the illegal dog fights, which, in my experience, take place in the segregation of towns and cities. Unfortunately, I, too, have the experience that when this is announced to the police, there are not really any appropriate steps to be taken, they do not really want to deal with it. Here, perhaps the Ministry of the Interior has the greatest responsibility to plant in the police's mind the fact that these are matters of importance and cause great social outrage. It is also very important to mention what has happened in the last few days, and there has been an acquittal in effect. A hunter shot the dog out of a group of tourists and then threatened the group with a gun. Well, fellow Members, in a well-functioning country, the hunter would have been closed for at least years. There would be a number of legal provisions against him here. It's just unacceptable! By the way, with my fellow Members, we will probably - probably not, certainly - also take the initiative to tighten up the hunting law. Because, for example, in cases like these that I was just talking about, it's at least to take that man's gun license away from him forever, because he's dangerous to everyone, he's dangerous to society. Unfortunately, it has to be stated here that the hunting community today also looks like 20 percent are actual hunters and 80 percent are hunters because they have the money. I'd also like to give you a few thoughts about lawn-master farms. We know very well what conditions prevail. Civil society would expect us to take the right steps in order to build this system slowly and hand over these lawnmasters to civil animal protection organisations. I think it would be humane and perhaps the best solution in this situation. I must also mention the dog breeding law, which is currently in front of this House. I think it's against breeders, too. I have also told Mr Secretary of State that this would not be the primary task. The primary task would be to distinguish between breeders and reproductives by law, because right now, if you look at such advertising sites, it is full of dogs that I think have nothing to do with breeding, but are practically propagating. The other thing is very important, and I would also like to mention here that a responsible government would not primarily be thinking about amending the dog breeding law here and there, but should start a campaign to ensure that anyone who wants to take an animal should adopt a dog or cat from the shelter instead. [[9.40]] There is currently a tendency in Hungary to supply Western Europe with dogs, because there is no proper regulation, there is no proper system to prevent unwanted growth. Finally, I would like to say that there is a need for a national neutering action, because until then, civil animalists are fighting windmills in this case, there will be no changes until then. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-17-14	Thank you, Alderman. On behalf of the Government, István Nagy State Secretary will respond.
u2016-03-17-15	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear fellow Members, Let me first say that animal protection is not a party policy issue, but a question of humanity. First of all, I would like to thank you very much for once again calling attention to the importance of animal protection in your speech. I can assure you that we pay particular attention to ensuring the well-being of animals living in our country, so that the Ministry of Agriculture and the National Food Chain Safety Office will continue to work on this, in close cooperation with the various state and municipal bodies and civil animal protection organisations. Our work to protect animals has been shown, among other things, in the legislative steps of recent years. One of the most important legislative changes in the area in recent years was that from 1 January 2013 all dogs older than four months of age had to be microchipd and their data had to be recorded in a national database. As a result of these measures, some 2.5 million animals have been identified, according to database data, thanks to the introduction of mandatory individual marking. The government decree on the keeping and marketing of pet animals also serves the welfare of dogs; this amendment entered into force on 1 January 2016 under which it is prohibited to keep dogs permanently bound. We have informed the population of the changes in the regulation on the stipulation of dogs in several forums over the past period. In March 2014, the National Food Chain Safety Office, in conjunction with a national chain collection operation, drew attention to legislative changes within the framework of the Master's Programme, while during the national agricultural and food exhibition and fair held in September 2015, the Ministry of Agriculture informed visitors about the obligations of livestock owners. In order to clarify the misunderstandings on the subject, the Nébih also published a communication on 8 January 2016. The only reliable and humane means of keeping stray populations of dogs and cats at a manageable level and preventing unwanted reproductions is the neutering of animals. Recognizing this, Nébih concluded on 4 October 2013 an agreement with the Faculty of Veterinary Science of St. Stephen's University, in which the university performed the neutering of a thousand dogs living in an orphaned, approved animal shelter with the participation of veterinary students. The aim of the programme was to increase the chances of the animals being adopted, to encourage responsible livestock farming and to successfully complete the spaying programme. In addition to animal welfare concerns, a high number of stray animals and a high level of risk to humans, such as rabies, pose an increased risk to public health, which is why we are working on a government regulation on detailed rules for the performance of tasks related to the capture, transfer and placement of stray animals within the settlements. In view of the fact that the majority of animals in our country are farm animals, in addition to pet animals, their well-being should be taken into account. This is to be done by applying animal welfare responsibility to large numbers of livestock farms in Hungary from 2013 ahead of EU legislation. We believe that proper treatment of animals requires a reflection of society as a whole. In order to achieve this goal, we believe that the most effective tools are the early start of education on the respect, protection and good behaviour of animals. These include the. Free program, including the Visitor-partner project to help train guide dogs. Education for the respect and appreciation of animals is a long process, to which we are only at the beginning. Thus, despite the fact that animal cruelty has been a crime since 2004, we are regretting cases of animal abuse and animal cruelty from time to time. However, experience has shown that in many cases the current penalties are not sufficiently dissuasive. In view of this, there are discussions on the possibility of amending the Criminal Code Act. With the above examples, we would also like to indicate that the Ministry is doing everything in its power to protect animals. Our aim is to increase the responsibility of livestock owners and to educate them about responsible livestock farming. Everyone in this work can count on the Ministry's partnership. Mr. President. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-17-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. State Secretary Péter Hoppál, representative of Fidesz, also submitted a speech before the agenda with the title: "Reformation 500 - Renewal. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-03-17-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Nowadays, in the world of the Internet, we are often confronted with tabloid articles that take stock of time moments, age - changing events that have changed the world according to the sound of titles. If we seriously consider the millennium of European cultural history behind us, with this trendy approach, what events have really contributed to the change of European civilisation, the period of Renaissance humanism must be in a beating place among the most powerful nodes. In the middle of this era, we find the date of the start of the Reformation, October 31, 1517. At the famous historical moment, a German Augustine monk, university professor Martin Luther nailed the 95 points of the most urgent reform of the medieval Christian church to the gate of the castle church in Wittenberg. At the same time Ulrich Zwingli and then János Calvin started his religious renewal movement in Switzerland. Obviously, these scholars did not know that we had made the Catholic Church break apart, leading to the creation of another great branch of Christendom, Protestantism, in which Evangelical, Reformed, Baptist, Unitarian, and other denominations began their journey. But more important things have happened in the history of mankind. Reformation, without exaggeration, has indeed changed the world of its time. The humanist philosophy that started civilization at that time placed a significant emphasis on the meaning and responsibility of man's existence in this world. Instead of native language, national Bible translation, literature, singing, poetry, and Latin, the churches of the Reformation were creators of the native religious order, who put the emphasis on the individual's responsibility for life by means of the credit that the individual can understand and teach them. Art branches, literature, music, fine arts, but even architecture are taking a new direction. The further consequence of their activity is the biblical declaration of the principle of decent profit, through which the church is maintained by the community, responsibility, and giving of individuals, not by their feudal possessions. This is how the Swiss banking system grows out of this circle of thinking, but Max Weber's famous conclusion is that the Reformation also creates the foundations of capitalism. All these processes are remembered in the world in 2017, on the 500th anniversary of the Reformation. But next year, outside Europe, we will be celebrating North America, part of Africa and slightly Australia and Asia. And since the most eastern European bastion of the Reformation is the XVI. Hungary became of the century, Protestantism does not spread to the east of the Carpathians, so we Hungarians have a special responsibility to keep and celebrate the half-thousandth anniversary. No smaller encyclopedia scientist than Professor István Nemeskürty, who died a few months ago, wrote in many of his studies as a Catholic thinker: if there were no Reformation, we would no longer speak Hungarian. But so did Gyula Illyés, our age-old writer's head. And indeed, the unfolding of Hungarian literature or the renewal of the language, but also in the reform and our great freedom movement, to a significant extent, is the motivation of the spiritual movements of the Hungarian Protestant people and intellectuals. It's enough to think of Bocskai, the Kurts, Kazinczy, Kölcsey, the Anthem poet, Gold, Petőfi, Jókai, or later Ady. [[9.50]] It is appropriate and worthy that the Hungarian Government and the Hungarian Protestant historical churches established the Reformation 500 Memorial Committee for the half-thousandth anniversary of the Reformation. In addition to the theme of the upcoming years, the Board announces significant applications for the memory communities of the Carpathian Basin. Actors, literary and artistic works, films, competitions, concerts, archives, library research, scientific conferences, scholarships contribute to the socialization of the jubilee. The series of programmes launched on 29 February 2016 warns that the Reformation has something to say about the 21st century. For Hungary of the century. -Reformation 500 - The momentum of renewal, - proclaims the chosen central message. And the momentum of renewal does not focus on what separates it, but on what is the real value that connects it. He says we have experience of how one man, the community, the nation can be renewed. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-17-18	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Peter Hoppál. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2016-03-17-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think it was a worthy commemoration and a worthy line of thought for the 500th anniversary of the Reformation, what the Member said and what he represents, whether in his work as Secretary of State or in his work to contribute to the operation of the Reformation Memorial Committee. We believe that the Reformation has started a process that is part of the Hungarian national performance, the Reformation is part of the Hungarian heritage and part of Hungary's future. This goes far beyond the church's narrow boundaries and outlines. This is important for the whole Hungarians, for all of Europe, and I can say this, I think, also as a Catholic, because fortunately today it is religiousism, our Reformation, our Catholicism that connects us, and not what separates us. CHAPTER XVI The events of the century were decisive for the future of Europe as a whole. The Member has already explained in detail what economic and social changes have started, which is why it was important for the Hungarian Government to bring a Reformation Memorial Committee to life not only for the year of the Memorial Committee, but also for the year of last year, and this year it has already launched a number of nearly 200 programmes and proposals, which I will talk about later. This committee's work involves not only politicians, but also church leaders and professionals. It is his own credo, if I may put it this way, that the Memorial Committee should not just be about reminiscing about the Memorial Year, but that we should see and preserve the values that can be passed on to today's Hungary, today's Europe, today's Reformed Church, today's Christianity and Christianity. It is especially important to return and look back to the start of the year because, if we look at the history of the last 1500 to 2000 years here in Europe, we always see that when someone wanted to start something new, when they started a Reformation, their new search was always one by looking for the roots, where we originally started, remodeling, reforming, looking at the traditions of the original Christianity at that time, looking at the original values that we started along, and if we started to modernise, if they started to modernise, more precisely, in the last centuries, thousands of years in Europe, which have survived in the long term, it was always a renewal that set the return to the roots on its flag. I think it's important to know that when there are often only short-term driving theories. The reason why Hungary needs and needs a memory of the Reformation and the implementation of such programmes is because Europe is in a situation which means not only an economic crisis, but a moral crisis. In this moral crisis, the return to the principles of economic organisation, or to moral principles, to which the Member pointed out, is at least as important as promoting the economy. This is not only an issue of the home affairs of Protestant churches, but also an educational issue for Hungary as a whole, an educational issue, an important issue for families, an important cultural area, an artistic area, an economic or work ethics area for all of us. It complements, I think, the 2016 St. Martin Memorial Year, when Christian churches were still united, the 2017 Reformation Memorial Year. I believe that every conscious Christian community, Christian community, can benefit from faith, regardless of belief commitment, if it participates in these two commemorative years. As I said, the Memorial Committee has already decided on 200 projects in the preparatory year. It has four working groups: the Culture Task Force, the Scientific Working Group, the Inter-Religious Working Group and the Strategic Working Group. This also shows the ecumenical nature of the interreligious, the ecumenical nature of this commemorative year. Proposals with an aid intensity of 100% already prefinanced were launched and may be submitted by 1 April. The government and the Memorial Committee provide funding for the organisation of conferences between 100 and 600 thousand forints. As a lecturer, you can also support between 30 and 300 thousand forints, apply for grants for scientific research between 100 and 400 thousand forints, and apply for scientific publishing of books and journals between 100 thousand and 1 million 200 thousand forints. You can find the details either on the Memorial Committee's website or on the EMET website. We hope that we can thus contribute to the preparation of all Hungarians' celebrations. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-17-20	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I declare that the Committee on Foreign Affairs has decided that T/9298 on the announcement of the agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Mongolia on the visa waiver of their nationals with diplomatic and service passports. It intends to hold a detailed debate as a committee on the legislative proposal No 102 of the Rules of Procedure for the final vote. § 6 of the Act does not take place this week at this meeting. Dear Parliament, A joint debate on the proposal for national home-building communities will follow in an exceptional procedure. The government referral is T/9660. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to give the floor to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office, Antal Rogán, the author of the bill, within a 15-minute time frame. You have the floor, Minister.
u2016-03-17-21	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the current cabinet in Hungary is once the government of home creation with the help of families, the reduction of taxes and the programmes launched at the end of the previous year. These goals are the same goals that civil governments have always pursued in Hungary, and it is enough to think back on the period 1998-2002, since tax cuts on one side and support for families on the other, the introduction of family tax incentives on the other hand, and a major home creation programme on the third side. We sincerely regret that the announcement of a new home creation programme was necessary because, by the way, after 2002, the socialist-free Democratic Cabinets of the time, step by step, but practically the entire home creation support system was abolished in Hungary, and instead they offered people foreign exchange loans, the consequences of which I think we have seen quite clearly in recent years. After 2010, when the country was all in a difficult situation, the budget was in a difficult situation, the level of public debt was high, so we had to choose from the tax reduction, the support of families and the home-building programme within the limits allowed by the budget for the three very important purposes that we consider to be extremely important. I think you can now see clearly that the Hungarian reforms really work, because the level of public debt is nearly 10 percent lower than in 2010, when we took over the government pole from the Socialist-Free Democratic Government. We should also add that, in contrast to the eight years before that, in the last six years, the public debt in Hungary went down while going up in Europe. In the previous period, he went down in Europe and only went up in Hungary. [[10.00]] We should also add that before 2010, Hungarian indebtedness was still above the EU average, and today it is below the EU average. These are the reasons why the budget today has more room for manoeuvre in order to re-launch the benefits and programmes for home creation that were already present before 2002 and even to supplement them. The framework for home creation in Hungary today is a number of measures that we launched in December of the previous year. What is perhaps the first thing worth highlighting is the drastic reduction in the VAT on the sale of new dwellings. Here, too, it was the socialist-free Democratic Cabinets which, by the way, doubled the tax on housing construction in Hungary. Compared to this, we have now managed to bring down to the lowest tax rate, 5% of the VAT on new housing and private construction. I think this was an extremely important step. This was complemented by the expansion and increase of family home-building benefits. This was done in two steps by the government. On the one hand, in the second half of the previous year, we have already introduced that the family home-building discount was also available for the purchase of apartments and renovations, and we have defined the system of this. Last December, looking at the experience of the first half of the year, we simplified and increased the amount of aid for the purchase of used dwellings and renovations, and we added the family home creation discount, but with the significant increase that can be used to build new apartments. This could be up to HUF 10 million for families with three children, which we added to a discount loan of HUF 10 million with state-supported interest. This was also linked to the significant simplification of the construction rules, and we have already indicated that we consider it important to significantly increase public support for house savings compared to the current system. Anyone who wants to buy or build an apartment in Hungary today can, of course, have a variety of options. You can take advantage of the fact that you use the family home-building discount, even if you have an advance on having children. You can take advantage of the possibility of borrowing, but you can also use it to launch house savings or combine them with each other. State aid for house savings is not new in Hungary, it was also introduced by the first civil government, which was implemented through the savings banks of the housing sector. I would like to stress to you, before this House, that housing savings banks are still important to the government and will continue to be supported financially in the coming years, i.e. in the same way as state aid. The savings generated by the housing savings banks are the most important savings for housing purposes in terms of the purchase of used housing and renovation. More than 95 percent of these have been used in recent years for this purpose. At present, in the housing savings bank system, the state grants 30 percent of state aid, with a maximum of HUF 72 thousand per year, which can otherwise achieve a very serious return, and can typically be used to renovate and buy used apartments. This was the case in Hungary, but 95 percent of these payments were basically used to renovate houses and buy used apartments. We believe that savings for housing purposes should also be supported and encouraged in the case of the purchase of a new apartment. This is what the establishment of national home-building communities is about and the bill that has come before you. For national home-building communities, we only allow the purchase of new homes as an exclusive goal. Thus, savings for housing purposes to be paid here, supported by the State, cannot be used for house renovation and cannot be used for the purchase of used dwellings, only and exclusively for the purchase or construction of new dwellings. We think that this is an important national goal. It is an important national economic objective because, if you look at it, Hungary is not lagging behind in relation to the statistics of the surrounding countries, but in relation to the construction of new dwellings. If we look at the last full-year data - although 2015 does not yet have a provision - we are recalling 2014 then we see that the number of new-house constructions in Hungary is about a quarter of Poland, a third of the Czech Republic and about half of Slovakians. We therefore believe that new housing constructions should be encouraged. This was the purpose of the significant increase in the CSOK, which was, of course, the aim of reducing the VAT on housing construction; and the same purpose is that savings for new housing will be supported by the state, and that is what the system of the national home-building community is all about. It is also worth adding that this is also important for GDP and, of course, for job creation. The construction of a new apartment contributes eight times as much to the growth of the national total product as a renovation of a flat, and, as a matter of fact, it also means more in jobs. Therefore, both job creation and the increase in GDP, the total national product, requires us to support the construction of new dwellings more and more exponentially and, accordingly, to support savings for new housing by the state. But I would like to add to you that at the same time, the government must have an important objective of two more things in relation to national home-building communities. One is security; the other is, as a matter of fact, not to support a savings, but to support the construction of a new dwelling. Let me start with the latter. In the case of housing savings banks, it is the practice, and we can clearly see that there is a maturity. Until the end of this term, these savings will not be used until the end of the term. Until then, state aid will go; until then, this is a form of savings; in a sense, the state will support a saving. We believe that this is, of course, correct, but in the case of new housing constructions, we would aim to ensure that new housing constructions start as soon as possible. Therefore, the state has decided and the government is proposing to you that we support a form of savings where construction of new housing is considered to be continuous. An example of this is the English building society system, which, of course, has undergone a variety of changes during the various periods of history, but basically, it is based on the fact that there is a community that organises itself, which pays savings, and therefore, during the term period, apartments are transferred in several instalments. In this case, it means that if, say, a community is created with a ten-year term, which is regulated by this law, and let's say, it agrees that 300 apartments will be built during this period, this does not mean that at the end of the term, in 10 years, there will be 300 apartments, but will be handed over annually, which, I think, is more useful, efficient and certainly more appropriate in the national economy. That's why we chose this building society form to support savings. I would like to add to you that, on the other hand, security is very important here. We want to keep the savings of people who join such a community safe. Therefore, there are basically very strict preconditions for State aid. Anyone can establish such a community if they meet certain preconditions of the law, i.e. core capital, Hungarian national banking license, but no one can receive state aid. This is the difference, because state aid can only be granted to those who have been operating safely for at least two years with at least a thousand apartments transferred during this period; during this period, [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: By name?]] in addition to the transfer of the thousand dwellings, they have at least complied with the fact that no official proceedings have been initiated against them, that they comply with the consumer protection rules and that no winding-up proceedings have been initiated against them. I think that these are the minimum preconditions for the state to be able to really know the state's state aid that it is paying. I would like to stress to you that state aid is not for the company, nor for the organizer, nor even for the community, but for the person who pays the savings for his part. So the individual himself is the beneficiary of the savings, but his savings are only safe if otherwise this happens in a place that we believe meets the conditions of at least one multi-annual operation. Therefore, the law lays down rather strict rules for achieving State aid, but I think that anyone who forms such a group today, otherwise, in two years, could eventually achieve access to state aid. All you have to do is organise the conditions for safe operation and the transfer of thousands of homes. [[10.10]] I would like to add to you that this model is, as a matter of course, about the fact that, here, too, we need to separate things from each other in ownership. So there is the organizer, and the organizer is next to the community; that the community is a kind of community of property, the community of people, and the people in the community of property are those who, by the way, receive support from the government, like the housing savings banks, and the organizer operates independently. Both the organizer and the community must meet certain requirements, for example, there are rules on own funds in the law. But this community, which is created in this form, is also a kind of risk community. This means that we are not talking about a form of bank savings here, and because it is a risk community, it is therefore necessary to establish strict preconditions, since this risk community is not guaranteed by the OBA, the National Deposit Insurance Fund. This risk community is an existing risk community where people who are members of it commit themselves, in a sense, to each other. After all, there will be, say, 300 apartments out of a community of 300 people, so that even if the people who joined in make their deposit, even if one of them was the first to have access to the apartment, and maybe one of them will have access to the apartment as the last. To this end, the bill also introduces safeguards, strict safeguards to ensure that the solidarity of the members of the community can be enforced against each other, and since there is no guarantee of deposit guarantee here, it also follows that the bill will, mutatis mutandis, free the possibility to enforce the mortgage against those who do not fulfil their obligation to pay to the community, i.e. to carry out the savings. This, I think, protects those who, by the way, fairly comply with the contract, who are therefore constantly paying, and accordingly expect that savings and state aid together will result in a new home for them, a new apartment. Dear Parliament, I think that the adoption of this bill will help to speed up the pace of new housing construction in Hungary. As the situation in the construction sector today also calls for this to take place as soon as possible, the government has initiated an urgent discussion of the bill. Thank you very much for your support from a large majority of Parliament. [[Dr. Tamás Bell: Poor!]] and I would ask you to support this bill, as appropriate, after this debate. Although I have no doubt that there are factions here who are also looking for kakaban knots, who have previously eliminated state-supported discounts, and [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: We do not want to support state theft, that is the case.]] Those who, by the way, did not support the urgent discussion of the measures taken in December, may not have been able to obtain the goodwill of them, but I trust that the majority of Parliament, on the other hand, considers home creation an important goal and considers it an important goal to build as many new homes as possible in Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-17-22	Thank you, Minister Antal Rogán. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will now be presented. For all of this, you have 15 minutes. I can give the floor to Congressman Sándor Hadházy, rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, in no more than eight minutes.
u2016-03-17-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/9660 on an exceptional basis yesterday. The Committee presented a draft amendment and a summary report on the national home-building communities, summarizing 20 yes and five genders. The summarised amendment contains the legislative committee's own proposal, which only provides linguistic and legal clarification on the proposal. [[Dr. László Varga: It was great the way it was.]] Under the exceptional procedure, the Legislative Committee also discussed the amendments made by Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, MP Jobbikos. In agreement with the Government's position, the Committee did not support either the limitation of eligibility or the creation of a separate insurance fund. The latter, in particular due to its price-expensive impact, adding that the proposal contains sufficient and reassuring guarantees for safe operation. The critical remarks of the socialists were particularly interesting, who, at the time of their administration, forced families into the trap of foreign exchange credit only in order to create a home. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Didn't you think of that yesterday?]] Instead of making proposals for merit, they were just trying to excite mistrust. As I said at the committee's meeting, the government is pursuing an earlier tradition that has been broken by the socialist planning economy and nationalization, and we hope only temporarily. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: This was not said yesterday, you should say what was said!]] We continue to believe in the power of communities, the creation of a family home, the promotion of construction, the growth of the national economy, so please respectfully support the proposal. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: You have six minutes left! A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-17-24	Thank you very much, Congressman Hadházy. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow socialist Members to their opportunity in a live word. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: We will use it!]] I want you to say out loud everything that's been called in. The minority opinion expressed in the committee will be presented by two speakers within a time frame of seven minutes. First, I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Bellozó.
u2016-03-17-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Let us just say to you, as President-in-Office, that we dared only tell our fellow Member that he was talking about things he hadn't thought of yesterday at the committee meeting, so that didn't even come out, so that wasn't even house-regular, but obviously the least of the problems with this law, Mr President. So, Minister Rogán, the fact that a government and a government member come here after six years of government talks about what it is like to build, if I remember correctly, three times as many apartments in the Czech Republic as in Hungary, and even at the committee meeting, that even in Ukraine, where there are half-war conditions, there are also more apartments than in Hungary, and this is the reason why a government wants to force a law through Parliament in 24 hours, or will break a law that has no precedent in Hungary, either in society or in legislation, we believe that it is a Scandinavia. Look, Minister, there should have been an announcement here in such a 24-hour period that Minister Varga, who is in charge of housing matters, comes here and apologizes to Hungary that, in six years' time, your housing policy has failed completely and resigns and leaves politics. This was supposed to happen in 24 hours, not this bill. And if you would consider, Minister, how many hundred billion forints have you spent on stadiums in the last six years, where, perhaps you have already noticed, young families are unable to father or raise or raise children, you would know exactly what should have been done in recent years. Then I'll tell you, Minister, your exposé, what you didn't say here on purpose, or twisted, or specifically silenced. First of all, we learned from the law that, once again, we know specifically, by name, who it is meant for. The terms of the law, as long as you just tell me how strict they are, are so strict that today in Hungary a single group of companies, a company belonging to a single ownership group, can meet them. [[Dr. László Varga: To do you a favor...]] Once again, in the name of a reliable organizer, they've done this before, we knew that it was the law on gambling, there was a law on Andy Vajna, now it's a law on another private company. It is therefore also important to state that this is not a state system, Minister. Here, you will give public money to private companies, public money, and otherwise you will act on your own responsibility. I would like to say to everyone who will consider whether or not to be a citizen, that you will not give them any state guarantee. So after a Quaestor scandal, the most comforting thing you can tell the Hungarian people is that György Matolcsy and that Hungarian National Bank are the guarantees that no one will leave the tens of thousands of families on the side of the road again, and that György Matolcsy and his National Bank will pay attention to this money, under whom, personally and with this authority, HUF 220 billion has been stolen in the biggest brokerage scandal since the regime change in Hungary under your government. It's the only guarantee they have. Ladies and gentlemen, This bill is thus irresponsible and unthinkable in 24 hours, and we believe that a responsible Member of Parliament cannot take part in this decision. We know precisely that the vast majority of Hungarian people, at least we know that I think Mr. State Secretary or Minister would also have the opportunity to read the statistics, have no savings, live from month to month, and the vast majority of people will not be able to participate in this programme. [[10.20]] If you want a real solution, let's talk about, for example, how a young family can be helped by rent subsidies, public rentals, or other means. I'm sure that's not what this is about right now. Thank you so much for listening.
u2016-03-17-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. Three minutes left for Congressman László Lukács, Jobbik.
u2016-03-17-27	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Continuing with the discussion of the minority opinion formulated in the Legislative Committee, it was said at the committee's meeting and called upon everyone, so we drew everyone's attention to the dangers, the financial dangers of the bill itself, especially at a time when we saw that the public's financial awareness was insufficient and that these could also provide a breeding ground for decades of financial fraud that had recently torn up private people's assets and made families impossible. Well, to the same danger, it is dangerous, if you like, to draw attention to a financial establishment, or to say in the Legislative Committee that it does not mean and does not contain a safety net - if we consider it a financial product - that it adequately protects consumers against this financial product. It has been constantly said that, in this product range, and thus in this way of home creation, much stronger emphasis is required on consumer protection rules, as we can see that it is very much hairy to regulate the type of consumer groups that can be derived from building society founded in 1755, with which several people in Hungary have already burned themselves well for several decades. That is what must be avoided now, and that is the danger that people must be protected from. Well, this was also presented by the Jobbik Z. Kárpát Dániel two amendments, one of which is the most important of the OBA insurance itself, but, if not the OBA insurance, but the introduction of a separate guarantee fund, a separate financial fund, for which the counter-argument was to increase the possibility of using the facility. Nevertheless, this would be the only way if it would make the price of the whole product a little more expensive, but it would be the only way to truly secure it. It has also been said that internationalisation is a serious problem. We know that there is a need for the European Union, but there are many places beyond the rules that we would not be subject to our EU obligations or any other obligations. It was also a huge problem that this could have a distorting effect on competition. It has been said that the registration of mortgage rights and the use of additional lending opportunities will create some obstacles or undermine additional lending in real estate. Definitely there are a lot of thought - inspiring and dangerous situations. Perhaps one of the greatest dangers is that there is no plan, there is no developed defence system, a serious defence net that would protect consumers, for example, in a crisis such as the financial crisis in 2007-2008. We have also seen in the United Kingdom, where this example comes from, that the same type of construction, the same institution, has been so torn by the crisis that they were forced to merge, they have been forced to capital, if you will, to live on by the organisations. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Of course, we will put forward further counter-opinions, all of which have also been said in the Legislative Committee, and will now be spoken in plenary. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-17-28	Thank you very much, Congressman Luke. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 30-30 minutes, and the independent Members have 8 minutes in total. In the first round of speeches, the lead speakers will present the group's position within a 15-minute time frame per group of representatives. First, I give the floor to Mr Jenő Manninger, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-03-17-29	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, For the Fidesz fraction, financial and moral support for families is of paramount importance, as in the past. The success of a country is largely determined by economic performance, so it is reasonable to assume that families need a home and housing can be a sector of the national economy that will be able to grow permanently. The home creation programme, which started this year, builds on this strategy, serves both this dual goal - home creation and the growth of the national economy through the housing market. Let me tell you, too, because it is very important that the home creation programme already has several elements, the legal framework of which was established by the Parliament, so the Fidesz faction and the government have not just begun to deal with housing support, as the socialists claim, but it is part of a programme, the pillar of which we are presenting now. The first pillar was the family home-building discount, which was for a wide range of people who were about to start a family, young married with no children, single parents, adoptives, families with one child, two children, and families with three or more children. From now on it will be easier for them to build a new apartment or buy a used apartment, because the government provides substantial financial support and HUF 10 million under different conditions. The second pillar is the reduction of the VAT rate for housing sales from 27 to 5 percent, with which the government supports the creation of homes for families and aims to give impetus to housing constructions. The third pillar is the bill before us, which creates the national community of home creation as a new legal institution. Of course, we could talk about something else, because this could be a fourth pillar depending on the approach, since it could be interpreted as a separate pillar that the government has made significant progress and significantly supports housing creation by simplifying building licensing by introducing new procedures. Dear House, What, then, is the initial problem that justified the creation of the new pillar and that we had to face? Indeed, since 2004, the supply market for new-built apartments has dropped by 80 percent, including due to the introduction of former housing benefits. Compared to the surrounding countries, our country was indeed lagging behind because of the construction of new properties. Of course, the main reason for this is that before 2010, because of forced, unfunded foreign exchange withdrawals, very many have made early investments, and the main reason why - the Socialist MEP's speech that it had to be rejected was that it had to wait seven years for this programme, and it was someone's fault - that the conditions were not in place, because the first part of the last seven years had passed by the fact that citizens' money had to pay off unfunded foreign currency loans, and the issue of foreign currency loans had to be settled in a large part. This is also shown by the fact that there are currently savings in the country, but this has taken time, and in recent years, the financial conditions for housing support have also been created by citizens. Currently 8,000 new apartments are being built every year in our country, so the new program needs to increase this number. There is an opportunity to double this by using the different pillars. What solution can the state offer for this problem? In our view, it is necessary to give the opportunity and create the conditions for the establishment of so-called national home-building communities, which, as has been said here, would operate in the same way as the English building society, specifically for the financing of new housing constructions. In England, it has historical traditions, even on a city-by-city basis. Of course, it is necessary to take into account the successes and problems there, because, as is the case, the creation and operation of such a building community was not without any problems, but it basically brought success and created dozens of such housing communities; the homes that were built with this help can be viewed in the cities at present. The aim is to introduce a national home-building community as a new legal institution to create in the housing market a community based on Community pre-financing under guarantee rules where groups of natural persons, in order to achieve the common goal of access to housing, commit to the obligation of access to housing in a new form in a community, since savings in the previous housing savings programmes were financed only by renovations. The aim is also to make new apartments the property of Hungarian families by investing in savings made by private individuals to buy apartments. As a result, the conversion of household savings to the purchase of new-built apartments can ensure that they also serve to boost the housing market. [[10.30]] The legislation regulates a form of pre-saving in a closed system. Under the membership agreement, the member undertakes to pay an amount determined by him to NOK on a pre-defined basis. The NOK, depending on the amount placed by the saver, will advance the member's missing member's payment if the standard contract conditions are met. The great advantage of the scheme is that the member knows in advance what amount to obtain at the end of the savings phase. Thus, the members should not wait indefinitely for real estate, but should have an apartment within ten years. The order of this is partly based on a draw, partly as a result of a bid, but sooner or later, in the foreseeable future, all members of the community will have access to housing. Savings will have to be built and sold continuously. So we can say that, while the time to obtain property from the money put aside has so far been inaccessible, this time will now be visible. So it will be worth saving in this way. So I will say once again - especially my opposition colleagues who are also attacking this housing subsidy, because they could not implement any evaluable housing support system during the socialist period, only foreign exchange credit - that this housing method means that someone can get a flat before the savings period, and not only did they draw, so it is not as the desinformation started, that some people are being drawn, they get housing, but everyone gets an apartment the draw can only determine the order, and, of course, it is possible to buy the apartment in a different way, with a bid. So what we are talking about here is that the state specifically supports the collection of housing purchases and the purchase of housing as soon as possible, the savings of individuals on the one hand, and the state's support for building new homes not only at the end of the savings period, but also from the start. NOK is a legal person, which is created by registration by the Hungarian National Bank as a control authority. The community is operated by the organizer, who manages the payment of members and uses them exclusively for the purchase of housing. In the case of NOK, it is legitimate to ask why we do not support the housing savings banks. In this context, we believe that housing savings banks are important, but the savings collected in the state-funded housing savings banks currently operating were mostly used for renovation, modernisation and expansion. The state will continue to support this form. However, as a new tool with the national home creation community, we would like to encourage the construction of new homes so as to ensure that customers can create a new home from savings in the foreseeable future. Thus, it is possible to base the long-term, stable operation of the combined wealth that is specialized in housing saving activities. In view of the fact that it is a community, we must ensure that in this community there is no possibility that someone will not pay and that it will damage the others. The bill therefore protects members who contribute to the community. The proposal lays down the most important rules for the contract between the Community and the member and the elements that the general terms and conditions should contain. Like other countries, the bill provides support for house savers. The grant would be 30% of the deposit, but a maximum of HUF 25,000 per month. For the purposes of the aid, the scope of the housing uses considered may be used only for the purchase of new dwellings. State support for housing savings banks, as has been done, will continue to be guaranteed, with a 30% rate per person, up to a maximum of HUF 72 thousand per year. Dear House, If you agree with the aim of giving new housing to Hungarian families from their savings as soon as possible, and the housing market should also start to recover, please support this proposal. With this new form, the government and Parliament, if they vote in favour, will allow the housing market to expand with further support from housing support, and more and more housing will be built. Contrary to the increase in housing in the period of the socialists, it is based on real savings, it develops a new form and, of course, complements the other pillars, and together it can result in growth in the housing market, housing support and access to new housing for families. I therefore ask that you support this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-03-17-30	Thank you, Congressman Manninger. I now give the floor to Mr László Szakács, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2016-03-17-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, I am a little sorry that Minister Antal Rogán has urgent, urgent business to attend to this debate. [[Dr. László Varga: He escaped.]] I think this debate will be instructive. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You should wait for the lecture.]] We will say that, in our view, the swift introduction of this personalized law, which is basically for the role of the pilot, but dressed in such a family-help robe, is not for the benefit of the families, it is not for the benefit of the Hungarian people, it is for the sake of the construction industry, but for the sake of a well-defined interest group, which is also in the interests of its leader. We started by thinking about why we have to accept this in 24 hours. If this legislation could remedy such a strategic error as the 20 percent reduction in construction... I will mark the source, I heard from your fellow Members at the TAB meeting yesterday, Mr Secretary of State, the performance of the construction industry has decreased by 20 percent. Otherwise, the performance of the Hungarian construction industry and the fulfilment of the Hungarian economy in this way, as well as the housing policy, were insulted at a level that would have been in the honor of any of my fellow opposition representatives. We don't have as much data as you do, you must be much more prepared. Of course, there are two questions as to why they won't finish the sentence when they've started. One: the only way to finish this sentence is that if the state of construction is so poor, which is of strategic importance for the national economy, then why not call for the Minister to resign. He's doing something really wrong. If the housing situation is so bad that even the war-torn Ukraine is doing much better than Hungary is doing, then we believe that the policy needs to be changed and that the Minister's person is likely to have to be changed. One more question, of course. Last month alone, you decided to spend HUF 36 billion to build stadiums at government level. Isn't that built by the construction industry, Mr. Secretary? Who's building it? Who builds them if not construction? Where will that performance be? Where does performance in the real economy come true? You got 'em there, you got 'em all tagged up, which one's gonna run, which isn't? Which company can build, which can't? [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Yes, of course.]] Then we moved on to thinking. What we are talking about here is that you are referring to the consumer groups on which data must be provided by the secure organizer, the reliable organizer, to the Consumer Protection Authority. We are talking about consumer groups that you have suspended the creation of by amending the Consumer Protection Act in 2012 for an indefinite period of time to examine the social impact of those groups, because everyone has heard only their bad reputation for these consumer groups. Then, after social opinion, social opinions were collected by you, probably correctly, on 1 January 2014 it was forbidden if the Secretary of State, the Consumer Protection Act, wanted to look it up 16. In its section, such groups of consumers were prohibited. Compared to this, this legislation has two foundations, two important pillars: one is the existing consumer group and the other is the secure organizer itself. Let's see who the secure organizer is: the secure organizer who is authorized by the Hungarian National Bank to do this kind of activity. Tell me behind me that this is a joke. I couldn't have said it better myself. It shall cooperate with the Consumer Protection Authority and either submit to the Consumer Protection Authority the data it has already requested or have provided such data to the Consumer Protection Authority in the last two years. [[10.40]] But that is not enough, because we had to narrow it down even further, and the only other secure organizer can be the one who, in addition to authorising him to do so with the permission of the National Bank of Hungary, in addition to fulfilling his obligation to report to such a group of consumers in cooperation with the Authority, sold at least two years earlier a thousand of these apartments in this form. That narrows it down. There are seven companies in Hungary today that provide data to the Consumer Protection Authority for a consumer group that was established before 2012. But only two of these seven were able to sell a thousand apartments. They narrowed it down until there were only two companies left in Hungary, and let us see a miracle, the same owner of these two companies! [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: Wow! How is that possible? Wow.]] His name is Zoltán Nyéki. He could be an excellent businessman. [[Gábor István Bellozó: Is he really that brazen? The president's ringing the bell.]] I don't know him. But then we did a little research on these companies. In order to disperse the charm of the novelty, I must say that this is nothing new, Mr. Secretary, you stole this idea! It's Zoltán Nyéki's old dream that's coming true now, raising this old dream to law. This dream is so old that on May 8, 2001, which was a Tuesday, he told the Index newspaper about it. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: How interesting!]] He said that we would like to make sure that those who are trying to solve their housing situation by using the benefits of the group's purchasing form as a way of saving their housing, their savings for the purchase of real estate should be considered as house savings, so that the state aid already available in other forms could be allocated to the real estate projects - said Zoltán Nyéki, Poligrupo Kft. Managing Director, 8 May 2001. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Shame! Z. Carpathian Daniel: Wow, how embarrassing!]] It's an old dream that has now become a reality. It's true... [[Dániel Z. Karpát is arguing with the pro-government representatives who are sitting against him. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2016-03-17-32	Don't yell, dear congressman.
u2016-03-17-33	...that this company was not always able to operate properly, because in 2006 the Hungarian Competition Authority was fined HUF 10 million. [[A voice from the ranks of the MSZP: Wow!]] At its meeting held on 23 March 2006, this company was struck by the fact that it made itself appear to be offering a financial service. It's spookily similar, by the way, as if offering financial services, I'd like to add another slogan: more than a bank. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] It was found that they should punish this company because they give it the false impression that it is a financial service, but while, in the case of commercial banks, it is necessary to start paying off the loan after the amount has been lent, it can obtain anything from this company after the start of monthly payments made by the consumer, up to 150 months later. You'll have to pay it back first, Mr. Secretary, and then maybe this man will have something. That's why this company has been punished, but you're going to bring it to law. I'm not gonna agree to bidding, lottery, how to manipulate these things. Yesterday, Secretary of State Répássy... - sorry, former Secretary of State, Róbert Répássy warned us of good intentions and good faith. Would you excuse me if I told you that the Secretary of State asked a little too much? But I'm gonna try, and I'm gonna say that obviously there will be no manipulation in the bidding procedures and obviously in the draw, let's say that. Even so, all this is good, this draw and the bid is that you support those who really don't need it; you support those who can pay 83 thousand forints a month in advance, for ten years in advance, they can pay at least 83 thousand forints each month, with which the Hungarian state will add 300 thousand at the end of the year. This means that in 12 months the consumer will pay a million forints, the Hungarian state will add 300 thousand forints at the end. In other words, you support people who don't need it. Apart from the fact that both private people's money and budget support, which could be 300,000 forints a year, are being pushed into the well-identified company Poligrupo and the company Carion, which can be identified, they realize a 15-year-old dream, so you give one guarantee. They don't give us the guarantee that whoever put their money in here will get the apartment, they say they can take part in the lottery. They're not saying that the man who put his money in here would know his money was safe because they said Matolcsy would be watching. I think this is what the most feared in Hungary today is that Matolcsy MNB President will protect them, who, under his nose, under the close supervision of the Quaestor case, has taken 220 billion forints out of here, so far the victims, if they have received a forint, are either from the BEVA or come from the budget, or come from anywhere, but certainly not from the Quaestor fortune, they must entrust themselves to that person. We consider the warranty elements to be very small. Personalised regulation, which has been shifted over 24 hours in one day, is not the rule of law, it is not parliamentarism, it is quite simply the good morals, it is the morals that are horribly opposed. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Shame!]] Pushing a company over in one day and recapitalizing a company in one day to a man who told you what he wanted to do 15 years ago... and I'm guessing your minister got a job to give people something big, something good, and what comes out is, once again, people's money goes to someone, can be pinned down, public money goes to someone, they don't give a guarantee, they drive people into an infinitely dangerous operation, instead of assessing the real situation, and they're trying to find a real solution. There are hundreds, thousands of empty apartments in the south of the country, Mr. Secretary of State. [[Interview from the ranks of MSZP: Hundreds of thousands!]] Hundreds, thousands! [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Hundreds of thousands!]] In the city in which I live, 1,500 out of 11 500 households are empty because people left there in the hope of a better life. Yeah, these are used apartments. Why don't you do that when it comes to housing policy? Why don't you just focus on what happens to these apartments? Why don't you just focus on letting these people come home and live in their own apartment again? And not to repeat the whole thing again, but to sum it up, they're using a consumer group whose character was banned by you in 2014. Exclusive companies, Carion Zrt. and Poligrupo Zrt. the only ones in Hungary today that meet the legal criteria that you have developed very carefully to make only one company fit for this. There is nothing new about it, Mr. Secretary of State, because 15 years ago, the leaders of these companies have already said so. I'll tell you something else: we former city leaders were approached at the time. We drove them away because it wasn't a good idea. [[10.50]] The advice they gave us wasn't good, so we told them to leave. The only guarantee is that Matolcsy will be careful not to get hurt. I don't think that's gonna calm us down yet. We would very much like to, Mr Secretary, if, not always for the sake of a company, but sometimes, as my fellow Member Manninger has said, there are laws for the benefit of families. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-03-17-34	Thank you, Congressman Cook. I now give the floor to Congressman István Hollik, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2016-03-17-35	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, First, it is worth examining what led the government to present this bill to us. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: The cook just told me!]] The aim of the Fidesz-KDNP - and I think this is the root of this regulation, this new law - was to bring about a sustainable demographic change in the country, because we see that unfortunately Hungary is running out. We also see from international examples that a successful, sustainable demographic change can only be achieved through a complex family support system. As the budget allowed, the government continuously introduced the elements of this complex family support system. He started with the family tax reduction, which - it can be said - has left over a thousand billion forints with families in six years. But we see that to encourage childbearing, it is worth helping the employment of mothers who want to return to the labour market after having children. The government therefore made every effort to support flexible forms of employment, and by introducing the child extra, it eliminated the unfair situation that a mother had to decide whether to receive or work on family support, lawn. This kid is available at the same time as extras, and a mother can work while she's getting her weed. The third pillar of this complex family support system is the home creation programme, which also has several elements. My fellow Member Manninger has already mentioned the reduction in the VAT on the new apartment, the renewal of the system previously called soccer; this is the CSOK. This was done in two steps, as Minister Rogán pointed out, first introduced in mid-year last year and then expanded at the end of this year. As a result, the three children can receive up to HUF 10 million in grants, and they can also take out another HUF 10 million in interest-supported loans. This is, therefore, the government's aim, and this is another element of the national home-building community. Listening to opposition representatives, it is also worth seeing what the opposition represents. What I see is that our MSZP fellow Members are likely to come from themselves when they accuse Fidesz-KDNP and the government of making rules for friends. And I'm telling you, the MSZ-SZ-SZ-government was only driven by the fact that it was going to give mates tax forints. Dear Members of the MSZP, the support of the national home-building community is not for private businesses, it is for the Hungarian people who want to save money in this way, in this form. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Don't be ridiculous. Beware, for your words are kept in the record.]] I would also like to say that between 1998 and 2002, the first Orbán government also launched a home-building programme. If my fellow socialists criticize very strongly, it is worth looking back at what they have put down on the table and how they have continued the family support and home creation programme of the first Orbán government. I'd like to read you two quotes. One of them comes from Péter Medgyessy, who said that the MSZP doesn't want to eliminate anything, doesn't want to take anything away from people, but wants to expand the preferential housing loans further. In 2003, Zoltán Gál said that anyone who has taken out a loan will continue to be indebted to the extent and under the conditions laid down there and to the extent and under which they will receive State aid. That was 2002. And what has become of reality under your government? On the one hand, they reduced it, and then they dissipated the Socpol. It was you who doubled the tax on housing, and during your time, the number of new housing constructions began to fall. The State interest-supported credit system created by the first Orbán government has been abolished. And the most symbolic case of your government is Ferenc Gyurcsány's nesting program, which seemed to work on paper, but in reality it failed badly. The failure of the nesting programme is most plastically illustrated by the situation at the Avas settlement in Miskolc, as this package of measures has resulted in unblessed conditions in the county seat in Borsod in a few years. This is probably confirmed by our recently departed fellow Member Varga. This failed nesting program offered the opportunity to move families into more than 130 housing estates in Miskolc with a series of infringements for profit. The installed families used the stairwells as toilets and landfills, but much more serious, they did not pay the rent and the common cost. The residents turned to the then MSZP mayor of Miskolc, who interpelled the government on this issue. As a result, the nesting program has been shut down, we can say that it has failed. So what happened to the nesting program? A big failure and a gigantic criminal case. Although the nesting programme was terminated, it continued as a criminal case, since the infringements became a criminal case, which began in 2012 and came to its new stop in December 2015 by declaring the non-final sentences imposed on 290 defendants. The most serious punishment was a seven-year sentence and a 26 million forints confiscation. So this is the Socialists' home-building programme, which can be said to have clearly failed. The result was that Hungarian people were forced into foreign exchange lending. It was you who failed to inform Hungarian people about the risks of foreign exchange lending, and as a result, the Hungarian government had to do everything in its power to help foreign exchange lenders out of this state between 2010-14. Once again, I would like to say to my socialist fellow Members that, over the past four years, the government has cleaned up the debris that you have left here in terms of home creation by helping foreign exchange creditors. It is also worth looking at Jobbik's position on home creation, which is a little more constructive than the MSZP's. But this could also be a contentious debate. Jobbik's youth department recently suggested that the government cancel the family home-building discount and instead set up a rental-building program. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's a lie!]] My dear fellow Member, this is not a lie, and I will send you the link and please read the proposal from your own youth department. This could be a contentious debate. The Fidesz government is on the side of giving property to Hungarian families, Hungarian families with young children, and not forcing them into apartments. I'd like to respond briefly to the accusations of the MSZP. Before they fall too much in love with their own conspiracy theory, and before they begin to say that it was written out for a group of companies, I would like to draw the attention of my socialist fellow Members, the legislation gives us the opportunity to introduce a new actor. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Tell me how.]] I am convinced, by the way, that in years' time - two years must pass - new players will surely enter the market. [[11.00]] The point is that there is going to be competition here, and I think that is right. I think that this argument also does not hold up, and neither is the fact that they are talking about consumer groups, because we would like to say that the national home-building community is not a consumer group. But let us look at exactly what this regulation is about. This is based on a Community financing model, as my fellow Members have referred to it, taking an English example that natural persons wishing to buy a new housing can join a community. The community is operated by an organizer, who manages the payment of the members of the community, and can only use these payments for the purchase of new apartments. So once again, I would like to say to my fellow socialists, the state does not support private businesses, but supports Hungarian people who want to save money in this community. The Community is a specific wealth with a separate legal status, which is acquired by registration by the MNB. The community does not have an independent organisation, the community functions and its representation vis-à-vis third parties is also ensured by the organizer. This organizer is a regulated market operator operating in a private limited company form. The organizer can start his activities after obtaining the MNB's authorisation and operate under continuous MNB supervision. I believe, by the way, that the guarantees that are now included in this legislation are that own funds, which are intended to prevent members who may enter this community but are otherwise not paying, from distorting the functioning of the community... - that is why there is a need for 3 per cent own funds and for enhanced enforcement of mortgage law to ensure that, if some members of the community fail to fulfil their obligations, the mortgage rights they already own can be enforced. The first step of the community is that the organizer recruits the members who wish to buy the apartment with an advertisement after obtaining the MNB's permission. The organizer concludes a preliminary agreement with the members, and then, after concluding an agreement with a sufficient number of members, announces this fact to the MNB. Members shall start to collect 20% of their own contribution to the purchase of residential property with their regular payments, in addition to which they may make additional savings. If the member is able to fulfil the part of himself needed to buy the apartment and the organizer selects by lot or bid a member who is entitled to purchase residential property, or if he otherwise has sufficient resources to buy the apartment, the community shall make an advance payment to the member in order to settle the purchase price and establish a mortgage on the residential property to be purchased. The transparency and security of the functioning of the community is guaranteed by the strong supervisory powers and safeguards of the MNB, I believe. The proposal includes, once again, the member, not the private enterprise, but the maximum value of the State aid due to the member, which is 30 per cent of the amount of the annual payment, but no more than 300 thousand forints. The detailed rules for State aid will be laid down in a government decree. I believe that the bill before us serves two purposes. On the one hand, it can encourage family support and childbearing and provide families with children with own property. The fact that the national home-building community actually generates new housing every year helps the construction industry and the national economy. To sum up, it can therefore be said that the home creation programme contributes to the growth of the Hungarian economy and to job creation, in addition to the possibility of making homes cheaper. With the introduction of the programme, we can conclude a period of time marked by a low number of foreign currency loans, debt and new housing constructions. This was the most serious legacy of the former socialist governments. The new Hungarian home creation scheme can also be an example for other EU countries, and the Hungarian government aims to provide all Hungarian people, all Hungarian families, with their own apartments as cheaply as possible. Our position is that without strong and successful families there is no strong and successful country, so the government wants to reverse the negative demographic processes not with immigration, but with the support of Hungarian families. Therefore, KDNP supports this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-17-36	Thank you very much, Congressman István Hollik. I now give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. You have the floor.
u2016-03-17-37	Mr President, Dear House, We always promise here at Jobbik's benches that, with calm professional arguments, we will tear apart the madness that you are presenting to us. Two or three of these are very... [[János Pócs intervenes.]] He's not in Walking Dead. He's in the nation's church. Press the button if you have something to say. So we always vow to remain calm and then stand up, Congressman Hollik, and after the outrageous justification, he will perform a stand-up that is quite simply outrageous. Lying as a Christian Democrat in the morning is outrageous in itself, but account for this to your fellow party. [[Deterioration in opposition benches. Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]] Do we have to say, is it absolutely amazing that you're trying to put in our mouth that we didn't support any of the elements of the home-building package? ! You're just lying. He's a regular liar, he's a good liar. Listen to what I'm saying, don't call me, I'll tell you again. [[Moore in the pro-government benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] We must say that Jobbik would not only support the system of home-building preferences but also support its expansion. That is what we are proposing now, but on the other hand, you are talking about a sustainable demographic development, a turnaround, and we could agree on this common goal, by the way. We have to say that if the wonderful worldview you outlined is completed at the maximum level, let us talk about the CSOK for two thoughts, so if the market is available by the end of 2017, by early 2018 all 6 thousand, I say once again, six thousand new-built or at least 70-80 percent ready-made real estates are taken up to this form of support, and according to the very optimistic scenario, for every such family there is another Hungarian child, we can still talk about 6,000 live births in two-year terms, that would be a wonderful thing. Let us not argue if this very optimistic scenario result were to be achieved, but in two years the 6 thousand would still only result in improvement within the statistical margin of error, and we would be very happy to do so. Just don't say anything bigger. Let us say that, yes, you are trying to make progress within the statistical margin of error, and we will support you in this regard with regard to the family support system, with regard to the home creation programme, even if we propose additional elements. But don't lie to us that we would argue about these attempts, even if, for the time being, we are not trying to get through, but just trying, we are supporting initiatives in the right direction. That's why I don't understand why they're putting a consumer group thing in front of us, something we don't say it is. Well, in your justification, under the conditions described, how to become the organizer of this state-lawed pontoon game, there are two serious conditions. One is that the data subject is involved in the construction or sale of thousands of real estate, which he can show for the past. I'd leave it to guessing, it's not gonna be hard to figure out. The other condition is at least as interesting as the obligation to provide information required by the Consumer Group Act for the last two years in the Consumer Protection Authority database. And if we look at this database, what do we find? Seven companies: in four forced cancellations, one insecure background and two from the same ownership circle, presumably. That's the situation where we don't have to explain ourselves. I hope that, Mr Secretary of State, you will be able to give satisfactory answers to this instead of Minister. I myself have certain doubts about this, but please try, because Skandalum is this bill. Since 2010, I thought I would be able to accept them more calmly. I have to say, coming out, I'm a gram less relaxed than I was in 2010, when you're putting in some kind of outrageous filth, because it's the economic principles, the market economy, it rapes everything. They are bringing in a system that they were, by the way, quite rightly, partially banned in 2014, the system where I first repay, and then either have something or not; the system where you are playing with people's payments in a state legal way, and the intermediary company disappears, then what happens. What guarantees do they give people? [[11.10]] Surveillance of the MNB, watch-and- watch-out trash? Because the MNB can't replace anyone. We also see that it is essentially possible to sue. This is your defense mechanism in this case, if the intermediary company falls, it will be possible to sue, because it has to be signed that the OBA will not take responsibility either. So you can see that a system has been brought here without a bulge, which, in the case of mass falls, can easily lead to a Quaestor II, which is unacceptable in Hungary. And we also need to see that, while this MNB oversight does not constitute a failure at all, you intend to create the various detailed rules in a later government decree, to describe them, and expect us to sign a blank cheque in order that, of course, we trust you, and then you will integrate these defensive mechanisms into the system in a fair way. And there are some reasons we can agree on. In the fact that the socioliberal governments destroyed the Hungarian economy, destroyed part of the construction sector, they allowed foreign currency lending to bite after you actually allowed unilateral contractual amendments in 2001 in a package. This part of the justification checks out. The problem is that it's been six years since then, so now we have to talk about the last six years, not just the last eight years. The other half of the problem is that their so-called currency-credited settlement will actually be included in the history books as part of a financial emergency age. Free robbery was legalized, these loans were forinted at the market rate instead of the HUF 165-170 admission rate. The difference between the two exchange rates was swallowed by people and credited to the banks as a kind of profit. This is outrageous! Therefore, what you have put before us is not expected at all to increase the volume of new-built property in a measurable way in the coming years. You might want to think about the fact that in Hungary 41-42 thousand new-built properties should be created every year, recovering only in order to replace the property stock every hundred years, and this is not a very high requirement in a country that normally operates. On the other hand, how to slip from 8500 to 7500, and how to produce only a fraction of this every year, is no longer a crime of socialist governments, this is clearly a symptom of the economic policy failure of the last 6 years. And we also need to see that there are half a million empty apartments and real estate in Hungary. We see, we know that all of these would not be withdrawn into Hungarian life, but it is also clear that tens of thousands of them, according to optimistic estimates, could be returned up to 80-90 thousand after proper renovation and modernisation. We are thinking of those where renovation would not be more expensive than the construction of a newly built apartment. But we also need to see that there are many other ways to go. On what Congressman Hollik lied about, it was precisely that Jobbik, although it supports the extension of the home creation package, proposes, in addition - not instead, plus - a publicly supported housing program where, by the mandate of the Parliament, we could support, through a common national minimum, the creation of a significantly cheaper mass of tenements for young people, middle-aged people or older people who are unable to think in a new-built apartment today. And if the congressman looks at the first press reports, then in the case of the new CSOK, i.e. in the case of 10 plus 10, it seems that the majority of those who are looking at 90 percent are still interested in the properties used, not necessarily thinking or thinking about the new ones. Therefore, it would be logical for me to have a meaningful professional debate on how to open up to the real estate renovations, the used real estate openings and the young people who want to stay in Hungary with a package that not only thinks about new builders but I would like to say that Jobbik imagines these two together; so we need new builders. We supported your package in every case if it was forward-looking and sensible. This is how we will act in the near future, regardless of the personal or professional disputes that arise between us, because this is not about personal injury, it is about national interests. Jobbik's home-building and rental-building program would also be about the creation of rentable apartments where half and a third of the market price could be used to establish a lease, so it would not be at the runaway rent prices in Budapest. Those young Hungarians who wish to migrate from the country can stay here, because after examining the average payment according to the KSH, they realize that they may not be able to get a single home on their own in 20 years. A tenant-building program would be an amazing help, and if we can keep these young people at home, if we can create the living space, the place where they can stay, where the children they desire can come into being, well, it will start to lead to the slowing down of demographic low-flying. And if this slowing down becomes a decade-old, then perhaps we can achieve a sustainable state. The reason why I also wish to bring myself to restraint in this regard is because no one in Europe has yet succeeded in achieving this turn of population. So Hungary must now succeed in an experiment that is unprecedented. So there are no positive examples in front of us that someone, say from 1,34 or 1,43, has been able to exercise the average number of live births per family or mother. And we have to say that Hungary wants to take on an unprecedented experiment now, and that would require a national minimum. Thus, the average number of children per woman, a Hungarian woman, should be torn down in some way to 2.2. This will be a decades-old task, and quite simply such a tool is not only perfect for a turnaround, but also for achieving sustainable demographic development and turnaround in itself. It would be different in packages. This is why we do not understand why, in the context of these cosmetic, but once again, these proposals containing brazen elements do not support the amendment which would do one thing: create a separate guarantee fund and a financial guarantee for those concerned in the event that the intermediary company falls in if external market conditions are ringing up, so if any financial disaster occurs that simply justifies it. You're saying it would make the system more expensive. We have seen that there is nothing more expensive than maintaining the position of those who have suffered foreign exchange credit, so that hundreds of families should be evicted in Hungary again this year because you have not extended the moratorium on eviction. This is the most expensive if you become a Hungarian taxpayer, a worker, a person with a broken family, a person who loses his job, who may be in need of a social system. That should therefore be avoided. Therefore, we do not understand why it is important for you to put in the position of a few privileged companies in the Consumer Protection Authority database, who can then collect a fee. This is a very important motivational factor, and indeed they will not use state aid, but they will have access to state aid, and then obviously, with different practices, they can further increase their own revenues. Once again, I would like to emphasise that those affected pay first, and then either receive a discount or not. So after six years of two-thirds, and then almost two-thirds of the government, I simply find it embarrassing if, in terms of a home creation programme, this government comes before us with a draw or a bid, so that it uses these words at all in a proposal such as a bid, so it tries to put people in a position on such a path, when it is necessary to be precisely predictable, in a decade-long perspective foreseeable conditions, but in the case of the most optimistic scenario, on average, after 12-14 years, someone could gain access to a new-built property that should not be underestimated. This would also be very good, but it is not likely to become a mass level, and it is bleeding from so many consumer wounds that it makes this system very, very dangerous. And what is crying out - once again - for an explanation - is the amazing conclusion that support can be taken on by refugees and protected. This is before us and justifies it after Mr Hollik rightly said that a demographic change is needed, not by immigration, but by immigrants. We agree on that perfectly. Then why does it say that support can be taken up by refugees and protected? Why do you have any justifications like that? Obviously, you will say that it is a requirement of the European Union not to exclude anyone - net nonsense! There is no such EU requirement, or, if there is, we ask for a reference to help us out. Even if there were, you should not accept similar terms at such critical times, but rather box them in Brussels if you like, but there is no European Union expectation, there should not be any global, any expectation that the mass of Hungarian taxpayers, a similar mass of benefits are migrants, received, protected, refugees, no matter what category we are talking about, because in Hungary these burning problems - not only demographic but also economic burning problems - can be solved on their own initiative, and, yes, we agree that the demographic turn must not be achieved by immigration and immigration, conscious population exchange or by the tolerance of an invasion, but by clearly restoring the fallen age tree. So we expect you to take Parliament seriously, to take the work here seriously, not to throw one of these at us in 24 hours, where you want to place Hungarians in a bidding position for home creation, where you would also give refugees a lot of relief, which is bleeding from a thousand wounds in terms of consumer protection, but to continue a fair professional debate on a public-based housing and home creation program, putting in position tens of thousands of young Hungarians. If this does not happen, then we cannot find a cure for Hungary's biggest problem, which is the tragic loss of population. Thank you for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]] [[11.20]]
u2016-03-17-38	Thank you very much, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. I give the floor to Mr István Ikotity, the mayor of the political group.
u2016-03-17-39	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, This 37-page bill was submitted yesterday by the Minister of the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office, and we are voting on it today. The frivolity of the proposal is not only shown by the fact that they want to push it through Parliament in an exceptional procedure, in one day, but also by the fact that it was not submitted by the NGM responsible for the area, or perhaps by the EMMI responsible for home creation. Antal Rogán's recently set up propaganda industry notes the proposal, which means we do not have much to expect from him. Antal Rogán put in the idea of national home-building communities in January, then he said that the proposal would be submitted to Parliament in mid-January, then there will be a month of social debate, and we will vote on it in mid-March. Compared to this, we now see that there has been no social debate, that the preparation took place in the background, and now, in mid-March, they want to bring down the parliamentary stage in one day. Again, this confirms the suspicion that this is about filling your own pockets. The main point of the draft is that the member joining the national home-building community for housing purchases undertakes to pay an amount determined by him on a predefined basis. The NOK, depending on the amount placed by the saver, will advance the missing member's payment free of interest to the member selected by the bid or draw. When determining the order of the home buyers, the first place to buy an apartment is the first place to buy an apartment with the highest self-esteem, and only in the case of an equal rate of deposit will the possibility of making a draw. The national home-building community is practically a consumer group, which has, by the way, been banned by the law since 2012. The definition of this is one-on-one for NOK - and I quote: "The members of the consumer group, you might say, lend each other, regularly pay a certain amount of money, and then purchase the product, car, apartment, and so on from the savings that they collect for the lucky member. Whether a member is lucky or not, he must continue to pay his specified repayment until all members of the group have access to the goods or services he wishes to obtain. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The operation of consumer clubs, known as the consumer group, aimed at the unscrupulous elimination of the most vulnerable. One of the most widespread frauds since the change of regime is linked to consumer groups, which cheated the most vulnerable layers of misleading advertising. They promised cheap loans to people who never saw their deposit again. The Hungarian Competition Authority also stated that companies organising consumer groups are using consumers' indiscretions. Typically, consumers targeted by advertisements have been exposed to financial difficulties, income and age, and have been excluded from bank lending. While Marcell Biró, State Secretary of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister, said at the committee meeting that this is not a consumer group or a pyramid game, it is not known what he is basing this statement on, since it is evidence in itself that he has been required to comply with his obligations under consumer group legislation to the Consumer Protection Authority for at least two years before the application for recognition of a private public limited company as an organiser. However, if the group of consumers is NOK, there is no guarantee of abuse either in the law. It is not possible to see what will ensure the money of depositors, what will be the guarantee against abuse to preserve property. So far, there has been only bad experience with consumer groups, not knowing how this would change for NOK, what would make consumers more protected. As the LMP pointed out earlier, the government should rather have worked to develop rules that make it impossible for consumer groups to cheat. It is also a question of how well the goal the government has set the new legal institution will be able to meet. The aim, however, is to boost construction, to provide housing to designers, with a new financing model. NOK can also be seen as a state-organized housing savings bank, supported by billions of taxpayers hoping to be more attractive than existing market-based cash registers, which the state also supports, deposits up to HUF 60,000 a year. In the case of NOK, the state aid for payments amounts to 30% of the total amount, but to a maximum of HUF 25 thousand. The question is, what will attract the masses, what will make it more attractive than the savings banks. You cannot see the benefits of this, so it is more predictable that the expected impact will lag behind in the recovery of the housing industry. Obviously, the government feels that this is where the noose is. The urgency is also explained by the decline in the housing market, with a reduction of 20 per cent per year. They use everything, they try everything, just to give the economy a boost after the EU spends money. Moreover, the CSOK also focussed on high-income, housing-equipped families with multiple children, as with many other measures, not housing problems. This is also the case with NOK: the order of the home buyers is primarily determined by the bid, who has the highest self-power, the first to get a flat. Once again, people are placed in the position of those who have the money in cash; those who live in small wages and pay are once again at a disadvantage, they will be in the back row, and they will have to wait 10-15 years to get an apartment. Finally, this is similar to the casino business, in which a state-renowned organizer is required to lead such a community. We do not believe that there is anyone in Hungary today who would trust his money to some of the friends that Antal Rogán chose and claims to be a reliable man. Thank you for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of LMP and Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-17-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Further speeches by Members are possible in the remaining timeframes. These may be monitored on the seat-room table. First I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing, first I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Vantara, Fidesz.
u2016-03-17-41	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The aim of the bill before us is to build as many newly built apartments or houses as possible, with emphasis on new constructions, as unfortunately the supply market for newly built apartments has fallen by 80% since 2004, as has been said several times today. One of the reasons for this is that, as the first measure of the Socialist Government, which entered into force in 2002, it abolished the incentives to create homes, kept interest rates high, and, at the same time, encouraged people towards foreign exchange loans. Needless to say, we all know how much damage has been done to people, families have fallen apart, thousands have been auctioned off their houses, and even banks have been forced to write down huge losses because of the loans that have fallen. However, thanks to the government's policy, often unorthodox solutions, we can say that everything that currency lending meant is behind our backs, and now no one has to worry about how the forint's exchange rate develops at the beginning of the month. Ladies and gentlemen, I only wanted to say this so that it was clear to everyone where we started and under what circumstances the government took over the country in 2010. Now, in addition to the positive results of finance and the growing economy, it is possible to launch again a programme to help people get housing. At present, some 8,000 apartments are being built, and the government is determined to double this number. As a first measure, the government reduced the VAT rate for housing construction from 27 to 5 percent, which in itself has a significant impact on the creation of homes for families and can boost housing. [[11.30]] In the second step, the lump sum non-refundable housing allowance already mentioned many times, introduced from 1 July 2015, CSOK, the family home-building allowance made it even more favourable, as of 1 January 16, significant financial support for the construction of a new flat or the purchase of a new flat. In addition, the credit institution loan for the construction and purchase of a new apartment for families with three or more children was linked to a maximum of HUF 10 million and a 3-percent support for home creation. Ladies and gentlemen, We cannot go without saying that the statements of left-wing parties have made it clear that if it were up to them, they would not support families in creating homes, they would abolish the home creation programme. In addition, over the short period so far, the three elements have been submitted with 1100 applications for a new family home discount, CSOK for banks, and in particular for used apartments, according to the information provided by credit institutions. The banks expect the number of claims to jump in the second half of the year after the start of construction of new apartments. Yesterday, a bill on national home-building communities was presented, which can be understood as the third pillar of the home-creation programme. The aim of setting up national home-building communities is to encourage the use of new housing and the construction of new property through retail savings. Let us stop here for a moment, because during this morning's debate, it was said that people do not have the money for this. I would like to subpoena only one figure: In 2015, the household savings increased by HUF 2600 billion. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP. Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Have a good laugh. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You shouldn't say such things!]] This means that people want to solve the housing issue first. This means that this amount of money is available if the residents and citizens are planning to use it for this purpose. House savings also play a very important role. This is also true and has been said during the debate this morning. They have a serious impact on real estate markets, but 95 percent of the purchases from the housing register have been made in the form of used housing or renovations. Thus, the role of the housing savings bank to build new real estate in the country is not fulfilled. I believe that the increase in GDP, mentioned more than eight times more, is a useful addition to the establishment of home-building communities even in the case of the construction of new homes. The transparency and security of the operation of national home-building communities are guaranteed by strict legal conditions and strong MNB supervisory powers. The organizer may be a private limited company, as has already been mentioned several times this morning, which meets the legal requirements and is authorised by the National Bank. Let's stop here for a second. I do not know if all my opposition fellow Members have noticed that this is voluntary, not mandatory, when reading the law and justification. To make use of it, the community, the community of citizens, can view the national home creation community as a voluntary and an opportunity. If you like it and understand it, it is an extension of access to the financial resources that can be used to solve the housing issue, the creation of a home. I would like to emphasise once again that, despite the suggestions and all of this, this construction is voluntary and is based on the free initiative of citizens. I know this sounds incredible, but that's how it sounds, and that's the spirit of the law. I therefore believe that, on the basis of what has been said above, all the elements of these housing policy objectives, including the national home-building community, which will benefit both the people who want home and the construction industry, so I ask you to support the proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-17-42	Thank you, Congressman Vantara. Dear Parliament, Speaking in advance, Mr Gergely Bárándy, MSZP. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-03-17-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I was going to tell you something else, but I have to respond in a few words to the otherwise rather amazing points that Hollik and my fellow Member Vantara have made over the last few minutes. So, I was thinking that out of 199 Members, the most recent seats are for Congressman Hollik, but some Members have not been able to grow skin as thick as it has been for Congressman Hollik in a very short time, perhaps even thicker than a rhinoceros in a decade or two. The things you've told me are an amazing lie. [[Dr. Répássy, Robert: Talk about the person against whom you must prosecute.]] No prosecution can be carried out [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Mr Répássy, my fellow Member, against a Member of Parliament, even though he is not [[Dr. Robert Répássy: Sitting next to you!]] If you don't like what I'm saying, because everyone in this House is saying what they want to say - you'll obviously be able to answer it - and that's why such a procedure cannot be initiated. However, it is telling that opposition representatives are threatened with criminal proceedings here by pro-government representatives by shouting at them; I think that this is a very nice sign of Hungarian relations. But let's get down to what it was all about. Congressman Hollik says that the government is making a successful demographic shift. In this sentence, one would laugh in itself if the Hungarian situation were not terribly sad today. But really, what is a successful demographic change? It is that they have pursued a policy where 5-10 percent of the country's population no longer imagines prosperity in Hungary, but does work abroad, not with the intention of returning, but without it. And let me add that these people are the first of our most talented young people. Is this the successful demographic change the government has made? Great. Congratulations. Once again, while we are on the subject of housing and linking it to this, this is undoubtedly the process, this demographic change creates many empty homes in Hungary, but this may not be the way to create empty homes. The other, honourable Congressman Hollik, is that after the last six years, who would dare to say that the opposition's invention is that you are conducting personalised legislation? Don't be ridiculous. I'll give you some examples, but I'm very happy to continue with you, say, the billing of posters, when there was a company called ESMA, you were forbidden to post posters on billboards in the public area; then this company, after it had already been destroyed, was bought by István Garancsi, a law came in order to re-enact such activities. Then how interesting that when we adopted the casino packages, everyone knew that it would benefit Andy Vajna! How interesting that when we looked after the laws of the land, who could get the most land for themselves, the names of János Lázár, Lőrinc Mészáros and László L. Simon came out! How interesting it is that there's a recording of how, after your traff laws, Fidesz buddies are supposed to distribute their trade concessions! Shall I continue, Congressman Hollik? Or should I continue with regard to those who hold public office, where I told you at yesterday's committee meeting that either we, opposition representatives, have the capacity to vitaes, or that your laws make it very clear who they have written it on? [[11.40]] For opposition representatives, long before they spoke about personal issues, they were able to say who the Attorney General would be, who would be president of the OBH, who would be constitutional judges, but we could also say that the casino tenders would be won by Andy Vajna. Either we're good fortune-tellers or your laws are personalized. So don't say such things to me here in the Hungarian Parliament that you do not create personalised laws! [[Dr. Zsolt Legény: Personal, personal.]] Well, it's clear as day, but the idiot doesn't see it, and I'm sorry, Congressman. And the argument, because you were the only one, by the way, to be honest, who at least tried to disprove what we had analyzed long enough, whether my fellow chef or the better general speaker, who this thing was written on, at least you said that in two years' time new companies could enter. You know, Congressman, with certain logical rules, you can get there to make sure that this statement proves one thing, that in the next two years, you believe that these two companies are the ones that come up and no one else is. Then whether or not other companies will come in two years' time is another question - not very much in my opinion - but then you will create a monopoly for two years? Did you say that, Congressman? [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: That's right!]] Because, by the way, one pro-government representative didn't reflect on these questions. Congressman Hollik, do you know what would comfort us? If the Minister, the Secretary of State, you or even Congressman Vantara stood up and said that these two companies were not going to win the tender. Stand up and say that. Stand up and say that. Who are you to report this? I asked yesterday at the committee meeting the secretary of state, who was not the secretary of state who was present - of course, I would like to hear the answer from you too, and we did not hear very much from him - whether they looked at the fact that, on the basis of these conditions, as you have submitted this law, anyone can apply for this activity in Hungary today outside the companies we have designated, whether they can do such an activity. We didn't get an answer. Well, we got an answer that obviously had an indirect bearing on it that, unfortunately, we're right about that. If not, stand up and say that there is no, and understand why not. Because for the time being, only one statement was made, supported by evidence that these two companies were going to win. And I do not want to prove to be a good candidate again with my fellow Members, when, in a few weeks or months' time, these two companies will start this activity. What I would like to say to Mr Vantara's speech is that you are probably living in a dream world and are not leaving the Fidesz circle of friends. Because when someone says that today there are mass savings for people in Hungary, they certainly do not know the reality. But not only do you not know the reality, but you also do not know the data of KSH, according to which 67 percent of Hungarian citizens and Hungarian families could not finance an unexpected 50 thousand forints edition - 67 percent of it is an unexpected 50 thousand forints edition. Then tell me what percentage of Hungarian society will be able to pay 83,000 forints a month for this purpose. Just a fraction. I'm sure that's not how they're gonna solve the housing situation for people with a difficult fate. And what else can you do? There are examples. In fact, I can say that there is a good socialist example of this, since we are constantly being whipped. Let me see the XIII. Circuit! Take a look at the district that has been under socialist leadership for many years. Angelland evolves as no other part of Budapest or this country. How many apartments have been built and what do they look like in Angelland? I do not wish to talk about this for a longer time, because my fellow believer is more competent in this, because he was a deputy mayor... [[István Hollik: In many things!]] In these jobs. [[Dr. Répássy, Róbert: Guilty Accommodation... Dezső Believing: We'll talk about that later... the president's ringing the bell.]]
u2016-03-17-44	[[Dr. Répássy to Robert:]] Congressman!
u2016-03-17-45	Ladies and gentlemen, I wouldn't be proud, if I were you, of how many more conceptual prosecutions they could get out of Peter Polt's prosecution. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: Come on!]] I wouldn't be proud. Because they're absolving the people you're accusing. They're absolving those people! [[Dr. Zsolt Legény: How many conceptual lawsuits... the intervention of Dr. Répássy Róbert. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2016-03-17-46	[[To Dr. Gergely Bárándy:]] Congressman, please get to the point. [[The president's ringing again. Dr. Répássy to Robert:]] Congressman! Congressman Répássy will have an opportunity in two minutes. Here you go, Congressman, go on. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó's intervention.]]
u2016-03-17-47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, back to that, and I'm sticking to that, there are some socialist examples that could be followed at national level. It would be worth considering, observing, and moving there rather than sharing money with your friends in this way again. And you know why we always talk about it: there's a very simple reason. In Parliament, I think that the real legislative goal must be examined, not what is otherwise described, but it is not true. Once again, the real legislative goal is that a man who is dear to you, or who will obviously return some money to you, should be placed in a position of benefit and be able to launder state money for him. That's what this bill is about. That is why everyone is talking about this, except, of course, my fellow members who are pro-government. And there are many signs of this, which I said at the Legislative Committee's meeting. But in addition to the 24 hours, why the hell would the Minister of Propaganda submit this law? Well, if there's anything to tell, then that's it. If this law is put forward by someone, or become a Member of Parliament, or the Minister of Housing Policy. [[Dr. Zsolt Crew's intervention.]] What does the Minister of Propaganda have to do with this? Unless maybe it's his buddy, but we haven't figured that out yet. So to sum up, fellow Members, this law is a scandal. It has nothing to do with housing policy; it has nothing to do with housing support. It has one thing to do with the Mafia state and institutionalized state theft. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-17-48	Thank you, Congressman Bárándy. We're gonna have two-minute comments. First, I give the floor to Congressman Robert Répássy, Fidesz.
u2016-03-17-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Congressman Bárándy, You spoke of thick skin, good socialist examples, and you accused my fellow Member Hollik of growing thick leather despite his youth. At that time, I did intervene, and I said that you have a Member of Parliament sitting next to you, who is being prosecuted, on charges of bribery in public procurement. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Good concept procedure!]] Of course, he is entitled to the presumption of innocence, but here you accuse a young fellow Member and all other Members of Parliament of all kinds of corruption, while sitting next to you is a socialist Member, whom you mentioned as a good example, set a good example for us, and a criminal prosecution is being conducted against him. I wish our fellow Member to defend himself in court. But I can tell you, Congressman Bárándy, more modesty, Comrade Bárándy. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Moore from the benches of MSZP. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That was weak... applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-03-17-50	Thank you very much, Congressman Répássy. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpa for two minutes, Jobbik.
u2016-03-17-51	Mr President, Dear House, We came to the conclusion from an interrogation because we did not have the chance to respond as State Secretary to why the government wished to extend the scope of the alleged benefits to migrants and refugees. It has been suggested that, where appropriate, there is an EU directive or an EU commitment that we may not know about. For the record, the paper package you put down is 33. The fact that the State aid referred to in paragraph 2 of paragraph 2 is granted to a member who is a) (a) (b)... and (c) is an immigrant or established person recognised as a refugee or a protected person. The fact is, you have already made this mistake in the case of the extension of the CSOK. There, too, they made the huge deer mistake of making available to migrants, refugees, protected, uninvited aliens a mass of benefits from the Hungarian taxpayers' money, which would have been perfectly justified. However, in this regard, it can be said that, if only the practice of the EU Court of Justice is examined, the CSOK is also a form of social support for example. With regard to social assistance, migrants, I repeat, have used the expression that, in the case of uninvited aliens, the state is only obliged to provide basic social assistance, so this may be limited to the basic level. [[11.50]] We would therefore be very interested to know why, in the case of the CSOK, you have, despite any relevant EU order or commitment, extended this amount of benefit to migrants, you want to do so now. What's the underlying reason? What kind of commitment did they make that we don't know about? What sane reason could there be for paying Hungarian taxpayers' money, even in the form of such a question mark, but for foreigners as compensation? Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-17-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next up is Congressman Sallai Benedek, LMP.
u2016-03-17-53	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, I would like to assure everyone that there is peace and love in my heart, and I do not want to be rude, but, obviously, the speech of several pro-government Members, so my fellow Member Hollik's is opening the slap-bag because what they are performing here in this legislation is obviously going a little too far. It starts with us sitting here in Parliament yesterday, you weren't here, you were somewhere else, we're sitting here in Parliament, and the FM admits that the government is unable to register dogs. He doesn't have the capacity, he doesn't have the ability to handle the conflict, he doesn't have the background, he gives it to a civilian. The next day they come here and convince us that you are able to resolve the situation of Hungarian families. Well, who's gonna believe that? Well, they can't even register dogs. Do you want to deal with the situation of families? Well, I'm sorry, it's basically very hard to believe. Just like it's hard to believe that all of you here are saying how important this is for Fidesz, but at the same time there's 1-2-3-4-5-6 of the ruling parties? Is it that important to the Fidesz Members of Parliament? Or is everyone in their single mandate district now consulting the public on how to vote today? Six people are in there, and they want to push through a law in one day with six people from the governing party, who have this topic of utmost importance, persuading us, the majority opposition in Parliament at the moment, how important this is. And, obviously, I join my fellow Member, Barándy, that it is terribly talkative that the Minister of Propaganda comes here, goes up to the pulpit, gives a large-scale speech on the activities of the governments between 2002 and 2010, thereby convincing society that what the government is doing is certainly good, and then he will go, and he will not participate in the debate. Because as Minister of Propaganda, you don't have to argue with him, so you don't have to talk to him in Parliament and defend his position. [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: Here is the Hollik imager!]] And the reason it's weird is because it's Antal Rogán, whose considerable expertise in real estate matters we've learned over the past few years. I mean, he's the one with spontaneous growing real estate, and he's the one who's gained considerable experience in the V. district real estate market, how to sell real estate, say, the press says, "Aunt Habony's," which can be sold for 50 million more in a short time. So with these experiences, obviously, Antal Rogán has the background to present one of these here. At the same time, as Minister of Propaganda, after he tells us that he is leaving, ensuring us how good family tax incentives are and how family-friendly the government is. Please, you will obviously forgive me, or perhaps you will try to excuse me from reflecting on those that you obviously agree with as opposition representatives: the family tax reduction and some measures, but to point to those with which you are engaged in completely opposite activities, as you are talking about as family support and discounts. One of my fellow Member Hollik's most important moments, and there is really nothing to be messed with about the demographic situation. You're absolutely right. The demographic situation in Hungary is tragic. For what? After six years of government, don't you even have your own responsibility? So you can think about it, you have to look at it; I don't know, we haven't known each other for a long time, believe me, I have done very, very much to make the government of Ferenc Gyurcsány fail because I didn't agree with the direction they were doing. But in his worst year, not as many people have gone abroad as you have every year, leaving the country! And there's no responsibility for what's happened in the last six years? What has led to this demographic situation? What results in practically talking about families in this way? And obviously, as a KDNP representative, I accept your opinion, although I am now going to mention with a little bit of a tease that the newspaper also said that the KDNP is the worst in family planning in Parliament, and the number of children per person is the lowest. So, probably, about having a child, how to do it, some thoughts should be shared within factions. [[Mátyás Firtl: I have a grandson!]] But this is certainly not the real opposition feat, the opposition bravure is that - I measured it on purpose, and I was very interested - for 12 minutes he talked about what the socialist governments were doing, and then in the 12th minute he turned to this bill and talked about it until the 14th minute, and then he returned to socialist governments. And that's what he's trying to sell, how good that is. But what is this proposal? There is practically a law before us, where someone in a monopoly situation allows them to play a pontoon with the Hungarian people's money, who can participate in it, so that thank you very much, I will wash my hands on the law, I will not take any responsibility for getting this money or not getting it. They're bringing in a pilot's play, that's basically what this is about. And, obviously, this may well be an excuse to provoke indignation in opposition lines. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] And they are obviously continuing to do so, as my fellow members of the Government are continuing this line of opposition; Möldinger My fellow Member specifically said that home creation is not an important goal for those who do not support it. Of course it's an important goal. Why doubt that we too would like to create, at least on our own behalf, that we would like to see a lot more families in Hungary and that we would be happy if they could create a home? Here we have to talk about whether this is a good goal of home creation. Obviously, we're coming here to create a home, but the problem is that you're trying this way and putting the country in a test run: we're trying something, it's not working. What we've tried has resulted in an emigration, it's not good, let's try something else. And you have no idea what the effects will be. And they bring in these laws in such a way that they can't even think about competent people, and the Minister of Propaganda comes and tries to sell to society how good this is gonna be. So please, Möldinger (sic!) my fellow Member, so that he does not say such things, that anyone who does not support this legislation does not need to raise a family, because this is a very nasty demagogy and a malicious remark. We simply think that these are not good tools to create a family. My fellow Member, Mr Vantara, has already left the room; he obviously did what the country required, said his own speech, says how the families fell apart under the MSZP governments. Well, please, what's going on? Don't emigration cause families to fall apart? When the head of the family works a thousand kilometers away and sends the money home? Didn't your activities lead to a breakdown of families? 580,000 people who earn their living abroad and send them home so that the family can fulfill their domestic burdens at some level? And the fact that you didn't support the families with previous governments, I don't want to argue with that, because I don't specialize in analysing the activities of the 2002-2010 government, but one thing is for sure, what you have done with tax policy, and you can talk about child numbers, anything else, there are positive elements, and there are a lot of things that are completely counterproductive. And the facts, the most important indicators, are the result. You have to see how many children are born, how much emigration - these indicators! Don't bring me statistical data and numbers. [[István Hollik: Disturbing!]] If you are not convinced by the birth of a child, emigration and new home creation! Several people mentioned it, but let's look at the government's performance for the last six years. Minister of Propaganda also said a number, not exactly named, but for ten thousand inhabitants in Poland there are 38 new apartments, in the Czech Republic there are 25-30 apartments, from which was the example that in the war-torn Ukraine there are 10-20 apartments and in Hungary there are 8.5 apartments. Please, isn't this the result of the last six years? Who, Kádár, is responsible for this or the socialist governments? Why? Tell me, haven't you had the government, the fiscal policy in your hands for the last six years? The three most important instruments, the legislative environment, tax policy and subsidies, have been available as your instruments and have done nothing about it. Under your control, there are these terrible processes. And why is that? The reason why budget resources are being raised, practically working out, spending on their own hobbies while trying to finance each development from EU funds. Please, it is your government who has created billionaires through public procurement procedures and has created billions in Hungary only by instilling EU development resources. You don't think that had a negative impact on the Hungarian construction industry? Yes, you can. Well, in the last year, the number of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary has fallen four times, if they insist on statistics. It's been laid four times. And what's the reason? Say, "Oh, of course, it's purified, because tax frauds are excluded." No! It's about you destroying local businesses, small settlements and construction companies in order to put these big billionaires in a position to capitalise. You say that, Prime Minister, that the recapitalisation of Hungarian businesses is very useful. Yes, that's right, but the problem is that no one thought that this had to be done for two or three families, and this obviously led to the construction industry being in this critical situation. And when you talk about families, you try to deal with this critical situation. Because the reduction of the VAT on new buildings is basically the support of construction. [[12.00]] They are trying to boost how to change this negative situation. And they still don't go there to see how small businesses that dealt with two people, three people, room painting, or wall-covering, or anything else that needs to be done in small houses. No, you're still not going this way, but you're helping the big ones that are going to build 20 to 30 family houses here in the agglomeration at the same time. And what will the effect be? I commend this to my fellow rural Members from the ranks of Fidesz, who represent Hungarian voters as individual representatives. What we can also see from statistics is that in Hungary, with the exception of two regions - the central region, Budapest and its surroundings and the agglomeration, and West Hungary, Győr - there is between 10 and 30 percent of the intention of emigration in Hungary. This will be the result of your policy that those who have not yet been able to sell their house for 2-3 million because there is no price in the country for the houses for sale will now be able to go further from the Hungarian villages and small settlements and leave their homes. [[Intercoms from the pro-government ranks.]] 'Cause they can practically try to find the background. What else does our Minister of Propaganda say? [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] The Minister of Propaganda says that the need to increase GDP is important in the background. Please, by increasing GDP, family effectiveness cannot be measured. GDP doesn't measure how families live and how they have a home. They're measuring the spending. They're using totally inappropriate metrics for what they're trying to measure. So the indicator system and indicator system that are trying to stop Hungary's negative demographic processes, which has been significantly created or supported by the governance of the last six years, is inadequate. The worst thing is that they're doing all this with a device that creates this game in a monopolistic position so that people who may have the opportunity to participate will not have any guarantees. And when you say it's a voluntary process, remember one thing: that part of it may be voluntary, who enters, but those who pay taxes and use their taxes in this way are not voluntary. Hungarian taxpayers have not voluntarily decided to use the taxpayers' money in this way. No! This was only decided by the pro-government majority, and the Hungarian taxpayers who took the money from them, who do not have the opportunity to get into one of these, take it and give it to others. That is what is a terrible mistake, and that is why this legislation is unacceptable. I would ask you, in the tone of friendship and love, with all due respect, to consider whether this is a wise suggestion, to think whether this knows the purpose. They're making an idea out of the National Assembly here when they come after one idea with the other and see if one of them gets any results! One thing is certain: emigration from Hungary, the number of births of children, does not support the fact that they are able to produce any results so far. The amount of money that has been spent and what has been created can obviously be spelled with numbers, as is the case, because what my fellow Member Vantara has said supports exactly what is now seen as a threat, as he himself said that experience with the CSOK clearly supports the fact that so far there is a demand for residential property, and that a large part of the families are thinking about it. This is not entirely over two months of data that our fellow Member Vantara has said and comes from the banks, but this data is something that would be worth thinking about, how can a support system be set up so that those who might move and sell their property because of any work or family obligations find a market and find a buyer, while those who are looking for the property and who would like to move into any rural home because they still have an adventure in the Hungarian countryside, but those who can find it and buy it. All I ask of you is that, after I know that you will do anything in my opinion, you will vote to consider whether it really represents the interests of your constituents, and how many of your constituents will benefit from it throughout any Hungarian village. The settlements could be said practically from Zala to Szabolcs, how many small settlements in your constituency will be able to make use of this opportunity and how much benefit this whole proposal is in the interests of those people that cost Hungarian taxpayers money, and besides financing many other public tasks - I do not want to mention health care and education always - it would, however, create the opportunity to spend it more usefully. I would also like to ask Mr State Secretary here at the end of the debate that we would be pleased if he were to take part in the debate, because there is no longer any way to respond to the closing words, so there is a much narrower opportunity for us to exchange ideas. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-03-17-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary Csaba Dömötör. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-17-55	Thank you. I'd like to take that chance anyway. Allow me to respond to a few suggestions. As regards the organisers of national home-building communities, the government is rightly expected to guarantee that businesses with adequate professional experience and appropriate references can be organised. That's why he introduced the concept of a reliable organizer. The government expects many companies to meet these conditions, which are clear. There is one important fact that we cannot avoid here. State aid is granted not to companies, not to organisers, but to citizens who have house savings. Let us not forget this fact. As regards comments on consumer groups, the national home-building community is not a consumer group. If, by the way, there have been problems with consumer groups in the past, then they have been the result of loose legislation, the loose legal environment. On the other hand, there are strict conditions here. The organisers of national home-building communities must have a basic capital of HUF 100 million, have a reserve of 3 per cent and have an adequate professional record. However, they are also subject to conflict of interest rules. As far as the idea of piloting is concerned, these are frivolous. The common feature of the pilot games is that it constantly allows new members to enter, this is not possible in this case, as there are a limited number of members of the home creation communities. As for Jobbik's idea of social housing, the government's position here is clear. He wants the new apartments to be owned by himself. This is a philosophical question, but the government's position is clear: it wants to see own-owned homes, own-owned houses, because we believe that own-owned property is one of the most important parts of civic life. As regards the idea of LMP as to why this model is more advantageous, this construction than the housing register is for two reasons. On the one hand, because of the greater state aid. Instead of the state contribution of HUF 72 thousand per year, the annual contribution may be HUF 300 thousand, which is significantly higher. On the other hand, this model is more beneficial because of the experience that over 90 percent of the savings in the housing register were previously intended for the renovation of the first used housing. This is not in the sense of the government's intention that if the government provided significant state aid for home-building, then it would be good to have new homes built beyond the renovation of used homes. By the way, the promotion of new apartments is also particularly important instead of used apartments because the construction of new apartments contributes eight times more to economic growth than the renovation of used apartments. But I think that Congressman Bárándy mentioned the example in the angelland and said that it would be good to apply socialist solutions elsewhere, even at national level. Let us, therefore, look at the experience we have with the socialists doing housing policy. You may even have had a secretary of state for housing policy. What are the results? At the time of the first civilian government, there was a well-functioning home-building programme that the socialists had beaten up; all this was not promised. In 2002, Péter Medgyessy said that the home creation program was a thing to continue. A year had passed, he had already taken up government, said that there was not enough funding, and typically he also said that they could only cover the sources of the home creation program from abroad. That's extremely talkative. After that, the home creation programme, the preferential loans, was virtually abolished, and their nesting program failed badly. To make this worse, unlimited foreign exchange lending has been allowed. There's no way around that. Between 2004 and 2010, foreign currency loans increased from 150 billion to HUF 3000 billion. That meant hundreds of thousands were trapped in a debt trap. This was the situation that the current government was seeking to remedy when it decided on bank accountability, in which banks had to repay about $1,000 billion for unfair loans to citizens. Therefore, as far as socialist housing policy is concerned, thank you very much, but we do not want to introduce [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Do you talk about Angelland?]] Because it didn't bring the construction of the new apartments, but it did bring in debt. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]] [[12.10]]
u2016-03-17-56	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We will continue with the proper speeches. Congressman Csaba Gyure asked for the floor from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-17-57	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! I feel that Fidesz-KDNP is the one who called this bill frivolous, because if you have given Parliament 24 hours to lie on the table of Parliament and give half an hour to an opposition group to comment on this, I feel that this is indeed frivolous for you, or there is some reason why you do not dare to argue on this matter, you do not dare to discuss it in the ordinary procedure. I can't stop thinking about this, because it would have been possible, it would have been six years ago for the current government to submit such a proposal; they didn't, but now they want to pass the vote in 24 hours. What have we experienced in the last six years? Who's good with this bill? Who are the Fidesz-KDNP supporters? Obviously, the speakers before me have already dealt with this topic: obviously there is an oligarch layer that they want to support with public procurement, with their land policy, and they want to create a large ownership layer. And by the way, who are they supporting? Obviously, a narrow layer, the top layer of the upper middle class, that's what this bill is all about. [[Happy Stephen intervenes.]] That's what this bill is all about, because who's gonna be able to use it? I don't doubt that this bill is yours. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches.]] Fidesz-KDNP government majority will vote [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And it's gonna go through, but people are gonna decide who's gonna be able to use it. Because you're increasing the family support system, so more families can get home, it's definitely good and supportive. But who do you support? Who will be able to use this? We see that there must be a deposit of HUF 83 000 per month to use the maximum state aid, but I do not think that it will be enough to actually buy an average new apartment of 30 million in ten years. How much income do you need in a family? A earner needs a net HUF 300,000 to pay this amount. Who have that kind of income? Because we have seen, for example, who you have helped in the foreign exchange crisis: those who have been able to pay the sum could exchange their foreign exchange credit at the right exchange rate. And the others? And that's what this is all about again. What about the others? I'm from Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County. What's the average income? Do you know what the average income in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County is? Gross 141 thousand forints. If we translate this net, 95 grand. How can an average Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county man pay 83 thousand forints of his net income of 95 thousand forints, when he still has to make a living, his children have to be supported, clothed, schooled, his rent has to be paid and the rest? ! So there is simply no possibility for an average sabolcsi person to make use of this, but I think that neither does anyone else in Hungary. So there will be a 5 percent layer, top of the upper middle class, to whom you will again grant state aid of HUF 3 million to get home, and again you will not support the people on whom society can be based, the broad masses, the wider Hungarian nation. You say that this will have an economic uplifting effect. How will it boost the economy? Will you build a few thousand apartments as a result of this maximum? They say, but we need new apartments. But why don't we build new apartments? Think about it. The opposition politicians have already raised your responsibility, your government responsibility for the past six years. What do you want to create in Hungary? A minimum wage assembly plant where people work for minimum wage. How can they pay such amounts from the minimum wage? They have not spent the last six years bringing economic policy incentives to this country so that people can have higher incomes. It was the Prime Minister who inspired Saudi Arabia's investors to come to Hungary, where wages are the lowest. Well, that's good, Canaan for foreign investors. But we want the Hungarian people to have Canaan, not foreign investors, and unfortunately this bill will only give any discount to this narrow layer. Economic recovery? Well, that's not gonna happen, it's basically gonna have to change somewhere else. Turkey has a lot of new apartments built every year, but why? Because the Turkish nation is increasing by one million people a year, and in Hungary the Hungarian nation is losing radical weight. So how do we expect new apartments to be built if there are no people to move in there? There are also 600,000 people who could build a flat in Hungary, but they don't want to settle down here because they don't have a job and they leave the country because the economic conditions are such that they won't be able to get a living job in Hungary. When that is the case, how do we expect this to boost the economy? How do we expect these people to build here if they simply cannot obtain income in Hungary? Of course there is low unemployment in Hungary, there are plenty of public workers. Then how are public workers going to get involved in this, for example, with your net worth of 53,000 forints? So here you will exclude 95 percent of Hungarian society from the possibility of accessing this home creation opportunity and will again give 3 million forints to a privileged layer. Well, that's one of your biggest problems. And then we can talk about countless things, the OBA. If you're saying that you're so insured under the law that people won't lose their money, then why don't you dare take responsibility for these funds? We've got a foreign exchange loan crisis on our hands where a lot of people have lost their money, their apartment. And what does an apartment mean for a Hungarian person? An average Hungarian family has to spend the rest of their life cramming their money to get access to the property of an apartment. Here are the broker scandals, where they once again said that in an instant the family could lose all their wealth, that the work of a life would be lost. And that means there's no insurance behind it? How will people trust this if they have seen in a series of ways that brokerage companies can fall for it in Hungary, my house savings can be lost from one moment to the next, my home could be lost as a result of the foreign currency credit crisis? This all shows that people have no confidence, no confidence in this, because it is indeed tempting that the 30 percent is added by the state, but there is no guarantee. People will decide whether to use it, but unfortunately 95 percent of society will be excluded. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-17-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. Once again, I address Secretary Csaba Dömötör. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-17-59	Thank you, Mr. President. Allow me to react briefly. You've done calculations, which I think is very appropriate in such a debate, but I think you've ignored a few things when you did these calculations. First of all, the fact that, for example, the family home-building allowance is also acceptable as an own contribution to home-building communities and, for example, that the amount of previous housing savings funds can be used. I think it is only important to say this because only the number of payments made by the housing savings bank and the number of people using it is one million, so the calculations that say that a few thousand people can be affected by this community are wrong. We think that the elements of the home creation programme - the reduction of VAT, the extension of the family home creation discount, the simplification of licensing procedures or this new community - create a good opportunity for all Hungarian citizens to get a new apartment. It is also an important fact that even public workers will be able to benefit from the family home-building allowance in the future, and for them the solution will be the CSOK for used homes. I also consider it important that every Hungarian citizen will be able to decide which of these measures will benefit from. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-03-17-60	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform this House that the KDNP Group will hand over seven minutes of its timeframe to the Fidesz Group. Member Dezső, the notary of the Parliament, from the group of the MSZP, is next. Here you go.
u2016-03-17-61	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Fellow Members! Obviously, I came to this House to address this issue and to express my opinion on this, but there have been events on which I have to respond, and this is not necessarily a matter for this matter. Congressman! Congressman Répássy! You don't know much about my case. It's obviously come out of what you told me. In my case, I haven't been the one who should be ashamed of you since the first trial. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert's intervention:]] Yeah, check it out. [[12.20]] And it's obvious that I know more about this case. I think that when this case is over, I won't have to be the one to be ashamed of. And I will be very curious whether you will have the decency to follow me after this. [[Dr. Répássy, Robert: But why did you have to hurt István Hollik? Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Because he said things like that.]] I'm curious about that.
u2016-03-17-62	Congressman Répássy, who will then be able to use two minutes at the end of the debate as a matter of personal concern. Thank you. Go on.
u2016-03-17-63	I do not wish to say any more about this, but I would like to say a few thoughts on the subject. One: the goals they have set are good goals. I think that it is a very good idea that housing may be able to stimulate the economy, that it may be able to change the demographic aspect of family home creation in a positive direction in the coming period, increase the number of births and build more and more homes. But I also feel the desperate efforts you are trying to make. That's what the CSOK was like, and that's what this new idea is. It is quite obvious that in the case of the CSOK, they have missed, and it is obvious to me that this is happening now. Why? Because no impact assessment was carried out, they could not assess in advance what interest they would have in them. I do not want to go into detail - several of my fellow Members have already said - that we have to pay 83 thousand forints a month, but Hungarian average payments do not allow a significant number of people to participate in this. My fellow Member mentioned that there is a model where this works well. Yes, the XIII. in the district, where I used to be deputy mayor, this system works. It's inevitable for you, too, to build state housing. Annex XIII is replaced by the text set out in Annex XIII to this Regulation. 500 apartments were built in the district in the past few years. Consider whether this can be achieved at state level. This municipality alone has built more apartments than all the others in the country. But we don't know much about the state building. So I suggest you think about it. Unfortunately, my time is up. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-03-17-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. A proper speech from the KDNP group will be followed by Mr István Hollik, who will be followed by Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát.
u2016-03-17-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. A lot of people mentioned me, so I thought I'd add a few more words to the debate. First of all, I would like to say to my fellow Member, Barándy, that a good friend of mine said that if someone tries to reason with my youth in a debate, then I should rest assured, because that means that there is no other reason for content. I saw this happen. The MSZP accused, yelled at corruption, but could not give any meaningful criticism of the national community for home creation. Secondly, I would also like to respond to my fellow Member, Barándy. You're a lawyer, which is why you know, if you quote, it's a good thing to quote. I didn't say that the government had made a successful demographic turn, but I said that the government and Fidesz-KDNP were trying to achieve a sustainable demographic turnaround. I didn't say we did it. I have already had an argument with Dániel Z. Carpathian about this. I didn't say this case was a success. And I didn't say it could be seen as a success. I said it was modest, but it is worth noting that, if it is a solid result, we have already achieved it in this regard. It is worth looking at the fact that during the socialists' governance the fertility rate has fallen to 1.2, and we have been able to raise it to 1.45 per cent by 2014. This is indeed very far from the 2.1 fertility rate that would reproduce the population. That doesn't mean we're far away, but I'd like to ask you not to twist my word. I said that that is why we are doing everything we can, and it seems that we have already achieved solid results in this regard. What is the difference between the mentality of the socialists and our mentality? This bill immediately reminded our fellow Member Bárándy of what kind of economic enterprises this would benefit. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Only one!]] That's the difference. The government created this legislation by incorporating guarantee elements into it. If you have already mentioned the logic of shaping: if we say that you must be involved in the construction and sale of thousands of homes, have no public debt, have no proceedings against it, then I think that these are common rules. We're on the side of the rules, and you're looking at what interest this is in. This is the essence of your policy, and it's still governed. At every rule, they immediately looked at the interests of their interests, then went after them and held their hands. Besides, they're yelling about corruption sitting in the benches of your party, János Zuschlag and Miklós Hagyó, and now you're sitting next to Dezső Believing, who's being prosecuted. So you're accusing us of these things? ! I think a little modesty should be exercised in this regard. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You can only laugh at that!]] We have not heard constructive, substantive criticism or proposal from the MSZP regarding the national community for home creation. At least Jobbik said one thing, that they support our proposals. I would like to draw the attention of Dániel Z. Carpathian, who accused me of lying, to arguing with his youth organization. But I'm glad they're supporting the CSOK. That's good. Their constructive proposal was to mention that they would also like to launch a rental program. This gives us the opportunity to draw attention to the philosophical difference and approach between us. We want to give property to Hungarian families, not force them into a lease. And speaking of the 13th. I was talking about the district: I watched the XIII. in the district, an apartment that is very solid enough for a family of two children, so what is the monthly market rent for a 50-60 sq m property. What I saw was that the 59 square meters had 150 thousand forints, the 65 square meters had 180 thousand forints. If we say, my dearest fellow Members, that we are asking the tenants for only half of the market price with the public housing programme, then we are concerned that they would like to ask Hungarian citizens for 80 thousand HUF as rents without having property in twenty and thirty years. By contrast, they will be able to obtain real estate in 10 years by depositing 83 thousand HUF in the national home creation community. That's the difference between you and me. We want Hungarian families to have property, and you want to force them into apartments. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-17-66	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, all my fellow Members, I can speak out to everyone in the time frame if they sign in at the push of a button. This also applies to Mr Happy and Mr Z. Carpathian, who pressed the button. I have another request for information from Sallai R. Benedek. Now would be an opportunity for a two-minute speech, but this request has been deleted at this moment. You're taking the two-minute chance? [[Sallai R. Benedek: I would like to make a proper speech.]] Okay, thank you very much. Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian is next. Here you go.
u2016-03-17-67	Mr President, Dear House, Sometimes you feel like you're in a circus, because they don't push buttons, they just yell at you. I will try, with sufficient restraint, to open the professional debate that has begun in part. You can brag, but once again, you're not in the circus. We're discussing a very important bill. You could talk to him. It's a shame that they'll put this down to us in 24 hours, and then instead of adding professional ammunition to this day, they'll be here in Parliament with us. Make it worthwhile if you want to add something to this. What is very important is that you said you had solid results in slowing down population loss. I did not say that this was stopped, because Hungary's biggest problem is its tragic demography. The fact is, on the other hand, that in 2014, 2015, I would like to point this out to my fellow Member Hollik in the statistics of the previous closed years, the situation is unfortunately much worse than it had been outlined, as the population loss of 35,000 people at the previous annual level has now grown to 40,000 people. Don't shake your head, but look into it. Unfortunately, that's true. I don't want that to happen. I'm not against it, I support all the sensible chapters of the government's family support measures. [[12.30]] But the thing is, unfortunately, we can't even report these solid results, we can't even show as many live births a year as in the last two years of the first Orbán government. So you can see that the country is in an amazing low-flying state. Yeah, he had a social-liberal eight years, but he's had the last six years in this system. We can see that, unfortunately, population loss has increased in terms of quantity, if you can live with such an ugly word. I very much hope that the minimum rate of fertility will continue to move up substantially and in a measurable way. In the meantime, we should also note that their solid results include the fact that, in terms of measurements of KSH in the capital and certain districts of Pest County, population loss may not be as tragic as the interval between 2050 and 2060, but it is possible to show full Hungarian counties, where 30-50 percent of the population may be lost in the coming decades. So this country is going through an amazing tear. That's something that needs to be taken care of. And that's exactly what home-building programs would be suitable for. I will try to highlight to my fellow Christian Democrats our attitude towards ownership of a separate apartment and rentals. After all, you use these terms in a very exclusive, simplistic way. If my fellow Member, Hollik, had listened to how we had explained the essence of Jobbik's rental program in the past period, he would have seen that, yes, the whole system starts from a rental relationship here, with a maximum of half and a third of the current rental prices. After all, there has been an incredible supply shortage in this market. If we could only reduce this supply shortage in Budapest, it would also lead to the setting of prices, because with the central acquisition of material, with the involvement of qualified Hungarian contractors, a similar program could be made available to tens of thousands of Hungarian families, which then transforms the rent into a voluntary payment, allowing subsequent housing ownership. This one mixed construction could be the way to bring about the desired, say, 41-42 thousand new homes or new property each year, at least close to the current 8 thousand, with great enthusiasm from about 8 thousand levels. And to blame this on the foreign exchange loan, that you bled out the Hungarian construction industry with the socialists, and you couldn't show up, say, a 15,000 or 20,000 new-built apartments in a single year? This is the failure of the Hungarian economy, one of the negative indicators of the catastrophic state of Hungarian society in addition to emigration and population loss. When mentioning the number of living births, I did not even mention how many Hungarian children are born outside our current borders, and it can be said that these families may not be coming home. I really hope so. But counting them in the statistics here at least distorts the picture that we have in front of us. We also see that in terms of property, Jobbik has never been against independent housing. Once again, you are working out packages for the upper middle class and upwards for those who can afford to go into a new-built apartment and get it. While there's almost 90 percent who can't think about it. He can think about expanding the parental reception, and in good times he used to buy real estate, along with a credit facility. Indeed, it should also be possible for children who wish to come into the world, who would otherwise not only be able to alleviate the Hungarian demographic disaster, but also to reduce the desire to emigration through a normal housing program, so that if there is a reason to stay here, it is not necessarily necessary to go abroad. And we also see that we are very, very far from a sustainable demographic turn, at a distance of decades, even if these movements within the margin of error become permanent, and, let's say, the rate of population loss in thousands does not continue to increase. So I very much hope that this turn of events will be successful, and I very much hope that this turn of events is not expected from this impertinent package that you wish to put before Hungarian citizens within 24 hours in such a way that your home creation programme will be able to win something by bidding or not. First clear me, then the bidding will decide whether or not you'll get something for it. It is quite amazing that this is what you expect to break through at a time when you have been unable to develop a panel programme, even if EU funds are available, but you have not followed up on this. No public-aid housing programme has been developed, no budgetary resources have been allocated for this purpose. The National Asset Manager is considered the backbone of their home creation program, where they take property from Hungarian people in a way legalized by banks, so that they can then rent their own apartments back. So you legalized the bank free robbery. That's the shame, that's why they should change and go in a positive direction! Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-17-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Sallai R. Benedek is coming from the LMP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-17-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for taking part in the debate and responding. It's, uh, it's not really fashionable for the government members to do that, is it? So thank you very much for giving us the honour of your opinion, and this is how we may perhaps have a dialogue on these issues within a very, very limited framework. What you were saying was that you were right to expect the government to involve secure companies in this process. My respectful question is that I saw the announcements of the Legislative Committee yesterday, there in several opposition speeches it was stated that practically two companies were in compliance with the current rules, with the same owner. You said in your speech that you wanted more people. Is there a chance? Do you have any information on how many are adequate? It is equally questionable what national representativeness this can be achieved. Because if you look at the former activities of these, like Carion, where it works, it has an extremely city-centred and capital-centred funding system where it operates. While this does not apply to housing funds, they were also available to the smallest banking providers. In fact, a lot of people had access to it. So I would like to know how this service will be available in rural areas where such assistance is most needed. Because this is the safe service that you expect, if the ideas expressed at the Legislative Committee's meeting are true, that these two companies are practically equivalent to the same owner, they are not insured at the moment. Then the question is why we are not waiting for a social debate, perhaps with a greater consensus, to think of a system that has a chance for people to enter this market, so that people can create a background for their participation. So why do we have to create this monopoly situation? Mr. Secretary of State would be kind enough to explain to us the essence of the pilot's play. I liked to say that one of the points is that new members always enter and finance the income of those who entered earlier. I don't know about pilot games, but what I read about them, I also know that some people take the money, and some people just stay put. Then, if legislation at the moment does not provide government or state guarantees that everyone will be paid, then what makes it different than piloting? What is it that appears as a guarantee that the first few members who joined will actually be able to buy their property on all their money, and then the last five who have not been drawn will actually have access to the same resources? So if there's no state guarantee, then what's the guarantee? That's not quite clear. At the same time, it was nice to say that this construction is because the new apartments, I think, said they contribute eight times to GDP and thus to the performance of the economy. I can't argue with that because I don't have that kind of data. But the question is, what will be the indicator of this system? How it contributes to GDP or how many families can make use of it? If the families are important and what you claim is true, this should not be the primary consideration of the extent to which they contribute to GDP and the proportion to which they can strengthen the economy, but of which, in the case of the purchase of real estate, there is a greater chance that families will have access to it. However, if the statement that Mr Vantara has said is true that, based on the CSOK experience so far, there is a much greater demand for used property, then we should reopen this subject and not accept it within a day, but discuss it. If there is a unanimous opinion here, and there is the opinion in several political groups that yes, family support is important, yes, home creation is important, and yes, although a lot of people are still debating this, because many people argue on Western European or American examples about the importance of property ownership, I also agree with you that yes, it is very, very important. But it doesn't matter when and how and under what conditions a family can get it; whether everyone has equal access to it, whether everyone has a chance. The most important thing that has been mentioned so far is basically, and I ask Mr Secretary of State to forgive me for coming back on a little political issue, unlike the specific proposal, this is about how the government's current policy can settle wages. Because the impact of these subsidies is essential, because at the moment we are not just Áfarekorders, but also in terms of labour wages, since they are so high that very, very few of them can reach the citizens and receive very little of the goods they produce from the bank, which is why they need it. [[12.40]] Wouldn't it be more appropriate to have this whole support system after you and the Prime Minister have repeatedly told us that the civilian government is important to return the masses of people working for hire? Should it not be facilitated that a substantial reduction in wage contributions does not require families to receive such different social benefits or subsidies? Is there no other solution and opportunity to achieve the same effect and not to be dependent on support and not to be uncertain, but to have the family's own money to take these steps? This simply requires more income, it requires that the average income should not be 140 thousand HUF gross, but multiples, so that they can finance it. If this were to be the case, there would not be a need for a large central collection and then a system of redistribution with some kind of security background, but it would be possible to function in practice that in society, as is basically the case in welfare societies, industrious people move forward in their own regulatory way, and as a result of their work, they can cope one by one with the other. Right now, it's about basically collecting money into a central source, and we're trying to redistribute it in a system that's not very fair, not very secure, to serve some purpose. And the problem is that the reality and honesty of this goal are always called into question, because we see something completely different when we talk about how families can have more children, how young people get home, and how we see something different when we talk about what GDP will be and how the process itself contributes to the performance of the economy. I think, Mr Secretary, that it would be worth a common thought on this whole subject, and it is a really big mistake to make a decision in one day to hear from the press what is going on in the Legislative Committee and to look at what we are going to discuss today, because there is no right time to discuss this in substance. I think it would be a good thing if you could withdraw this proposal, give us time to put it in the best way possible, and later, even this year or the first half of this year, this would come back so that it would not trigger such feelings and emotions as we have seen during this debate. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[It's a rare applause from Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2016-03-17-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The consolidated debate is closed. I will ask Mr Secretary of State if he wishes to speak on behalf of the rapporteur. [[Csaba Dömötör nods.]] Mr. Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, has the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-17-71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We were discussing a tool here today, the national home-building community, which finalises the government's home-building programme launched in January. The launch of this home creation programme was timely because during the period behind us - let's say, the period of foreign exchange loans - the number of new homes, the number of new houses were extremely low, mostly the debt of families increased, and no new apartments were built. This instrument is also important because, in the past, when the state supported savings for housing purposes, it was typically done through the housing savings banks, and most of them were renovated by the Hungarian population and no new apartments were built. The essence of the home creation community is that the Hungarian state wants to support savings for housing purposes. In this context, members shall undertake to pay a specified amount at a pre-specified rate. In addition to saving, the community will advance those it selects. This selection can be made through a bid or by a draw. In the case of the lottery, it is important to mention that the order of the apartments is not the lot, but the order of access to the apartment. They're not the same thing. As far as public engagement is concerned, the State wants to support housing savings and therefore provides support. The total amount of the aid is 30 per cent of the annual payments, but not more than 300 thousand forints per year. This is therefore higher than the amount of housing savings funds. Despite all the other accusations, the support will not be given to the organizers, not to companies, but to Hungarian citizens who have house savings. It is an important fact, not to be avoided, that in the community home creation model, the family home creation discount that has already been launched can be used, and in addition, savings in housing savings can be used. It is important that very strict guarantees were included in the bill. The organizers, the organizers of the home-building communities, must have a basic capital of HUF 100 million, and they must also provide a reserve of 3 percent. Managers, managers of home-building communities, are subject to extremely strict conflict of interest rules. Members are required to provide property insurance for the property they purchase. In addition, the Magyar Nemzeti Bank controls not only the authorisation but also the operation significantly and continuously. Here, in the previous debate, it was said that the government should take into account other previous experiences when discussing this proposal, such as experience in the angelic field or experiences before 2010. We reject that. We reject it because the socialists have already demonstrated how to abolish a well-functioning home creation programme. I would like to remind them once again - that if they follow the events online, because unfortunately they are not in the room at the moment - that the well-functioning home creation programme was abolished earlier. While Péter Medgyessy said that he wanted to continue in 2002, in 2003, he said that there was not enough funding, that only foreign sources could finance it. After that, the home creation system was virtually abolished and unlimited foreign exchange lending was allowed, with foreign exchange loans increasing to HUF 3000 billion between 2004 and 2010. All this meant that hundreds of thousands of people were trapped in a debt trap. The government had to remedy this situation with bank accountability. Finally, let me say that with this community of home creation, the government's new home creation programme will be completed. As is known, this is not the only tool used to help the government access the new apartment. In the past, the VAT on new apartments decreased from 27 to 5 percent. Families with multiple children with three children can receive up to HUF 10 million for the construction of new homes or houses. This can be complemented by a state-funded loan of HUF 10 million for the three children. In addition, State aid for used dwellings has increased significantly. And it is an important fact that these subsidies can also be used by public workers, by those who live in more modest financial conditions. The authorisation procedures are also simplified, and it doesn't take months for someone to move into an otherwise completed house. These measures, which have a high level of support for Hungarian families, support these measures by four fifths of society. Similarly, it is thought that it is a good opportunity for young people to improve their housing conditions. The national home-building community is an opportunity for the state to support those who have house-saving savings. This is an opportunity, and the Hungarian families will be free to decide which means of the home creation program they use, the CSOK, the VAT reduction or the home creation community. There are many things the government expects from the home creation program. It expects more new homes to be owned, more new houses to be owned, more economic growth, more jobs to be created, and, not least, we expect more children to be born in the future thanks to these measures. Based on the few hours of debate that we have left behind, I think that everyone can agree with these goals, so it may not be too much to ask all parliamentary parties to wholeheartedly support the bill before us. We expect everyone's support; we believe that home creation is a national matter, a national matter that is beyond the parties. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-17-72	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform this House that the decisions will take place on our sitting today. Now it's 12:49. I'll take a 13-hour break, and we'll continue our work at 13:00 with decisions. [[Break: from 12.49 p.m. to 13.03 p.m.President: Dr. János LatorcaiJánosJohns: Dr. Lajos Szűcs and István Ikotity]]
u2016-03-17-73	Ladies and gentlemen, Welcome to all of you. We will continue our work with decisions. Please take your seats, make sure your cards are properly placed in the voting machines. It follows the T/9291 Convention between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/9291 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 158 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. I would like to inform you that the Committee on Foreign Affairs has decided that the T/9298 Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Mongolia on the visa waiver of their nationals with diplomatic and service/official passports is being published. It intends to hold a detailed debate as a committee on the legislative proposal No 1 and therefore the final vote will not take place at this meeting. We now have T/9299 on the amendment of certain laws concerning dog breeding. Final vote of bill No 1. However, in the light of a request for action, we must also decide to maintain a proposal for an amendment. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, Jobbik's group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Zoltán Magyar and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Jobbik Group proposed that Amendment 2 be maintained. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Zoltán Magyar and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 45 votes in favour, 111 against and 2 abstentions. As the Parliament did not maintain a proposal for an amendment, nor did the amendment summarised for the proposal, we decided on the text of the bill submitted in the final vote. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/9299 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 111 votes in favour, 47 against and without abstentions. It follows a series of T/9538 on the recovery cost balance. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. I would like to remind you that, according to our decision yesterday, the bill will be discussed by Parliament with a derogation from house rules. T/9538/5 and T/9538/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/9538/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 155 votes to one, with 2 votes against and 1 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/9538 accepts it. The text of the proposed amendment, as amended by the summary amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amended bill with 155 votes in favour, no votes against, with two abstentions. Dear Parliament, Next up is the T/9660 on national home-building communities. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. I would remind you that, according to our decision yesterday, the bill is being discussed in an exceptional procedure by the Parliament. T/9660/4 - T/9660/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/9660/4. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 113 votes in favour, 46 against and without abstentions. [[13.10]] It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/9660 accepts it. The text of the proposed amendment, as amended by the summary amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the amended bill by 113 votes in favour, 46 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Now, by the LMP Group, the Justice Committee 6/2014-2018. IUB. Ü/9367. We shall decide on a request submitted to the European Parliament. I would like to remind you that yesterday the Parliament has already negotiated this. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Ü/9367 proposed by the LMP. Request No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not accept the request with 44 affirmative votes, 113 negative votes and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We now decide on the inclusion of a series of proposals. I would like to remind you that yesterday, these negotiations were already held by the Parliament. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles on certain government measures needed by the Member of the Tóth Bertalan MSZP and his fellow Members to provide non-refundable energy efficiency development resources for the population, H/8285. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament has not included the proposal for a resolution in a series of 46 affirmative votes, 111 negative votes and two abstentions. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles by representatives of the Tóth Bertalan and Józsa István MSZP on the implementation of the 2013 LIV on the implementation of reductions in oil and gas prices on the world market. T/8527. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the bill with 47 yeses, 111 with no votes and no abstentions. I ask the House, my fellow Members, whether it will be included in a series of articles on the introduction of basic voluntary military training by our better fellow Member and fellow Members of the predecessor of Novak, H/8660. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not take the proposal for a resolution into consideration 26 yes, 132 with no vote and no abstention. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions. We are now taking a two-minute technical break in order to allow my fellow Members to leave the Chamber and then continue our work. [[It's a short break.]] [[In the notary seat Dr. Lajos Szűcs will be replaced by József Attila Móring.]] I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats so that we can continue to work. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. The 1997 LXXVIII on the shaping and protection of the built environment follows. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/9369. On the parliamentary IT network, it is available to all of them. First, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Csepreghy, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, who will give his speech from here on the platform within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[It's a lot of noise.]] Just a moment, Mr. Secretary. My fellow Members, the Secretary of State would like to say his expo. I'm asking you to let anyone who wants to leave this room leave and allow the Secretary of State's exposure to speak. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-17-74	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, Allow me to begin with a quote from Wass Albert, which says home is where you get home. Where you know the wears of the wall, the stains of the carpet, the small squeaks of the furniture. Where you lie in bed, not just sleeping, but resting. You're not just resting, you're resting. You rest life, people, everything. Where you're at home is home. It won't take much. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It really doesn't take much, and the government's goal is to set a minimum of a strict, engineering approach to creating buildings that are truly suitable for home creation. The Hungarian government's primary goal is to give as many Hungarian families as possible access to their own homes, so we have already taken a number of measures to this end. As you know, in recent months we have reduced the tax on housing, extended the family home-building discount and presented a bill on national home-building communities. This line includes a reduction in the bureaucracy of construction, aimed primarily at supporting residential construction, including the promotion of large families and rural construction. According to the government's interpretation, the service provider, customer-centred, modern building and quality architecture is realised if the rules are designed in the primary interests of the citizen and the client. On 1 January this year, the provisions of the Construction Act, which laid down significantly simpler rules for the establishment of all new residential buildings with a useful surface area of 300 square meters, compared to the practice of previous governments, entered into force. The January amendments allowed the construction process of such buildings to be accelerated and simplified. The purpose of the legislative amendment, which has just been submitted, is to ensure that in the simple and accelerated regulatory environment, the municipal, value-protection and technical aspects are applied, in order to supplement the rules for the construction of new residential buildings with a total of 300 square metres of useful floor space in order to ensure the design and protection of the built environment. [[13.20]] We are talking about amendments that were initiated here in Parliament by the opposition, among other things, when it drew the government's attention to the possible dangers associated with the reduction of bureaucracy. In order to create a home, to implement valuable architectural plans, it does not take much, but it is necessary to know precisely both the builder and the executioner - and here from design to completion of the last professional work - so all participants need to know what the minimum expectation of what the authorities are saying is. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, This proposal strengthens local construction authorities and gives them additional authority. T/9369. Legislative proposal No.3 increases the number of provisions of the Local Construction Code to be taken into account even in the construction of residential buildings below 300 sq m. For example, consideration should be given to the number of buildings that can be built on a given plot and the number of inhabitants, sanitation requirements according to public health considerations or national and local townscape, world heritage and monument protection aspects. These standards also include important public health, environmental and nature protection guarantees. Architectural design has always been a highly professional and responsible activity. The relationship between construction families and architects is a system of trust. Government intention is that the state withdraws from the bureaucratic overgrowth in the area of the licensing of family houses. This amendment does not include any new responsibilities, but only the existing responsibilities and roles are clearly defined and the criteria are defined. Therefore, the role of the design and construction contract will be clarified and the proposal states that construction activities can only be carried out on the basis of construction documentation with a simple announcement. The proposal contains a conceptually new element, the institution of compulsory design management, which was the long-standing desire of the architect profession. The creative architects responsible for the quality of our built environment have always wanted to follow through on the implementation of their plans, ensuring quality implementation. This proposal gives us the opportunity to do so. The Prime Minister's Office is committed to the implementation of high-quality architecture and modern construction, and has therefore conducted continuous and intensive consultations with the Hungarian Architect Chamber on this issue. In order to protect both designer architects and builders' families, it is government's intention to become general and standard practice in design liability insurance that is already present in today's bud. Accordingly, we will develop mandatory planning liability insurance rules. This requires a large part regulation at government level, but we need to establish its legislative leg now. I would also like to talk about kaláka, because domestic home creation is not possible, it has not been in the past, and it will not be possible in the future without the involvement of various friends. In order to facilitate the spread of domestic construction, the detailed rules for the construction activities carried out for itself or for the relative are now referred to in the Government Decree instead of the previous legislation. At the level of the Government Decree, the submission of amendments to the government decrees relating to simple filing, which are already under administrative consultation, details the cases of domestic execution that may be carried out. Not only in the case of construction of residential buildings below 300 square meters, but also in general, it is common to expand and clarify cases of illegal and unprofessional construction activities. With this proposal, we declare war on everyone who consciously evades the law and builds it so that I can finally obtain a survival permit. We're gonna put an end to this loophole so that anyone can ask for a survival permit in any case. Maintenance permits may be granted only and only on an objective basis. Overall, the bill before you accelerates the process of construction, while guaranteeing the protection of both the natural and the built environment. Thank you very much for your attention and I call on this House to support this amendment. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-17-75	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Sándor Hadházy. Here you go.
u2016-03-17-76	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, On 15 December 2015, the Parliament adopted a bill amending certain laws in the context of economic growth, including a reduction of the VAT on housing to 5% and a significant simplification of the construction rules. This was done in the spirit of cutting red tape, and it was necessary because my fellow Members know that the Hungarian construction rules are legendarily complex and strict, which often make it unduly difficult and prolong the construction of a simple family house. Let me remind you that, on the basis of the proposal at that time, the construction authorisation procedure was terminated for all new residential buildings with a useful floor area of up to 300 sq m. In this case, the obligation to carry out construction activities is limited to the notification, as stated in the law. In the design and construction of a new residential building with a floor area of less than 300 m2 only the requirements of the local construction regulations shall be taken into account. It was easier to issue an official certificate for such buildings free of charge. The construction activity may be started 15 days after the notification. The proposal also stated at the time that, on the basis of further amendments to the simple notification, there was no place for the municipal, opinionary and municipal picture procedure. However, even then, the law text stated that construction legislation must be complied with in architectural engineering design and construction construction. Furthermore, the legislation laid down that, in order not to leave the buildings unfinished or delayed, the legislator would introduce remuneration depending on the duration of the construction or impose a demolition obligation if the building was not built within 10 years of the notification. Thanks to the relaxation of the rules, we do not have to wait months for authorisation, and by reducing the VAT on housing, construction itself has become cheaper. This also contributes to boosting the economy, building and creating jobs. However, in the situation that has arisen as a result of reducing the rigour of the construction licensing rules, we have received feedback from the profession and the local authorities, on the basis of which we need to rethink the local government's municipal image protection tool system, because, of course, no one wants to be able to abuse the simplified rules and, without taking all aspects into account, to build on its own property or even outside. Nor would anyone like houses that are not suitable for settlements to appear massally in the settlements. To this end, a separate law should be drawn up on the subject of settlement and local protection, which will be drawn up in advance in consultation with society. The proposal complements the rules for the construction of new residential buildings with a maximum surface area of 300 sq m in the design and protection of the built environment. Accordingly, the proposal also sets out the criteria for the establishment of compulsory design management, as well as the requirements which fundamentally define and ensure the local order of construction, the drainage, the building, the housing number and the protection provisions as the rules to be observed during construction and planning. One of the most important elements of the draft is that it requires compulsory liability insurance at government regulation level. [[13.30]] This is necessary in the context of the restructuring of the responsibilities system for construction activities in order to maintain professional guarantees and to ensure that design and construction responsibilities are effective. Moreover, this liability insurance has already been required by credit institutions if the builder has used bank credit. For areas intended for installation and not intended for installation, the legislation sets out a uniform set of requirements. The number of buildings on the construction site and the number of individual units of destination should be avoided from overloading the environment. The proposal ensures compliance with the rules on waste water treatment and cleaning in areas affected by protection and restrictions in terms of public health, healthy and sustainable living conditions, the protection of nature, the environment, surface and groundwater. The law also states that design and construction may take place taking into account the protection provisions of the local construction regulations. This will enable a coordinated implementation of architectural, archaeological, environmental, nature conservation and landscape protection aspects. The proposal states that in the case of construction of a building of less than 300 square meters, the builder is obliged to entrust architects with design management. The rules on the liability of the builder will be clarified, including in the case of construction activities which may be carried out with simple notification. This will ensure that, in the case of the construction of such houses, the implementation of the notification is technically guaranteed. Furthermore, the responsibility of the architectural technical designer, who will receive the remuneration provided for in the Government Decree, will be increased. An important provision is that those who are not entitled to carry out contractor activity may carry out construction work only under the conditions laid down therein for their own or related purposes. By adopting the proposal, the construction monitoring authority shall prohibit the continuation of construction work in the absence of a construction log. The cases of illegal construction activities are also expanding and becoming more precise, given the simple announcement. The provision concerning unprofessional construction activities also takes into account cases related to simple notification related to local construction regulations. The case of survival is added in respect of buildings which are subject to simple announcement but which have been unlawfully or unlawfully implemented. At the same time, the possibility to apply for a maintenance permit shall cease to exist in any event where the irregularity is not in breach of the public interest, or the infringement of interest may be eliminated within the time limit set by the Authority. Maintenance permits may be granted only and only on an objective basis. The bill will enter into force on the eighth day following its publication, but an exception is the submission of a simple notification only electronically, which will only be introduced from 1 July 2016. Dear House, I think it is in all our interests to find the most optimal regulation in the field of construction, which does not make the authorisation procedure and construction unbearable, but does not allow irresponsible, unprofessional construction. The establishment of such regulation is a process in which we must react sensitively to the feedback of the profession and citizens. It is also a point of view that the municipalities should continue to have adequate tools in their hands to ensure that the optimal image of the settlement is preserved and that they can define the areas to which it can be built. The proposal before us serves these objectives well, so I would like to ask you to support the proposal in the vote as well. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-17-77	Thank you, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Csaba Tóth. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-03-17-78	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, As my fellow Member has just mentioned, Parliament adopted, in an exceptional procedure on 15 December 2015, a bill amending certain laws in the context of economic growth. This salad law also included amendments to the law on the formation and protection of the built environment. The hasty, inadequately thought-out amendment of the law has also resulted in the result, since it is almost more than two months after its adoption that the regulation that has been broken has to be dealt with. Under the modified construction law, the rules have been simplified. The MSZP faction already stated in the parliamentary debate that the content of the bill is contrary to the provisions of the Fundamental Law on the protection of the environment. The construction of residential buildings smaller than 300 square meters of useful floor space will be subject to new rules from 1 January 2016. On this basis, a number of things should not be taken into account in the notified construction process as part of the provisions of the local construction rules, the law establishes which provisions should be applied only in such cases. At the time, we claimed that this was against the basic law, as environmental protection does not play a prominent role in the construction process, the level of environmental protection achieved is reduced, thus the regulation violates Article XXI of the Fundamental Law. Article 2 (1) (a) This was also indicated by letter to President János Áder before the publication of the law, then at the beginning of January 2016 to the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. These initiatives seem to have resulted in results, because the current amendment means that environmental rules must now be respected for constructions subject to a simple announcement. Perhaps one of the biggest flaws of the amendment to the law adopted in December was that almost everyone can build whatever they want under 300 square meters of useful floor space. It doesn't matter if the new building fits into the cityscape, it doesn't matter what the environment is, and it doesn't matter what the neighbors think. The essence of the rather short text is that the construction of houses with up to 300 square meters of useful floor space does not require the construction authorisation process to date, so from now on everyone is building it and building it any way they want. That's not something the construction department or the head architect can say, but not even the local mayor. We can now build a 5-bedroom mini condo a few meters from the neighbor who has nothing to do with this. If we want to build, it's enough to announce 15 days before now, upload the plans to the Internet administration system, and start building. Fortunately, under the current proposal, there is a significant increase in the scope of the mandatory conditions to be taken into account when building a new legal institution, a building built on the basis of a simple notification procedure; of course, not as the Secretary of State said, this will only be extended in comparison with the December Act. Local governments that have long been torn apart in their rights will not be able to enforce their urban aspects. They may want to change something with this amendment, although there is no explicit provision in the bill. However, the last paragraph of the general justification points out that, in the absence of a construction permit, it is necessary to put the municipal protection system of the local government in a new form, so that a separate law should be drawn up in the area of settlement image and local protection, which will be drawn up in advance in consultation with society. That's the good news in this, I mean, there's going to be a meeting. There has been no social consultation in this area either before or now. In order to facilitate the proliferation of domestic construction activities, details of the construction activities carried out for itself or for the relative are referred to by the bill as government regulation. This provision means each and every one of you, as well as the clever-handed relative of the Ket. may be built on the part of its relatives. It is not debatable that there is a long tradition of relatives and friends helping out with a construction project in our country. We can't be satisfied with what we find in the bill right now. Under the legislative law, an implementing act, namely the regulatory framework of the Government Decree, must be included in the law. [[13.40]] It should at least provide for the types of work that can be carried out in this way, under what essential conditions. However, we cannot rely on a good neighbor and friend, but only a family member of the law. In the future, the granting of a survival permit will not be subject to any breach of the public interest of the construction site. There is hardly any doubt that sometimes the unprofessional nature of a construction can, for example, violate the public interest beyond asset security. Finally, let us also talk about the most interesting and problematic amendment. On this basis, the rule that professional construction work may be carried out only by those who have a statutory professional qualification or part-qualified in accordance with the pursuit of the activity concerned. It can be seen that there is a huge shortage of skilled workers in the construction sector. The government wants to cut the Gordian knot with that amendment, because if there is no more skilled labour, it does not provide replacement, it does not provide it, but says that it is no longer necessary. The question arises whether, if this can be done in the construction sector, this solution will be applied in other areas as well. So, for example, will there be no need for qualified health care workers? The Hungarian Socialist Party is not in favour of patching the regulation that has been carried over by force, but which has been corrupted, because of what has been said. And speaking of environmental protection, the built environment and its protection, allow me, Mr Secretary, to mention an event today. Today the Battle of the City Park began in Budapest, and the destruction of Europe's first public park began. Let us remember that two and a half years ago, Parliament also adopted a law with record speed that greatly affected the construction possibilities of an area. This is about City Park, which was then given to an unknown company for 99 years free of charge. This is Városliget Zrt., now known. This is Városliget Zrt. today, he started construction in the Liget, but not with the demolition of buildings, as promised, but with the cutting-up of trees, on the basis of a consent on the basis of a logging permit issued yesterday on 16 March by the 5th district office of the Budapest Capital Government Office, which is suspended for one day, so it may be seen today that the decision can be implemented immediately without appeal, and the appeal does not have any suspensory effect on the execution of the decision. In this regard, the machines started today, and these 40 trees began to be cut down. The work stopped, of course, because civil activists prevented it, and we are in trouble right now. I just wanted to say that this is what a law is worth, that's what it's worth when we talk about regulation, and we're talking about protecting built and other environments, and we're talking about environmental protection, because if we have to, these rules will be overwritten in almost a day, and then it's not important to protect the environment or the built environment. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-03-17-79	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr István Apáti. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-03-17-80	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, We consider that this proposal we have just put forward is trying to create a healthy or healthier state of equilibrium compared to previous extreme conditions and rules, or up to 300 square meters of the other extreme, to be virtually unlimited for everyone to do what they want compared to the type of regulation. Between the two, maybe he's trying to take a golden middle road. At the same time, I think that lifestyle is the standard of everything, so let's recall, who has had a family-married construction, that the next few minutes will be very familiar with how a family-married construction, a construction works, takes place in practice. If you are so lucky that you can buy a building site that is fully crafted, i.e. wired gas, electricity, the possibility of connecting to the municipal water and sewage system, there is a huge advantage compared to those where, say, one or more public utilities are missing, as this already creates a huge time requirement, a time requirement and a significant cost surplus. So there is a lot of preparatory work to be done here before the actual implementation is started. At the same time, I think it is important to point out that in many cases construction starts with the zeroth phase, the demolition, as it is common for builders to buy land with a smaller or larger area or air cubic meter housing. First of all, this needs to be broken. I would like to suggest to the Secretary of State that it would also be worth a significant reduction in the details of the breakdown, since either the obligation to notify or the obligation to grant a demolition permit is linked to a floor area or to an air cubic meter, which should be mitigated to the fullest possible extent. As far as the disposal and treatment of waste is concerned, we should have plenty to do here too. I'm not a designer, I don't have a technical degree, but I don't really think about why an abscess is a dangerous substance, for example. In the case of the demolition of old katarac buildings, we can see that the cataract from which a large number of residential buildings have been built for centuries has been classified with the slate or similar hazardous material. Some of them are hundreds of years old, in excellent condition, without polluting their surroundings, and never a threat to the inmates. So I do not know why, for example, such pointless rules could not be significantly mitigated. Not to mention not only demolition costs, not to mention transport costs, but also amazing waste storage costs. Thousands of forints per cubic meter, up to 6-7 thousand forints per cubic metre, can cost a cubic meter of waste or construction debris, which already imposes a lot of unnecessary administrative obligations and a lot of financial obligations on builders in the zeroth phase of construction. On this zeroth stage, it would be worth considering, since there is already a lot of unplanned or under-planned costs for the builders of the family house. If all these obstacles have been overcome by the builders, then the landscaping, levelling, foundations can begin, and then the professional works will follow. Indeed, an untenable, completely pointless, self-destructive regulation was that at least 78 laws and other government regulations had to be observed and enforced. In my opinion, even the most professional designers, the authorities, were not fully aware of all the regulations. Well, how would you have been aware of the simple citizen who couldn't figure it out in the sea of law! It was too much, it was unnecessary and pointless, it is true, especially when, in the case of construction, the need for modifications to certain construction plans is not often raised, because after the start of the physical work, it turns out that reasonableness requires something else, not in terms of construction, not in terms of basic architectural standards, but still had to be allowed, and that circles had to be run to contribute to it. In fact, if someone wanted to speed up because the builder usually suffers from a time disadvantage, then even these builders were able to take these decisions to the neighbors, the neighbors gave up their right to appeal, and so it was possible to win several weeks, up to 1 - 1.5 months, compared to waiting for mailing and other deadlines. Unfortunately, in our small country, it is common, especially in the countryside, that, in a more fortunate case, in the country, one of the more remote parts of the country, the neighbours moved abroad, and at that time either the mailing or the personal request even increased these time requirements, and even further pulled off the actual start of the construction. And if the building permit had to be modified, then this circle had to be run again, and every time this need for modification arose, there were so many unnecessary circles for the builders. In addition, this may have resulted in annual or half-yearly delays in terms of weather difficulties, which were very detrimental not only to the time factor, but also financially, either in labour fees, especially in the case of price increases in building materials. Therefore, this had to be changed. On the other hand, they fell on the other side of the horse when, to say the least, Antalek Rogán interrupted the normal operation of the fan, and not to such a small extent, they ruined, if you will, the normal operation of the fan, and brought another extreme into the system, that up to 300 square meters - I will make it very simple - the fair is free, the farmer is free, everyone does what they want to do in connection with architectural activity. On the one hand, 300 square meters alone is an exaggeration in our opinion, because a 150, but if I want to be very forgiving, I say that over 200 square meters of the upper middle class and the top ten thousand people can only build, because if we use a net construction cost of 200 thousand HUF/square meters, it can be significantly reduced by a very serious follow-up, but a builder with an average connection system can expect about this. [[13.50]] Not to mention garages, additional constructions, driveway, terrace, basement, other facilities, which are important components of the house, but not residential areas, not residential areas, then these costs will grow to an amazing size, tens of millions of HUF, so the 300 square meters were completely unjustified in this sense. If the border had been drawn around 120 or 150 square meters, it would have been much better suited to the Hungarian average, the average possibilities. However, I would add that this statement is only true if, say, a person starting a career or a young couple can provide significant parental support behind their backs, because today, the vast majority of young people in their 20s and 30s or middle-aged people can't start construction on their own. Either he is in debt slavery, or if he is lucky enough to be able to help parents, then they can only begin to build a family nest. So this 300 square meters is, as it is, a major overreach. Now, compared to the fact that we now see in the current legislation that the construction permit procedure and the simple announcement will be present at the same time, and in the case of simple notification, certain documentation must be drawn up, and at least the rules of the local construction code in the residential area, the boundaries of the zone, the rules of detachment, heritage, landscape, archaeological aspects, environmental aspects must be respected, it is already a real step forward in relation to what it wants to do, even because we would find it extremely unfortunate if local governments were to be forced to pay taxes and tax instruments in order in a possible chaos. So let's not force local governments to impose cheesy taxes, let's leave them with other, much more elegant and much fairer opportunities. As far as the rules on design liability insurance are concerned, this has caused some uncertainty or some tension in professional circles, the fact is that in the case of medium and large investments, in the case of public investments, especially where EU funds are involved in whole or in part, this is fully and fully justified. So far, this wasn't part of the rules for family-married constructions. We do not say that there is no logic in it, because it is indeed a liability insurance and insurance policy protected, whether it is the designer or the construction on the contractor's side that enhances everyone's sense of safety and comfort, but let us also consider that if we expect an average annual liability insurance fee of between HUF 150 and 250 thousand, this will significantly increase the costs of this, which obviously also has a direct impact on construction. As for the mandatory design management of residential buildings below 300 square meters, this is also welcome, since a qualified professional should supervise the construction process, even if the contractor will be the main responsible, but somehow bring this into line with the rules on the responsible technical manager. What coordinate system does the government imagine the two of them in relation to each other? How will design management and responsible technical management relate to each other? Whether I could ask this for family-married constructions, or for other, larger investments, because it is obvious that in a family-married construction, the two together are completely unnecessary, and if the management becomes mandatory, the responsible technical manager may become either in reality or out of control and out of the system. Obviously, this also needs to be followed by legislation. As far as mandatory export plans are concerned, there is likely to be rigid separation between the interests of architects and contractors, or at least at a certain point. If we push this to the most necessary reasonable level and require the preparation of the export design documentation only with the necessary detail, then I say that it is all right, but if we force the builders to make several hundred thousand forints per plan, each for hundreds of thousands of HUF extra cost building engineering, building electricity and static plans, I believe that it is beyond the healthy level. With regard to the static requirement, we also see that the designers are thinking beyond that particular safety bar, so they overssure it unnecessarily. Sometimes the feeling of building special military facilities is so strict. In particular, let us say, in the case of rules on concrete or ironing, we often see the requirement of high-quality concrete on the motorway, which is completely meaningless, houses built 20-30-40-50 years ago, are happy, without any structural defects, and will stand for another 50 years, either with much milder, less stringent requirements for their design and construction. I'd like to warn the government here to be careful. In a simple family house, in the vast majority of cases, it is unnecessary, let's say, to impose building engineering and building electricity plans, as I do not think that this is necessarily necessary in the case of a three-phase or even one-phase electric clock and in the case of an average basic electrical installation. This was previously required for installations above 300 square metres gross. It's all about gross. This was no longer too difficult, otherwise, to pass on to a contractor, where appropriate. So in this respect, I say that we should not unnecessarily place orders at the cost of the contractor to professional operators who are, of course, pleased with the need to carry out as much planning as possible, and we are only talking about planning, not actual physical implementation. At least in terms of building engineering and building electricity, this should be considered, especially when, let's say, a modern family house has at least two types of heating mode, we see that a gas, plumber or electrician with a secondary education with good professional experience can do a perfect job with full responsibility. I think it's unnecessary to make more stringent standards because they're stalling and increasing costs. I'd like to say a few more words about the kala. When we saw in various professional articles and submissions that building in kalaka will be possible again, we were very pleased, because we saw a very beautiful Hungarian tradition revived in this, and we are also enthusiastically in favour of it, but I would also like to point out that what is apparent from this proposal is forward-looking, but little. I am not saying this because the opposition always wants more, and not because we say that a good proposal is necessary, but it is not sufficient, but we should really go further on this path, if necessary at the cost of amending other legislation. This is not only about the qualifications of a relative or close relative who helps builders, but also about work organisation and labour control. The main issue here is not only what appropriate qualifications or traineeships do, say, covering or painting activities, but also the limit to which they can do so. Let's just say a mason's work or a carpenter's work is certain that I wouldn't dare entrust it to someone who doesn't have the right education and proper practice, as this will lead to no faults at all or only very difficult to repair, but let's say, in the case of covering, painting, work that doesn't affect the statical state of the building, especially when it comes to internal work, I believe that this can be entrusted to the builders and their relatives. But here, on the one hand, the circle should be widened, not necessarily just the circle of relatives. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] This should be pushed down, but also to a circle of friends and acquaintances, because the essence of this, Mr Secretary of State, is that people are mutually supportive of each other, and they can do so without having to fear of a labour fine, they should not be afraid of paying hundreds of thousands or millions of forints of fines, but they should be able to do so in the spirit of mutual assistance without risk of fines. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-17-81	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker for the LMP Group is Mr Sallai R. Benedek. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-03-17-82	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to correct Mr President's point of view that I do not feel like a keynote speaker; I am merely here to convey very briefly the position of our group, because if you ask me whether the proposal is good compared to the legislation adopted on 15 December 2015, then I say that it is good. Is the direction you wish to represent good? Then I'll say it's good. If you ask if we support you, then I say we do not support you this way, because it is still worse than the original regulation. I always have reservations about Fidesz-KDNP governance because of a lot of things, but the worst I can do is arrogance. Take a look at the minutes: in December 2015, a significant part of the current corrections in the general debate were expressed as opposition opinions. [[14.00]] In fact, there are some things that we have tried to do as environmental and urban image protection modifications, and nothing has happened in them. They've wiped out all the opinions. And now we have in front of us some of the things we said at the time in the general debate that we demanded at the time. After two months of operation, they realized that they were doing stupid things again, they didn't think about it again, we're victims of rushing legislation again, but the Fidesz government is coming to save the country and fix the mistakes. But how many times do we have to bring the same legislation back to Parliament within a year to make it good? Why can't a normal piece of legislation create such an architectural code? In principle, our view is that the changes that are now included in the proposal show a positive direction towards greater safety compared to the legislation adopted in December 2015. But it still doesn't create the security that would be enough to protect the city, and all the noble goals that either Secretary of State or Chief Speaker of Fidesz has said. They are not, in themselves, able to bring environmental, but mainly nature conservation-related, additional safeguards into the construction system. There are very, very many government goals, and these goals obviously conflict very, very much. If the volume of new construction properties is to increase, the bureaucratic system that can hinder, impede or slow down must be broken down at some level. At the same time, if we want it not only to grow but also to reduce bureaucracy, then the direction that the legislation represented could have been good, but at the same time, in very, very many cases, it was a fundamental threat to settlement images. This is a problem because architectural regulations define the image of a settlement for hundreds of years - literally up to a hundred years. Therefore, assignment of a kind that the Parliament did in December could certainly pose a threat. What it is necessary to say and what I propose to the government for consideration: the extra collateral that they wish to achieve in the design process, either with the nature of the planning mandatory liability insurance or with the extra export or technical control activity, will not the costs of those who have built it again substantially increase the costs of the contractors without having the desired effect, the extra positive that would increase and improve the construction of new buildings... - possibly to hold back. Doesn't that mean extra costs? After all, the working time and participation of these technicians, as well as the cost of insurance, will always be achieved by the consumer somewhere. Overall, we believe that the proposal improves the legislation adopted in December, but it is not enough, and that the previous regulation has still provided much more guarantees for achieving the environmental objectives and the municipal targets than it is now. For this reason, we will not be able to support it, and we will probably recognise by abstaining that it improves the current situation. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-03-17-83	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. This would be an opportunity for independent representatives to speak, but this will not be done, because an independent Member is not in the Chamber at the moment. It's a two-minute speech. I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, notary of the Parliament, from the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2016-03-17-84	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Actually, I'd like to come up with a thought and ask you a question. I hope you'll answer it as you go along. On 15 December 2015, that salad law fundamentally rearranged things, and the appeal for this remodeling turned out to be two-and-a-half, three months later, to bring the issues of the construction environment to the walls of the House again. It can be seen that there is positive progress compared to that, but compared to what was before 15 December 2015, we are in a far more disadvantaged position. We can even think about environmental issues here, the Fundamental Law XXI. 1 (1) (adapted) §2 and many other things. Don't you think that when you talk about what progress is being made in a keynote speech or anything else, while this is a step backwards from a state three months ago or less, then it's basically a denial of the truth? But that's not my question. My question is, in fact, that the number of skilled workers, who are effectively and actively involved in the construction of, say, family houses, has decreased significantly in Hungary in the past few years. Now they bring the kind of relief that, in a sense, is accompanied by very high risk factors when the need for professional work is virtually limited. Is that okay? - so I don't go any further. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-03-17-85	Thank you, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Nándor Csepreghy, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Nándor Csepreghy: Yes.]] I give you the floor. I'll wait for him to put the microphone on. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-17-86	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President, and the honourable Members for the contributions I have considered constructive. Allow me to start with a further picture. When there is a fundamental economic activity in the country, which is confirmed not only by the government, but also by market players and various financial analysts, then there is a budgetary cover to start a programme with which everyone can take a step forward in Hungary. A very important aspect of this progress is that families can get their own homes. However, this question is not just about architecture, it is not just about architecture, although it is really a very important question. And here I also agree with what the LMP and Jobbik have said, that the built environment that we leave behind as a quasi-historical heritage, how its regulators define the public reflection on the political environment that will qualify us. As we look back on the then decision-makers about the buildings built during the millennium, how and how they will remember us in a hundred years' time. [[In the notary seat István Ikotity will be replaced by Nándor Gúr.]] We believe that creating a home is basically an objective which, of course, defines not only young people, but, in principle, young people, and can be a truly tangible answer to a problem that we are discussing here within and outside the walls of Parliament regularly, namely the migration of young people. If we ask young people who are working overseas today in Western Europe or, as the case may be, overseas, then most of them say that the basic reason for this is to come home to Hungary after existential conditions where they can create a home for their family, and basically start a family with a certain existence. On this issue, the fact that there are sources of economic growth that enable the CSOK to be launched, allow for VAT relief in terms of construction, allow the establishment of a national home-building community, are all autonomous initiatives whose success can only be achieved if the rules on construction as bureaucratic obstacles do not make it impossible to operate this system, in which the question is not only about where and how this type of property is built, but also about what kind of regulatory environment it is necessary to comply with in this respect. With regard to construction rules, I can't imagine a condition in which we fully regulate construction rules for years in advance without having to touch them. I do not find it problematic for Parliament to deal with issues from month to month or on a quarterly basis that point in the direction that builders, i.e. those who order family houses or properties to be enlarged, renovated, supplemented, should face a much smaller administration. I accept this criticism, that it may be based on the fact that the pendulum is hanging too much, and compared to an excessive bureaucratic regulation, a government intention to break it down sometimes goes beyond the limits that the profession considers acceptable, but that is precisely why or why the Prime Minister's Office has consulted the Hungarian Architect's Chamber several times in recent months, as with the professional community of architects, and we have been able to present to Parliament today a position that reflects not only politics but also the opinion of this professional community. In this system of rules, we are not annihilating any previous rules that builders had to comply with. [[14.10]] We're just regulating and clarifying the relationship between who's responsible for this. In addition to planning, there is also a responsible organisation, an engineer who will accompany the development of the project throughout the entire life cycle of construction and thus take away the responsibility of the builder, which, in our view, appeared to the families in the subsequent breakdown of a construction that did not comply with local rules and in the associated financial burden, among other things, a significant step forward. In addition, the removal of all bureaucratic obstacles with this liability insurance is essentially the architect who will accompany you through the construction process. Of course, this will have to be established in a later rule. We are talking about bringing in a legislative mandate, after which the development of these detailed rules can already be resolved at the level of a government decree, and therefore there is an easier administration on the building site, i.e. 10 million Hungarians and 3 million Hungarian families. And the one who does this profession, this is his professionalism, and then he has to do this job, and for that, he's entitled to a decent salary. Allow me, Mr President, to respond to specific comments for a few thoughts. For example, the point that Mr Apáti said in relation to the pre-built demolition procedures in relation to the constructions, because there is a need for simplification here, and we will do so at the level of the government decree. Indeed, a significant cost-saving factor could be that construction rules are much more orderly, subject to much fewer permits. This should be regulated at government regulation level. Now, with the framework law, we are essentially creating a legal basis for this, and all the unnecessary red tape that is already on the pre-built demolition process, which is worth breaking down, is important in this respect, and really must be broken down. By suggesting that I do not agree that the property of 300 square meters is too large, because, as you say, for the lower and middle class social groups, it is 100-150 meters of real estate that is accepted. The Government of Hungary must serve the interests of all Hungarian people, and in Hungary there are indeed many people living in a difficult line, living under better financial conditions, and there are also rich people. We do not think that we have a responsibility to punish anyone because he lives in better financial conditions and, if necessary, builds a 300 - square - meter property. But it is very important to note that in rural Hungary, which you always consider as a reference, multigenerational family homes reach the 300 square meter property limit that you consider to be the property of the upper middle class or the above social groups. So we are not of the same opinion in this regard. As regards the supervising engineer and the technical engineer, we are talking about such a fundamental difference that as long as the responsible technical manager sits on the side of the contractor in this game, the supervising engineer must represent the interests of the builder. It will also need to be regulated at government decision level as to the cost of this and the frequency of this, how and how the supervisory engineer's involvement in the construction process should take place. If all guarantees are given by the contractor, i.e. on the side of the construction family, and there is any dispute over non-compliance with local rules, then the liability insurance was given to the supervising engineer to take over the costs. I'm sorry, I'm trying to answer all the questions that have been raised. Whether work can be done without professional qualifications. This was raised by Mr Csaba Tóth, and this also refers to Mr Gúr's question at some level. According to the government's plans, the involvement of unskilled builders or builders can only be done by having a qualified person at every type of work and by people who do not have a professional qualification, but who are involved in the process of carrying out the work themselves. By the way, we think that a large number of professionals with professional qualifications can be brought home from abroad, where appropriate, by a type of housing boom, which is a measure of the three measures that will be implemented by the creation of CSOK, the VAT reduction or the national community for home creation, or by reducing bureaucracy, really creates the opportunity for them to find not only the work but also decent wages for work in Hungary. I accept the criticisms that concern the fact that this legislation will not settle this issue for ever. The fundamental aspect of this legislation is that if we can give families the opportunity to get their own homes in a favourable economic environment, this should not be an obstacle to bureaucracy. In addition, a set of rules should be put in place where, in addition to environmental protection, building heritage protection rules, we are also aware of the visual heritage that we leave behind for the generations that follow us: will they talk about us as visual converters of the Kádár cubes, or about political generations who have not added to Hungary's visual environment, built heritage, or at worst have not corrupted it? I think that this bill can be a step forward in this respect, and I also think that if further amendments are needed for this at a later stage, the government will bring this back to Parliament even if it is not due for a few months. Because I think that it is precisely their job to deal with the challenges facing the country, just as the challenges are currently to be faced. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-17-87	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment may be submitted by 16:00 on Monday. The 2015 CV on debt settlement for natural persons now follows. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission submitted by Dénes Galambos and Imre Vas fideszes and our colleague Imre Vejkey KDNP T/9541. The Parliament's IT network is accessible to all. First, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the rapporteur on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-17-88	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The 2015 CV on the debt settlement of natural persons. Law created the introduction of private bankruptcy in Hungary, the procedure and legal framework for the removal of families from debt traps by 30 June 2015. The purpose of the law, stressed by the Christian Democrats, was to settle the debts of families with defaulted debts. Ladies and Gentlemen, T/9541. The purpose of the bill, tabled by my Opinion No.3 of the European Parliament, is to help family debtors and creditors by amending the private bankruptcy law in a small way. This small-scale amendment aims to extend the deadline of 1 March 2016 to 30 September 2016 at the initiative of debt settlement procedures that can be initiated under the first-stage rules. The amendment therefore also gives credit-payers a new opportunity to get out of the debt trap in a private bankruptcy procedure, who have so far not followed the relevant information, legal requirements and have therefore missed the deadlines for initiating the debt settlement procedure. Ladies and Gentlemen, If Parliament accepts the amendment of the law, then our citizens who have failed to set an earlier legislative deadline at the initiative of the procedure will also be able to initiate the procedure. The amendment of the law should also apply in pending cases in order not to reject claims for debt settlement which were submitted late but late under previous rules. Given that there are no legal obstacles to the continuation of forced sales by bank settlement laws in 2014 for a number of credit-debt families, it is in their interest that if they comply with the legal requirements of the private bankruptcy, they should initiate debt settlement and the associated bankruptcy protection as soon as possible. [[14.20]] With the initiation of the procedure, they will be granted temporary bankruptcy protection within days, so that enforcement and coercion proceedings cannot continue or be initiated against them, the debtor may repay his debts under the terms of the private bankruptcy proceedings. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Customer Service of the Family Bank Protection Service, set up at the metropolitan and county government offices, provides information on the initiation of the proceedings and can even submit a request to them. On the website of the Family Bank Protection Service, you can find all the detailed information you need, and on this basis you can consider whether you want to make use of this option for state debt relief. It is worth mentioning that court debt settlement is not always possible, and it can be agreed with creditors outside the court. During that period, the debtor shall be entitled to bankruptcy protection. In both out-of-court and court debt settlement procedures, a personalised solution can be drawn up by approximating the interests of the debtor and the creditor to remove persons in difficulty from the debt trap after a few years of debt repayment. Please support the 2015 CV on debt settlement for natural persons. T/9541. Bill No. 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-03-17-89	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-17-90	The government supports the amendment. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-03-17-91	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Robert Balázs Simon. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-17-92	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, According to the latest data from the Ministry of Justice, about 200 people have already applied for private bankruptcy, but about two thousand people are more interested in the procedure than the regional organizations of the Bank Protection Service. In other words, the population is still familiar with the new regulation and makes comparisons in order to deal with its difficulties in payment. In the introduction of the private bankruptcy, the state had in mind, above all, that it could urgently help families with credit debts that were threatened by the loss of their homes. The aim was also to effectively complement previous debt relief measures. Thus, after clearing for unfair banking conditions and forging mortgages and other consumer loans, families whose housing is most threatened by forced sales due to accumulated debts may decide in good time whether to request private bankruptcy or to initiate entry into the National Asset Management Programme. I stress that if a person enters bankruptcy, there is no way to initiate enforcement against him and that those in the process must be suspended. The debtor shall receive a partial payment moratorium for the repayment of accrued debts and, if the debt settlement agreement or the court decision is complied with, the court shall relieve him of the debt overdue. In addition, the State grants repayment aid to those wishing to restore their solvency by means of private bankruptcy proceedings. The Act, which entered into force in September 2015, was amended by the Parliament in November so that since then, credit lenders have been able to initiate proceedings not only with the financial institution with a first-ranking mortgage on their residential property, but also with the family bankruptcy services of the metropolitan and county government offices. As a result, the number of procedures initiated in each county is gradually and steadily increasing. In order to reach as many families as possible, the members of the regional bankruptcy services provide support and information to customers on the main rules of the private bankruptcy procedure, the legal conditions of bankruptcy protection, and help fill in the forms. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As I mentioned, family bankruptcy is just one, but I believe, important tool to help families in distress. That is why I consider the provisions of the bill before us to be good. The purpose of the amendment is to extend the additional deadline of 1 March 2016 by amending the law adopted in November 2015 until 30 September 2016 on the initiative of debt settlement procedures that can be initiated at the first stage, i.e. in accordance with the rules applicable until 30 September 2016. As provided for in the general justification, the amendment therefore gives credit-debted persons another chance to get out of the debt trap in a private bankruptcy procedure, who so far have not followed government information and legal requirements, so they have missed the deadlines for initiating the debt settlement procedure, or who have recently decided to make use of this option. The amendment should also apply to pending cases in order not to reject claims for debt settlement submitted late under previous rules. Ladies and gentlemen, Based on all this, I ask you to support the bill, on behalf of the Fidesz fraction, I can promise you that. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-03-17-93	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2016-03-17-94	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, According to the latest data of the Hungarian National Bank, there are 144,000 non-performing mortgages in Hungary. Of these, between 70 and 80 thousand mortgage lenders hold HUF 80 billion of public utility bills in the country. The reason I'm telling you this is that when you look at people in family bankruptcy, that 199 people, that's just 0.1 percent of this 144,000 people. It's talkative data. But let's look at this amendment for you. The only substantive provision of the only four sections of the bill is the repeated extension of the deadline already extended once in November 2015. In essence, we are not talking about amending a bad law, but we are simply pushing deadlines over and over again, and we are not overwriting the law itself, which we opposition representatives have said from the beginning that it is not good, because it is too strict and too regulated to be able to use it itself. They have not listened to this in the last two debates, and we are again sitting here today to push the deadline. The debt settlement law was submitted by KDNP in the spring of 2015. The quality of the development is well characterised by the fact that the Legislative Committee has finally submitted a summary amendment of 185 points for the bill of 127 paragraphs. The main objections of the Hungarian Socialist Party in the context of the draft debt resolution law were the following, just a few points. The Debt Settlement Act contains a number of restrictions that exclude a significant proportion of debtors from the debt settlement procedure. The draft law against the debt settlement law submitted by the MSZP would not only have allowed the opening of the debt settlement procedure when the debtor was already 90 days late, but also in the event of a risk of insolvency. [[14.30]] In particular, for the period during which the debt repayment plan is implemented, the debt settlement law essentially puts the debtor himself in poverty. The Hungarian Socialist Party submitted a number of amendments to the draft debt resolution law, which would have broadened the range of persons who could be included in the debt settlement procedure, and would have made the burden of debtors more reasonable and fairer, but none of these were supported by the Fidesz-KDNP majority. The correctness of the position of the MSZP, when we said criticisms in the debate, I believe that it has been confirmed. I asked the Minister of Justice with a written question and asked how many people have been able to use the private institution until 15 February 2016 and how much it cost taxpayers. I got the answer to my written question, and then the number came out that 199 people turned to their private institution. I'd count the amounts that cost us. A total of HUF 253.6 million in 2015 for the Justice Office within the Ministry of Justice, of which 17 persons, contributions and operating costs for the central judicial service total HUF 40.5 million; 100 persons for one week's training, travel, accommodation and catering costs, preparation of training materials, performers' fees, reproduction of educational material HUF 23.1 million; the national public debt settlement register, the service website, professional helpdesks for operation and operation of 190 million HUF. For the Ministry of Interior, the necessary information communication services, the creation of the conditions for the storage of the public-credited private bankruptcy register and the electronic filling-out program, as well as a pre-filter program, total HUF 200 million. Within the Prime Minister's Office's chapter, the establishment of family protection services for the metropolitan and county government offices: 60 persons total staff, contributions and operating costs HUF 173.1 million. One week training of 100 people dealing with the private failure task, I have already said that we have 23 million forints, and we also have a government official, Dr. Judi Szekeres, who will receive 222,000 forints a month as ministerial commissioner. I think we have spent 626,7 million forints on the private institution, and against 627 million forints there are 199 citizens. If we had considered that if only this amount had been allocated to 199 people, these people would have been given 3 million forints, and this system would not have cost so much. As early as 2010, the MSZP presented its complete draft law on private bankruptcy, which could provide substantial assistance to a wide range of debtors. Fidesz has even prevented the parliamentary discussion of our bill; instead of really helping debtors, KDNP has left this extremely important issue to settle its own playground. After years of intellect, KDNP finally submitted a legislative freak to the Parliament, demonstrating the total social insensitivity of KDNP, which is what we can talk about now, since we are not amending the law itself, but only pushing the deadline. He has imposed conditions in Draco against debtors that are impossible to meet. That's why no one's willing to use it, I'm telling you, 0.1 percent of the debtors. The private bankruptcy law of KDNP is a complete failure, which the absolution and absolution will help nothing. No matter how late the application deadline is, there will still be no large number of applicants subject to this impossible procedure. In addition, it should be mentioned here that the moratorium on eviction ceased from 1 March 2016; we have not yet seen that the deadline for this would be exceeded by the KDNP government, and we have not yet seen a decision to submit, and from now on debtors can be removed from their homes. The cause of the failure of family bankruptcy protection is clear, most of the creditors in difficulty remain insolvent. The basic problem is workers' poverty, which is caused by low net incomes, currently has little income for those affected, which would put up with additional burdens. Therefore, it is necessary to eliminate the gaping pay gap in the country first, namely by increasing net earnings. In addition, the government has removed social housing subsidies in recent years, although we remember that housing aid, debt management aid, was abolished from 1 March 2015. These were the subsidies that were able to provide some 500 thousand families with real financial assistance each month to pay their late bills. In essence, we are changing the deadline again, the basic problem will not be dealt with, the law itself will not be good, and we would only ask KDNP and Fidesz to finally introduce or accept amendments to the opposition that they have not done so far, which would actually create a law that could help families in debt spirals. For my part, I can say that I am going to resubmit my written question, how many more people have turned to the private institution in the last month, and how much it will still cost this year to maintain this system that does not work. I am only asking you not only to set deadlines, but also to actively try to help families in debt spirals, and to draw attention to the fact that the moratorium on eviction ceased on 1 March 2016. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-03-17-95	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-17-96	Mr President, Dear House, I am very sorry that the KDNP did not consider it important to honour those interested in this topic with a keynote speaker's speech, but we have heard the introductory words, which is some briefing for the future. I could pick up where the previous solo left off, yes, the eviction moratorium is over. We are concerned that the Government of Hungary allows more eviction than the executive leaders themselves are amazingly exercising a kind of abstinence, which I do not expect or expect to expect from them, but the executives who turned people out of their wealth, their lives, respect for the exception, but on a systemic level that can be said. So they, too, would make fewer evictions, some estimate 600 this year than the current government of Hungary would allow. In the Jobbik's view, an eviction is more than permissible for people who are in such a situation without their own fault. In terms of the construction of the private bankruptcy, expectations were very high, as this and the National Asset Manager were referred to as a category that could help a large number of debtors, but we can see the numbers at the National Asset Manager. We see that the government is working with a quota of 35,000, so that's how many people it wants to help. Here, I would like to put a large quotation mark on the aid, as the essence of this construction is to take property from people, to stay in their former apartments, but only as tenants, it is true that they can stay at a printed price, i.e. far from the market price, but still as tenants in the property they took. For a quota of 35,000, we mean that in the case of so many debtors, victims, customers, the government is able to allow people who need to have a kind of permission from the bank or, if you like, permission to do so. In 32,000 cases, this has already happened, so for this year and for the next period, this aid would be made available to 3,000 people. That your budget or any other exit from this institution would have been increased, we did not hear it. [[14.40]] So we're talking about helping 3,000 people. Obviously, the other institution, expected by large masses, would have been a private failure. This campaign was huge, although we can see that the violently narrowing conditions, which in some cases leave less spending money for a family member than the wages or salaries of a public worker, appeared at the stage of the general debate. But here it was perhaps one of the executive vice presidents of the National Bank of Hungary who talked about the possibility that up to 20-25 thousand people could be helped by this system and this construction. If we know the number of contracts signed, a few hundred people have made any progress. In their case, we will see what kind of exit this will take, and then time will decide, but it is certain that on a systemic scale, widely, tens of thousands of people could not have been helped, even though they could have. It could have been, the Jobbik made it clear that he was imagining this in two directions. One of them could be the appearance of a free-of-charge legalized family helper in this system, helping to negotiate with the creditor financial institution, the bank, and most importantly: it would help to clean contracts from financial garbage, so all the unsuitable conditions that remained in this system after the so-called settlement, the so-called forintation, as before. There is an indicator for this, which is the range and number of debtors that fail to perform or fail to fully perform beyond 90 days. As you can see, again, this is 140,000 people climbing towards 140,000 clients, and it is actually hitting the level that was seen before the so-called settlement, so it has not been able to significantly reduce the number of debtors and families in the credit crisis. However, we also see that this first right-wing pillar, that someone should help these people renegotiate the terms with the creditor, has simply not been passed through, because something called private is a kind of concession, giving a small concession from the unjustified debt in exchange for very hard narrowing conditions, and it would be expected, let's say, after the five-year period, to grant the victim the right to walk away from this trap without being owed. However, the odds are not clear. At the same time, as a second pillar, we asked for free re-training programmes, in the spirit of return to the labour market, for all those who had to break up the credit crisis or the family, or that they had to spin out of the labour market, for the most part, I say once again: without their own fault. We do not yet have any indicators of the proportion of re-entering the productive sector, the labour market, so in these two very serious areas we cannot get the government a good certificate. To extend a deadline for more people to make this system acceptable to themselves, it would be acceptable in itself, but in addition to the acceptable one, we have to say very little. It is very, very little, and it is a basically poorly managed institutional mutant to untie, because this is what is going on here, and we also see that it is possible at systemic level from the reserves of the Hungarian budget and from other reserves to intervene in substance. As a long-term solution, however, we continue to see only one, and this is the HUFing of the loans concerned at the rate of admission, the regrouping of the funds concerned, for the original owners, the Hungarian citizens and the affected creditors. Until this happens, Jobbik's pressure will continue, but until this public battle is carried out, and someone will, where appropriate, bring real justice to the credit-damaged, it may be just a Jobbik government, but until then, by extending the eviction moratorium, we should achieve the desired security for those citizens for whom I would like to point out: now even executive leaders are more restrained than the amazing period of emergency that Hungary's Government allows with its current measures. After all, once again, the number of eviction quotas allocated by the executives is lower than the government allows. This must be changed as a matter of urgency, extending the eviction moratorium until the problem is fully resolved, as you have promised. The Jobbik will be on this and will not leave a moment's breath for the government until measurable results are on the table in this area. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-17-97	Thank you very much, Congressman. István Ikotity, Member of the LMP Group, notary of the Parliament. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-17-98	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The law on private bankruptcy came into force in September, but it's been amended for the second time. The deadline is now being extended, this time extending until 30 September 2016 the deadline extended until 1 March 2016 for the submission of first-stage debt settlement requests. The reason is the same as in the first amendment: a very small number of debtors entered the private bankruptcy compared to the preliminary expectations. According to the latest figures, only 199 debtors have initiated debt settlement procedures so far, while the government has calculated a short-term entry rate of 20-25 000. While it is clear to the contrary that the institution of the private failure, which had already been put in place late and without proper preparation, has failed in this form, the government refuses to acknowledge failure. They still tell themselves that this is a time-consuming thing, that people make comparisons, weigh, and so forth. Yet, this is not the case, and it is only proof that two deadlines have already expired, and this has not brought the anticipated interest. Now that we are on the third deadline, there is little reason to believe that debtors need time to decide. Rather, it is simply a bad regulation. We have often said that the private failure, under such strict conditions of entry and cooperation, restricts the range of potential entrants. Too many conditions have to be met, too much income has to be paid, too many payments have to be paid and too little income can be kept for everyday living. Among the in trouble debtors of 182 thousand people, very few have access to private bankruptcy. It takes a stable, regular income, a job, above average, and it doesn't hurt that the debtor adjusts to over-complicated bureaucratic rules. In addition, a serious existential sacrifice must be made. During the five years of debt settlement, the family of the debtor has to live well below the minimum level of living; in addition to housing, the amount spent on living is one and a half times the minimum old-age pension, which is HUF 128 250 for three persons. Most of the debtors are low-income, insolvent, who has not been really helped by any of the government's measures so far, neither by end-payment nor by private bankruptcy, but the National Asset Manager is also not a realistic option because of the small volume of housing that can be taken over. The private failure could have been an important institution that could have helped tens of thousands of families. LMP has previously proposed the following amendments. Firstly, the administration involved in the application must be significantly simplified. Currently, 100 pages of documentation have to be completed and this has to be submitted in four copies, i.e. 400 pages only for the application. It is also not easy to follow the rules, given that it is a regulation containing more than one hundred pages of legislation and a number of detailed rules, this should also be significantly simplified. The conditions for entry into private bankruptcy should be amended so that debtors with typically smaller housing and lower regular income can also initiate. This requires a reduction in the mandatory repayment, adjusted to the solvency and income of the debtor. The level of disposable income should be set at a higher level and not in proportion to the minimum pension, but in proportion to the minimum wage. A solution must also be found if a person becomes insolvent without his own fault, it should not be considered as a lack of cooperation and should not be put on the street for this reason. At the same time, private bankruptcy can only be one of the elements of the system for dealing with or preventing debt. A wide range of people in need face difficulties in the payment of housing costs and public utility expenses and rent backs. Less than 10 percent of evictions are linked to the bank, most of which is public utility debt. A debt management programme should be put in place, debt management advice and debt reduction support that were abolished last year, as well as housing maintenance programmes that had helped half a million people. In addition, it would be very important to develop an affordable, low-cost, therefore sustainable housing network, which would help crowds; while it would be crucial to develop a functioning and extensive social housing system, the necessary municipal housing stock has continued to decline in recent years. [[14.50]] Only more than half of the municipal dwellings, one and a half of the total housing stock, are rented on a social basis. A public housing fund should therefore be set up and ways of involving vacant private dwellings in the community housing sector should also be found. We know that there are a very large number of such apartments, and since no one dares to take the risk, neither the state, so these apartments are empty; this would be a huge opportunity. The housing crisis in Hungary will continue and mass debt will be a problem until there are sufficient numbers and affordable social and community rentals. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-03-17-99	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. Since neither independent representatives nor two-minute speeches have been submitted, I would like to ask if anyone would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Imre Vejkey, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] I wish. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-17-100	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As you know, the debt settlement procedure can be initiated at the first stage by a loan-paying person whose assets and repaymentable income are not sufficient to repay the loan, and as a result of the enforcement procedure, he would lose his apartment. By amending the law, i.e. extending the deadline, we wish to help these fellow citizens again. I thank the government and the Fidesz-KDNP fraction for their support for this assistance. Both the MSZP, Jobbik and the LMP faction expressed the criticism, not about the bill, but about the law already adopted, that few had used it. We Christian Democrats believe that if we were able to help at least one family with the law, it was worth it, but the fact is that we were able to help not one but over 300 families. This is what we want to continue; please support the bill. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: I need 40-50 thousand!]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-17-101	Thank you very much, Congressman. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Monday. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, It follows now that the 2015 Annex VII on investment in maintaining the capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant and amending certain laws in this regard will follow. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/9632. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-17-102	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear House, The bill before us has one purpose: the so-called Paks II Act is often debated 5. the amendment of §8 of the Act. The Paks II Act was attacked and attacked from the left after its entry into force on 19 March 2015. The political causes of the attacks are now not my place to point out, but behind the attacks there was also an important legal aspect, and that is why we are here today: primarily they opposed the law from the conviction that it was 5th. § 3 of the Law does not claim to be in line with Article VI of the Fundamental Law. Article 27 of the Act on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information Paragraph 2 of this Article. Some Members of Parliament and NGOs have also turned to the Constitutional Court. In November 2015, the European Commission sent a request to the Hungarian Government in the framework of the EU pilot procedure on the encryption of data relating to the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. The Commission challenged Article 5 of the Act. The provisions of Section 2 of Directive 2003/4/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on public access to environmental information and repealing Directive 90/2013/EEC, hereinafter referred to as the Directive, may be contrary to the provisions of that paragraph, in particular Article 4 (2) of that Directive. In the Commission's view, the paragraph in question limits the ability to obtain information on the business and technical data contained in the contracts concluded, on the basis of the business and technical data relating to preparation and conclusion, and on the basis of the relevant decisions, without any consideration. On behalf of the government, the Minister of Justice replied. Our argument was that the Hungarian legislation fully complies with the requirements of the directive and its application in the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union, as it required consideration on a compulsory basis. The Paks II Act 5. §2 of the Act provides for restrictions on access to data of general interest, in the light of the national security interest and the right to intellectual property, among the specific purposes set out in the info law. The law allows only for contractual data, including two types of data, business and technical data, to restrict access to information on the basis of the info law, i.e. to restrict the enforcement of access to information as data of public interest. However, in our response to the European Commission, we stressed that the Hungarian Government is prepared to amend the contested provision with a view to facilitating interpretation and application, which would make it more clear that the Act 5. § 3 of the info law must be interpreted in conjunction with Article III of the Act on data requirements in the public interest. Chapter 3 of the European Parliament and of the Council, as well as other sectoral laws. In its reply, the Commission indicated that the amendment would be appropriate to ensure compliance with the relevant requirement of Directive 2003/4/EC. In view of the above, the Government prepared and submitted Article 5 of the Paks II Act. the amendment of §8 of the Act. It is a formal constitutional requirement, contrary to the restriction of access to public information, that the restriction should be carried out solely as a result of a procedure laid down by law. It is also a requirement to limit access to data of general interest and to be proportionate to the objective pursued by the restriction. In addition, in order to ensure fundamental rights, there should be a substantive and effective judicial remedy for the restriction of the public, which should include, in addition to examining formal criteria, an examination of the substance of the justification for the restriction of the public. In our view, the contested regulation meets the requirements, as the restriction does not cover all the data relating to the investment, on the contrary, the scope of the limited data is limited in many respects. The restriction does not apply to all data circuits outside the Paks Act 5. In the context of the regulatory scope of §2 of the Act, such as those which are otherwise known or otherwise classified by public data, whether in the public interest or by other sectoral law. The restriction applies only to the knowledge of data of general interest, which is included in the data scope above. Accordingly, all data the public disclosure of which is provided by other laws as public data in the public interest are not covered by the Paks II Act, including data not considered as public interest data for the management and provision of public property under the State Property Act. [[15.00]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. Some Members of Parliament and NGOs have also turned to the Constitutional Court. In November 2015, the European Commission sent a request to the Hungarian Government in the framework of the EU pilot procedure on the encryption of data relating to the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. The Commission challenged Article 5 of the Act. The provisions of Section 2 of Directive 2003/4/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on public access to environmental information and repealing Directive 90/2013/EEC, hereinafter referred to as the Directive, may be contrary to the provisions of that paragraph, in particular Article 4 (2) of that Directive. In the Commission's view, the paragraph in question limits the ability to obtain information on the business and technical data contained in the contracts concluded, on the basis of the business and technical data relating to preparation and conclusion, and on the basis of the relevant decisions, without any consideration. On behalf of the government, the Minister of Justice replied. Our argument was that the Hungarian legislation fully complies with the requirements of the directive and its application in the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union, as it required consideration on a compulsory basis. The Paks II Act 5. §2 of the Act provides for restrictions on access to data of general interest, in the light of the national security interest and the right to intellectual property, among the specific purposes set out in the info law. The law allows only for contractual data, including two types of data, business and technical data, to restrict access to information on the basis of the info law, i.e. to restrict the enforcement of access to information as data of public interest. However, in our response to the European Commission, we stressed that the Hungarian Government is prepared to amend the contested provision with a view to facilitating interpretation and application, which would make it more clear that the Act 5. § 3 of the info law must be interpreted in conjunction with Article III of the Act on data requirements in the public interest. Chapter 3 of the European Parliament and of the Council, as well as other sectoral laws. In its reply, the Commission indicated that the amendment would be appropriate to ensure compliance with the relevant requirement of Directive 2003/4/EC. In view of the above, the Government prepared and submitted Article 5 of the Paks II Act. the amendment of §8 of the Act. It is a formal constitutional requirement, contrary to the restriction of access to public information, that the restriction should be carried out solely as a result of a procedure laid down by law. It is also a requirement to limit access to data of general interest and to be proportionate to the objective pursued by the restriction. In addition, in order to ensure fundamental rights, there should be a substantive and effective judicial remedy for the restriction of the public, which should include, in addition to examining formal criteria, an examination of the substance of the justification for the restriction of the public. In our view, the contested regulation meets the requirements, as the restriction does not cover all the data relating to the investment, on the contrary, the scope of the limited data is limited in many respects. The restriction does not apply to all data circuits outside the Paks Act 5. In the context of the regulatory scope of §2 of the Act, such as those which are otherwise known or otherwise classified by public data, whether in the public interest or by other sectoral law. The restriction applies only to the knowledge of data of general interest, which is included in the data scope above. Accordingly, all data the public disclosure of which is provided by other laws as public data in the public interest are not covered by the Paks II Act, including data not considered as public interest data for the management and provision of public property under the State Property Act. 3 p.m. These data are available in accordance with general rules on access to public data in the public interest. Freedom of information is primarily guaranteed by the info law at the statutory level. The law ensures that the fundamental rights of access to data of general interest can ultimately be enforced in a court of law by means of a procedure called a request for access to data of general interest. The info law allows a judicial review of the rejection of the need for public information in the public interest and public interest. If the controller has rejected the application, the applicant may refer that decision to a court. The court shall examine the legality of the refusal and the grounds for refusal which the controller must prove. The Paks II Act does not deviate from these requirements, it provides a framework for their enforcement in the light of the general rules of the info law. Accordingly, the Paks II Act 5. The request for data pursuant to §2 of this Regulation may be modelled as follows. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] 1. The data seeker makes a request for data in the public interest. 2. The data provider examines whether the Paks II Act 5. In the context of the feasibility agreements and the investment, it concerns the business and technical data contained in the contracts concluded by the Russian designated entity within the meaning of Article 3 (1) of the Convention and its subcontractors and by the Hungarian designated body and its subcontractors within the meaning of Article 3 (2) of the Convention, or the business and technical data relating to the preparation and conclusion of the implementation agreements, contracts and agreements, or the relevant decisions. If this does not include the requested data, such as public data in the public interest, it shall comply with the requested data request. 4. If the Paks II Act is 5. This is a data type covered by Article 27 of the Information Act, so the data provider will examine whether or not the information law exists. (b) or (h): national security interest or interest in intellectual property rights. If the above interests exist, then the Paks II Act 5. It may no longer consider and shall refuse to disclose it. If these interests do not exist, it shall provide the requested data to the data seeker.5. If the data provider refuses access to the data by reference to the Paks II Act, the data seeker is the 31st Data Act. The Court of Justice shall have jurisdiction pursuant to paragraph 6 of this Article. In the course of judicial redress, the court may examine whether the data controller's classification was correct, whether the requested data falls within the scope of the data contained in the Paks II Act, and whether the legal basis for refusal, the interest or interest in the right to national security or intellectual property actually existed. Dear Parliament, Dear House, This is precisely the logic of the amendment before us which is more clear to the law-abiding people than before. It is clear from the text of the amended law, to which we have received not only the consent of the European Commission but also the agreement of the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, that the public service body handling the data is obliged to consider, in the case of a request for data in the public interest or in the event of a refusal, whether the disclosure of the required technical and business data is in breach of national security or intellectual property interests. The amended 5th. § 2 makes it more clear that this must be interpreted in conjunction with Article III of the info law relating to data requests of general interest. Chapter 3 and other sectoral laws. I trust you agree with the content of the broad, professionally based draft. I therefore call on this House to discuss the bill on the basis of the reasons given, and then to adopt it afterwards. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-17-103	Welcome, fellow Members. I give the floor to Imre Vas, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-03-17-104	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, On 3 March 2015, the Parliament adopted a bill on investment in the maintenance of the capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant and certain related amendments. The government did not hide the fact that the law paid particular attention to the question of the publicity of the data at the time of submission. In this respect, it was difficult to adapt the confidentiality clause of the Convention to the constitutional requirements relating to intellectual property related to Hungarian national security and foreign relations, as well as to data access and public disclosure of data of general interest. Directive 2003/4/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council states that it is necessary to ensure that all natural and legal persons have the right to access environmental information held by public authorities or stored by public authorities without any justification. Article 4 (2) of the same Directive also states in which cases a Member State may require that environmental information be refused. For example, if disclosure of information would adversely affect public security, defence, business secrets, business secrets, and possibly intellectual property. The European Commission launched a procedure to examine the points raised in November 2015, in which it asked questions to the Hungarian Government. In January this year, the Government presented, in a letter of reply, a clarification proposal, which is now being discussed in the form of a bill. The bill therefore makes it clear that the 2015 Annex VII on investment in maintaining the capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant and amending certain related laws Act 5. §2 of the Act must be interpreted in conjunction with the 2011 CXII on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information. Act III on data requirements in the public interest Chapter 3 and other sectoral laws. However, under the proposal, the data controller or body carrying out a public service mission should consider whether the disclosure of the required technical and business data is in breach of the interests of national security or intellectual property. As far as I know, the text presented has the support of both the Commission's competent authorities and the President of the National Data Protection and Freedom of Information Authority, so it fully complies with the constitutional and fundamental rights requirements. I am convinced that the text thus clarified is clearly for transparency, and that it gives us the opportunity to limit the need for data in the public interest to the minimum and necessary extent possible. I believe that this fact is easy to see with common sense, even for the most vicious environmental movement or for an activist seeking data in the public interest, all other manifestations are unnecessary hysteria in the light of what has been said. I therefore ask that the proposal be supported. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-17-105	I now give the floor to Gergely Bárándy, the lead speaker of the MSZP group. [[15.10]]
u2016-03-17-106	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary of State. It can be seen that the government is trying to bring the Paks Investment Act into line with the Freedom of Information Act as a professional proposal, but this effort will hardly succeed. In addition, these new provisions will have to be applied to pending data requests according to your good habits. Let me just say a few words about the history, on the one hand, and this process on the other. We know that the adoption of a law on investments in the maintenance of the capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant and the amendment of certain laws in this regard, and even the negotiation phase, have triggered a lively debate. Attila Péterfalvi, President of NAIH, criticized the proposal quite sharply even before its adoption and, I repeat, during the negotiation phase. Then we also learned that the Hungarian Government and the European Commission agree on this proposal. So it is unnecessary to state this proposal that this is due to the good intentions of the government, because it is precisely possible to know that the European Commission will force this change from the Hungarian Government, because it has been discussed between the government and the Commission these days, so it was in practice that this general prohibition which you have tried to adopt and which you have tried to enforce is not compatible with the Community legal order, and therefore you have to figure out something about how this can be put within certain limits. Of course, it can also be stressed that, as you do, these limits are such that, in practice, the intention, the legislative intention that you wanted to enforce in the previous law, if possible, do not actually change, they are merely formally trying to comply with the demands of the European Commission. This is not in itself, which is most important, although I think it is shameful in itself that we are now renegotiating in Parliament a very, very large number of laws that were previously submitted by the judicial portfolio and contrary to Community law. I think that this is a pretty bad certificate for the operation and professional competence of the judicial wallet. Or, as a B-version, it can be said that it is completely politically biased, i.e. professional competences are always pushed into the background by political considerations, at least from this process it seems and seems. The other problem is this, and this is the more serious, unfortunately, that this law, as well as its predecessor, is a process, one of the elements of a series. Once again, as a professional suggestion, you're trying to set it up for a reason, but it's not. You can see, as we can, of course, that institutionalized state corruption that has been going on in this country for six years can operate almost without limits. It works without limits because you have a biased Attorney General who refuses to prosecute government cases in corruption cases. Obviously, the police under the supervision of the Minister of the Interior will do so even less, and the Court of Auditors, led by their former fellow Member, will also not. The tax authority, which is now run by our current Member, will also not do so. So, you think you can actually steal without consequences. And forgive me, Mr Répássy and I have had this debate many times: I do not mean the people sitting here, not the fellow Members sitting here. The Members and the state leaders I am thinking of will never honor the House in these debates, not by accident, obviously; as in the previous debate, the Minister left immediately, as he practically said. In other words, I'm not talking about you. But I'm talking about your faction and your government and some of its members. There is only one real problem for you in relation to state corruption, and that is the public, the public, the data disclosure, and we have certainly tried to use every opportunity to do so, in the sense that we are asking for information in the form of public interest. Many NGOs have also tried to do this, and representatives of other opposition parties have also tried to do so. And I have to say that we have been quite successful lately, because, although you always refuse to issue the data in the first instance, the Hungarian court is giving the petitioner the truth, the person who brought the action, and you are obliged to issue these data. I understand that this is extremely unpleasant for you. It's obviously dangerous on the government side for two reasons. On the one hand, when these numbers and these figures are revealed, this must destroy and destroy the popularity of Fidesz in an extraordinary way. It is obvious that when people are confronted not only with acts of corruption in a general sense but also with what they are talking about, how much they have spent, what contracts you have concluded, it is quite different than what is happening in general. So this is extremely, once again, eroding the popularity of Fidesz. The other one is such a problem, and perhaps this is what hits those who order the MNB law from Parliament, for example, that if these data are public today and these crimes end up after 10-15 years, eventually there will be a chief prosecutor willing to investigate these matters, and then the data will be there for him. Well, that's a problem. Therefore, since you are aware of this in the not-so-distant past, you are putting in place laws that are trying to prevent requests for data of general interest and have retroactive effect. One of the elements of this was the Paks Treaty or the Paks Act, and the other element is, let's say, the Postal Act and the third element is the Act on the National Bank of Hungary. The latter two were too many for the President of the Republic and sent to the Constitutional Court; there is a good chance that he will be declared unconstitutional. Obviously, these are areas of the greatest abuse. We are well aware that at the Hungarian National Bank, if we only ask questions about foundations, we are already talking about the order of 200 billion dollars. Well, even if the data were to be published not only on this, but also on the other spendings of the National Bank! But if there's even more volume, well, then it's Paks II. You know perfectly well that if the treaties that impose on Hungarian citizens the burdens that go ahead for several decades for each Hungarian citizen are made public, and there is a suspected abuse case in it, that society will be outraged in an extraordinary way, and, once again, the punishment for these cases starts from 10-15 years immediately in the context of the statute of limitations. Obviously, you're trying to do everything you can to make sure that doesn't happen. It's just, as they say, fellow Members, it's not the horse's foot that hangs out, it's the whole horse. And this law, which lies before us now, is part of this process and is being asked to be interpreted as part of this process, not as a kind of professional proposal, as the Secretary of State has otherwise proposed for us. How much you are afraid of this, nothing can prove more than the closing words or closing sentences of my fellow Member, Imre Vas, where it is already foreseen, obviously knowing that the opposition will not treat this as a professional proposal, than it is not, it is immediately talking about unnecessary hystericalisation and other opposition condemnable behaviour, as if it were to be expected that this law would receive serious criticism. A few sentences may be worth making about specific changes. The Secretary of State pointed out that it would be possible to refuse to provide data for two reasons: on the one hand, in the interest of national security and, on the other hand, in the light of intellectual property law. Dear Secretary of State, I say that we are now at the same point where we were at with the general ban, because without thinking, you will say all the more significant, important, sensitive data about the Paks Nuclear Power Plant that this cannot be disclosed in the interest of national security, because what would be a more protected object, a more protected project than a nuclear power plant. [[15.20]] They can blame it on anything, just like they can blame it on intellectual property. And you don't even have to push yourself that hard, because in the last few years, which you haven't published for national security, it's just... it's just... it's... it's... it's just... it's just... it's... it's... it's just... it's... it's just... it's... it's just... it's... it's just... it's... it's just... it's... it's just... it's just... it's... it's just... it's just... it's... it's just... it's just... it's... it's just... it's just... it's... it's just... it's just... Let me just mention three, Mr. Secretary. One is John Lazarus's journey to London. Why would it be in the interest of national security not to let the public know what they spent and how much money there? Is it in the national security interest to know where the minister is staying? Don't tell me this can be it. But to say two more absurd things: where is the national security interest, let's say, in connection with the construction of the stadium in Szombathely? In a secret government decision, more than HUF 4 billion was contributed to the otherwise not little money, from which they intend to build the stadium in Szombathely, a total of more than HUF 10 billion. More than 10 billion forints! What's the national security interest here? The data will not be published on grounds of national security. Or I could mention the $500 million grant from one of the sports teams in Veszprém. Where does national security interest come up with the state support of a sports team? 'Cause you don't give it away with that reference. And should we believe that, as far as the most delicate data is concerned, the Paks Nuclear Power Plant will not rely on national security interests, even unnecessarily and unduly? That is why I say that this law is no better than the previous one. It is not more forward-looking, it is not more compatible with Community law. They will also refuse to release the data, but they will now name these two aspects. That's the difference. So, ladies and gentlemen, I can say one thing in summary: the process that you have just started with these three laws is quite astonishing, outrageous, untenable. We can promise one thing: that we will do everything we can at all legal forums both in Hungary and abroad in order for Hungarian citizens to have access to this data, so that we can get to know this information. You can also be sure, ladies and gentlemen, that, on the basis of these figures, accountability will not fail, because what is delayed will not, as they say. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-03-17-107	I now give the floor to Lajos Kepli, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-03-17-108	Mr. President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We can also say that we can see from the legislation of the previous periods that Fidesz does not like publicity. He does not like to conduct his affairs in public, which are often suspected of corruption, not once, but often, almost every time. Where public procurement, public funds, large investments are involved, encryption, reference to national security reasons, confidentiality and I could list them everywhere. This, in turn, directly undermines the otherwise unexistent authority that the government should maintain in the eyes of Hungarian citizens through these investments. It's a very dangerous game for an investment in a nuclear power plant that the government is playing. At the moment, the majority of Hungarian society may still support the construction of new blocks of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant and enlargement. However, with this behaviour, which is being pursued among other things in the field of encryption, this policy undermines the still perhaps existing but rather shaky support for the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. This unwittingly drives water at the expense of the lobby who have been working hard for this treaty for years, since the agreement with Russia. Why is Jobbik more credible than other opposition parties when criticizing this bill? Because we really cannot be blamed for wanting to prevent the investment in the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant as such. From the first moment we declared that we support the peaceful use of nuclear power in Hungary, instead of the ageing blocks of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, the construction of new blocks. We have supported any proposal that has been put before Parliament in this regard, and we have expressed our agreement, since we have said that there is no realistic alternative to nuclear energy at the moment. We have had quite a few debates about this here in Parliament. What I'm trying to say is that we really can't say that we want to drill the investment and that's why we're attacking the encryption bill. We are attacking it, as has already been said, and it is quite clear that we are part of a process. The Act on the National Bank of Hungary, the Postal Act and the Act on Encryption of Contracts for the Paks Nuclear Power Plant unfold the image that public contracts are indeed being encrypted, in this case for 30 years, which may be open to politicians of future generations, often when these cases have already expired. So, obviously, this bill is not capable of improving access to data of general interest compared to what you originally brought to Parliament. In fact, I will go further than this: my fellow Member, Barándy, said that this law is not better, and I say that it is practically the same bill as the Parliament had originally negotiated. In fact, what has happened is that from the Freedom of Information Act, you have also included in this law in Annex III to the Act on Freedom of Information. Chapter 27 Article 27 and Article 27 thereof. In fact, it is a question of the right to intellectual creation and of the information which is encrypted in the interest of national security. Indeed, this is true, but this law is the same law, and I do not know why it is more appropriate for the European Commission when it is practically the same as we have not already supported it before, but the House has already voted on it. We can no longer support this, as the risk of national security can be blamed on any information that they do not want to be made public, or do not want public information on this issue to be launched massally by the Hungarian Parliament's mostly opposition fractions. These can be rejected virtually without justification or with some justification, because the risk of national security can be blamed on almost anything, and I do not think the Freedom of Information Act clearly provides what they can assume from now on that this is a national security risk, unfortunately we cannot disclose this. You may go to court, indeed, there is an appeal procedure, but the court will probably say the same thing, and you will reject these requests. This is a very dangerous game because it is a very important energy investment in the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. Hungary's energy security and security of energy supply could be put at risk for 20-30-50 years if we give room to opinions and positions that are constantly trying to drill this investment, whether in Brussels or at home. I can say that we are not at all on a platform with MEP Jávor Benedek, who is already trying to prevent this investment by all means and by all means and using all kinds of means. We're not on a platform with him. What we are doing on a platform is that this bill on encryption is not about not being able to learn information about national security risks. It goes much further than that; this is about the fact that the business contracts that will be concluded with the Russian party in connection with the implementation will not be known to Hungarian citizens. Here it will be possible to pump forints or even rubles to different beneficiaries in the order of billions, and the details of this contract should not be transparent to Hungarian society. This increases the risk of uncertainty, and this will lead in the long term to Hungarian society backing out from supporting the expansion of the nuclear power plant. Not because they would not feel safe about nuclear technology, which has been operating virtually completely safely in Hungary for 30 years thanks to the expertise and capabilities of Hungarian engineers, but because they create a completely inaccessible environment around it, which increasingly creates a breeding ground for rumors that aim to hide different security risks here. If you do not install the equipment required, say, in Finland, but not in us, if there will be no such or additional security investment that will increase the costs of nuclear power plant investment by one and a half times the cost of nuclear power plant investment, this will be a nuclear power plant with risks. [[15.30]] That is not the case, but it is you who will achieve this with this bill and similar bill. I think that this bill should be considered and withdrawn in this form, and, if it is not withdrawn, then rules should be drawn up to ensure that the information available for the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant is settled in a calm and clear manner, and that no information on spending public funds or taxpayers' forints should be encrypted. It is a credit agreement, but it is obvious that the repayment of this credit agreement will be charged to Hungarian taxpayers for many years. And obviously there is also a part of itself in addition to this loan, which will also be paid from Hungarian taxpayers' forints. It is therefore entirely legitimate that these contracts, from the hourly fee of the lawyers' work, to the part of the work fees of the assembly subcontractors that does not hide a business secret, should be known to Hungarian citizens. We did not support this law before when it came to Parliament. And since, as I have just said, it does not contain virtually any substantive changes, it does not provide any greater access under the Freedom of Information Act, since it refers to the same paragraph which it has previously given no additional guarantee, and therefore we cannot support the encryption for thirty years. By the way, we don't agree with you for 30 years as a matter of time. If I remember correctly, the original proposal had a much lower duration, fifteen years, and then thirty years. Fifteen years would serve national security interests properly, serve business secrets properly, and serve the economic interests that could really justify that some of the information should not be given as public interest data in the next few years, but in any case not in thirty years, because this could always mean smearing responsibility and avoiding liability. Of course, we wouldn't keep this up; Jobbik still doesn't think this level of encryption is justified. We will not support this bill, and I may not reveal a secret, because that is what my speech has been about all this time. We further call on the government to refrain from further undermining the credibility of the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant in the eyes of society with such proposals, and to make the whole investment environment even more uncertain, as there is already increasing uncertainty around it. Not only the people of Paks, but the whole country is waiting for the concrete construction of the nuclear power plant to start. In principle, the first cutting should take place in 2018, but we don't see much of that yet. We very much hope that, if this really happens, both the city of Paks and Hungary will be prepared to carry out such an investment, because we do not see it at the moment. This does not fall within the scope of this agenda, but it is worth talking about the fact that the country is not ready at the moment, the Hungarian businesses are not ready, they are not more ready than they were two or three years ago. You have done nothing to prepare Hungarian businesses to meet the 40 percent Hungarian supplier ratio. But I say this only in parentheses, because it is not the subject of the law on freedom of information or the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. In conclusion, I can tell you that we do not support this bill. We have tabled an amendment and, if it is accepted, we can rethink this issue. In the meantime, we propose to you that, taking into account the needs of Hungarian society, you make the corruption-suspecting transactions and investments that have taken place recently and that will take place in the near future more transparently. What is public money really should be treated as public money, and should not be treated as private money, since you also said that by going to the foundation, it is no longer public money. This, of course, does not correspond to reality, since it has not become private property, but it is treated in its entirety as if it were indeed private property, its own private assets and used for various investments. Jobbik will no longer support this, and will even press very strict charges in all corruption cases, launch an investigation and reject it in the strongest possible terms. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-17-109	I now give the floor to István Ikotity, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2016-03-17-110	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I begin by saying that for a government that prefers to be national, there is hardly any more shame for a government than for a supranational organisation to protect Hungarian citizens from its abuse of power, in this case the European Union. But let's take a step back. When Viktor Orbán in Moscow secretly agreed with Vladimir Putin on the Paks expansion, people in Hungary were told that they were only looking at the current developments in Hungarian-Russian affairs. Since then, the planned expansion investment has been accompanied by unfair secrecy and misconception in relation to the project's weight and the amount of public funds to be spent. The culmination of artificial obscurity was last year's amendment of the nuclear law, with which all the preparatory documents and contracts of the investment were actually attempted to be removed from parliamentary and social control. Perhaps we would have succeeded if the impertinent effort had not conflicted with the long-standing legislation of the European Union, which is part of Hungarian law. It must be seen that there is little more shame for a government that prefers to be national than for a supranational organisation, the European Union, to protect Hungarian citizens from its abuse of power. If it is a project aimed at boosting the Russian economy and, in our opinion, the transfer of some of the money to Fidesz, instead of the Hungarian energy supply, which serves primarily Russian interests, then they know more than we Hungarians do in Moscow and Brussels. So they know more about this project in Moscow and Brussels than we Hungarians, who pay for it all. One of the symbols of the Orbán government has become the Paks expansion, which shows that you and I have come to the point of our own government throwing the country into the hands of external economic interests. However, since we are members of the European Union's community, you are not allowed to do anything either. They get the red cards from Brussels, for example, when you want to give the Russians monopoly rights to fuel the new blocks. But this is what is happening now, when the veil of the secret is forced to go a little higher, unfortunately not willingly, but under pressure from Brussels. Viktor Orbán and his government, in this reverse economic freedom fight against Hungarian taxpayers, act as a paid lobbyist for Rosatom. It is able to oppose any Hungarian or international legal requirement to protect Russian interests, and it is also happy to assist its own citizens in the looting of their rights, if it can contribute to the realisation of a completely unnecessary investment from a Hungarian perspective, to the opaque use of public funds. The possibility of secrecy is now somewhat narrowed down by the Commission's decision, to which the Hungarian government will be forced to adapt, but this does not answer the basic questions of the planned enlargement project. We still do not know what economics calculations have been used to decide on the implementation of Russian participation, Russian technology and Russian credit. Over two years, only one so-called independent study produced by the Rothschild bank house providing lobby services for an unknown amount to the government has been developed, but it has only shown that electricity on the international market should at least double the return on the project. However, no one is likely to expect such an increase other than those who did the study. We do not know for how much money what the Russians have undertaken to build and what we have to build from Hungarian budgetary resources. [[15.40]] It remained vague about the investments needed to integrate the two blocks into the network and operate them together with the old nuclear power plant, how much money they will cost and who will pay the bill. And we don't even know what deadline the Russian party took. Thus, the strange situation is that the Hungarian public knows much more about the main parameters of European nuclear power projects than about the expansion of Paks. We know the time and cost overrun in France or Finland, but we will never know what this looks like in connection with the Paks enlargement, because we no longer know the initial figures. If it is up to the Orbán government, it will in fact never be known whether we will pay a double or triple price compared to the originally planned price, because this current amendment also allows all relevant facts and documents to continue to be kept secret on grounds of national security or intellectual property. Interestingly, a nuclear power plant can be built in France or Finland without prejudice to national security considerations, so that citizens know how much the investment costs, who pays and why the construction needs to be completed. It seems that this information would create a national security risk in Hungary alone. The LMP cannot accept this argument and we see little of the legislative amendment before us. We believe that a 100% public-paid investment in the country's economy and foreign policy for decades should have no secrets from voters and taxpayers. The interests of the Russian main contractor must not be more important than the fundamental rights of information enshrined in the Constitution. We use suspicion, and the history proves that by keeping secrets, they want to make it easier for public money to disappear. According to the LMP, Hungarian taxpayers have the right to know who and what they are building with their money, but this law does not fully provide the information needed to control public spending, so we are proposing an amendment, and we call on you to stop running this amok without delay, and instead of Russian nuclear power plants, think about renewable energy at the end of the 21st century. In the century. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-03-17-111	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Now it is possible to make a two-minute comment. I give the floor to notary Nándor Gúr.
u2016-03-17-112	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In a manner of speaking, insolence is boundless. If it was just me, it wouldn't be a problem. But the truth is, when you meet people on the street, talking to people, you hear that more and more often. More and more often to hear; yes, that incompetence is boundless, and what they do, that they try to deny everything, encrypt everything, and retroactively, in such a way as to provide legal certainty that public information cannot be accessed, so that the use of public funds cannot be traced, that public money is no longer public money within the framework of the foundation, and that it can be said that what has happened is classified. So they want to hide or encrypt everything, in this case they want to increase this period to 30 years, which was formulated in the previous 15 years. So, that's the point of impertinence. I have to say, if there's any illegal activity, if there's a theft, [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks.]] "Theft remains theft even if it is placed within the framework of legal protection. So, as my colleague Bárándy put it, should you be aware that all the actions that we are talking about are of the type of billions of public funds, or are we talking about a thousand billion-dollar scale here, using that kind of use? - it's a type of, I can't really describe, how to face it, which doesn't cross the boundaries of legality, but crosses it, everyone has to face it sooner or later. I think you should think about how and how you do it, by making information available to people within a fair framework. It also gives them immunity. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-03-17-113	Congressman Robert Répássy applied for two minutes.
u2016-03-17-114	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, I agree with Mr Nándor Gúr on one thing: surely the socialists believe that they will not be government within 30 years. Because if you want to change the terrible 30-year encryption you mentioned, all you have to do is take the majority in Parliament and change the laws. It is not classified information, it is not classified information, it is simply the restriction on other pre-decision documents that do not make these data public, but it is not classified information. It's a fundamental mistake. Not to mention the 30 years that Nándor Gúr talked about. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-17-115	Mr Nándor Gúr has now applied for a speech. You have the floor.
u2016-03-17-116	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Member Répássy! I do not wish to visualize how political processes are going. Although if I did, I'd have to tell you right now if I was looking at the odds, I wouldn't really bet on you now. I don't really do that, because the process that you have started now is only if we stay here on the subject, whether in terms of the accessibility of information that is of public interest or the use of public funds and similar matters, it all leads in the direction that more and more people in Hungary are opening their eyes and seeing clearly and clearly what you are doing. You know, yesterday, when we discussed the draft parliamentary resolution on the 225th anniversary of Széchenyi's birth, it was interesting to hear the connection here from the pro-government benches that Széchenyi's greatness and his actions are how and how they coincide with the actions of today's government. Even then, I said that I would repeat to you and your fellow Members the one sentence about knowing, if you do not know, that you will certainly experience that Széchenyi has sacrificed a great deal of his own wealth, a great deal to make this country move forward. And now, for the last six years, I have seen, and I believe I am not mistaken, that many of the public property, the public property, will grow in the moonyard of the government. They don't invest and sacrifice their own property to make it better in the country, but they thrive on public property, even to the extent that it leads to hundreds of thousands and millions being eviscerated and crippled. I'm not going to tell you this part of the story, I'm just saying that I'm going to create some basis for visualization so that I can confirm your earlier speech. But to get back to the item on the agenda, I'm going to give you a thought, and I don't want to bore anyone. I would like to say that if you had a calm and clear conscience from the moment of departure in the matter of Paks, if the process that had taken place in the course of Orbán-Putin's negotiations had been visible to everyone, it would have been visible, not to the commoner who had more difficulty in accessing information, but to the Members of Parliament, you know, within the framework of the Economic Committee, that they could not have access to basic information, then I would say that I even understand what they are thinking or how they intend to shape the processes. But at a time when there are huge problems with access to basic information for the Member of Parliament, I say that the way you are walking is because it gives you their , their path of escape, anything else to encrypt things for decades, make them inaccessible, or then take measures with retroactive effect within the framework of new draft laws, I think that this is not going to get you any further. I am not rooting for you, I tell you honestly, in this respect, but I would expect all of you to actually use public funds, and that is what we are doing, because this is not only about Russian loans in connection with the investment in Paks, but also about a lot of other things, so you have to be able to account for it clearly in public. [[15.50]] And it must not only be accounted for, but it must also be made visible in its process, and it must not seek how to hide it from people's eyes. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-03-17-117	I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner.
u2016-03-17-118	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr Bárándy began the speeches, talking about virtually a lot of things; not only what is the subject of the proposal, but also about crimes, although he did not make the mistake of sitting in the benches with his trusted fellow Member this morning, or of not recalling Gábor Simon's activity here, who entered the Camp of Millionaires from the hunger process when his foreign accounts were exposed. But the fact is, he also said a few words about the proposal. I understand the concerns of the socialists when it comes to data processing, the publicity of data, as Congressman Józsa's small deal of 6.6 billion was only revealed after the change of government took place. [[Lajos Korózs: That's not true!]] [[Lajos Korózs: That's not true!]] [[Lajos Korózs: That's not true!]] and practically presented those contracts (Lajos Korózs: That is not true!) Which confirmed that they saved that much money from Paks. (Lajos Korózs: That's not true!) Let's go see the press. [[Intercoms.]] I in press releases before 2010 [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I have not encountered such announcements. I am saying that we have talked about a lot of things, but to say the basic things, I agree with my fellow Member, Lajos Kepli: indeed, there has been a text-pointing here, so it has not become more stringent, the law has not become more open, but, in practice, it has been made clear how the regulatory framework that makes this provision of the Paks II Act in the future can be interpreted in the info law, the Law on Intellectual Property. So, returning to the data, data of public interest, such as the environmental authority itself, has already published on its website data required by the Environmental Protection Act, and they will gradually be made public during the construction process. The other part is the concept of data of general interest. If a person sees this as an unlimited and opaque fundamental right, then I do not think that he is aware of how a state works or how he can protect his citizens, how he can protect his own economy, so we do need these restrictions. It's been 30 years. The law created by the MSZP also had 30 years of encryption time, so do not refer to this fact as a novelty, as it is a rule that is indeed applied and applicable for such high-priority investments in key national security issues. With regard to the operation and construction of the other nuclear power plants in Europe, the same national security aspects play a role there, so this is not only unicum in Hungary, and it is not the instigation of the evil government that hinders the search of the opposition. My fellow Member, Nándor Gúr, mentioned how offensive it is that the Committee on Economic Affairs, the members there, are not able to get to know all the data. In fact, they cannot go public with these data, because they must only be presented to Members at a depth that is necessary for decision-making. In fact, issues affecting intellectual property or reaching such a depth of national security issues do not need to be discussed by a non-competent committee. Member István Ikotity referred to the fact that Brussels would have protected Hungarian citizens here. I think I made it quite clear in the expozee that there was indeed a text agreement with Brussels, but it was just that Brussels did not prescribe anything for us, but that we found a formula that could make the previous regulation clear to them. If I wanted to make the final argument about all of this, as the Minister of Justice has already said, when this debate came up, then ultimately, in these matters, the court decides, so there is an independent forum that can determine whether the controller has overgrown the possibilities that the legislation provides for him or not. Congressman Ikotity had yet another concern, or even Mr Kepli, that the investment would not include technical safety areas that would endanger the environment or the people living in Hungary. All existing Hungarian legal regulations and international conventions apply to this nuclear power plant, so these legal frameworks are given even without knowing the contract, there is no derogation from them, and the competent authorities act on them. So I think this will settle this issue with satisfaction for the future. I'd like to clarify one more thing. Congressman Bárándy mentioned that the Ministry of Justice is here again with this proposal. This proposal was originally presented by the Ministry of National Development as the Ministry of Energy, so I wish I could do this part, but to clarify the data, I would simply record it to be more precise about the facts. Thank you very much, that is all I wanted to add to the comments. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-17-119	Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Monday. Next up is the 2008 XL on gas supply. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/9633. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr András Aradszki, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda.
u2016-03-17-120	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill is the 2008 XL on gas supply. It amends certain provisions of law relating to the provision of resources to universal service providers, such as public and authorised companies providing services to small customers. The purpose of the amendments is to extend the gas supply contracts ending on 30 September 2016 for a period of two years in order to allow universal service providers to have access to the relevant gas sources in the years 2016-2017 and 2017-2018, in line with the ongoing construction of the non-profit utility service for natural gas. This will ensure that consumer security of supply and the results of the reduction of electricity will be sustainable and guaranteed. The bill also contains additional detailed rules relating to source insurance and the extension of contracts, which are as follows. The proposal contains a standardisation of the transposition rules for contracts between the universal service provider and former public utility wholesalers, which have previously been incorporated into the law and have been partly laid down at regulation level, whereby universal service providers may, at the time of receipt, depart by up to 5 per cent from the quantity of natural gas they have previously notified for the months of that quarter and from their receipt, without penalty or other consequences. The proposal provides for detailed rules to be applied in connection with the extension of the source contracts when a universal service provider may withdraw, as well as the possibility to modify storage ties. Finally, this bill clarifies the accounting rules related to the offer, thereby ensuring that the former public utility wholesaler without universal service licence keeps the accounting differences resulting from price regulation in a transparent and separate manner. Dear Parliament, I ask you to discuss this bill and support the government's goals. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-03-17-121	Now it's time for the keynote speech. I give the floor to István Németh Szilárd, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-03-17-122	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, As we have heard from the Secretary of State, T/9633. Legislative bill No.3 intends to amend the Gas Supply Act in order to maintain the process of reducing costs in Hungary in respect of contracts that expire. [[16.00]] Everyone will remember that the opposite processes took place between 2002 and 2010, also when world market prices dropped in quite clear and large volumes from 2008. In 2002, we heard a socialist promise - I'm sure everyone remembers the kind lady who announced - that there would be no gas price increase, and then fifteen times in eight years, energy suppliers who were still fully owned abroad were given the opportunity to increase the price of retail gas on the basis of all kinds of unwarranted announcements, at least mathematically, on the basis of numerical reasons that could not be justified, in a protected market, within the universal service framework, which was designed precisely to protect Hungarian people from indebtedness if any economic problems, any large retail burden were to be felt. This was completely contrary to the process, with prices rising terribly from exactly 2008 onwards. And in 2009, the final measure of the Bajnai government even took away gas price subsidies from people with effect from 1 April 2010 - the first round of elections on 6 April 2010 - and it undertook to do so in an international treaty, the IMF Treaty. So the new government couldn't do anything about it. On the other hand, the new government, when it was able to decide in 2010, froze prices and gave the energy agency only the opportunity to raise prices in the protected market, in the universal service market, below inflation or at the rate of inflation. This also occurred at both gas and electricity retail prices. Then, when we had the opportunity, we reduced the price of gas three times in 2012, until the end of 2014, and the price of gas decreased by more than 25 percent in Hungary. This, in turn, has resulted in significant retail savings, which could be used to settle the debts, the debt decreased by tens of billions forints, it could be spent freely for purchase, and, of course, in savings. So the more money that was left with the families made life easier not only for families, but also for the Hungarian economy. And we arrive at this bill when the first court decisions were taken in February 2012, which in Hungary concern the fact that the Hungarian court, contrary to the interests of the Hungarian people, gave the truth to foreign service providers on the question of reducing the rent. And that's when we came back to Parliament, because the government didn't regulate the reduction of the rent in a government decree, but in a law. Not everyone, because some people did not participate in this process or voted against it. On the other hand, we have strengthened the energy office and thus allowed it to be sustainable and continue to reduce the costs, not only in the area of gas, but also in the area of eight other services. We had to ensure a continuous legislative process to reduce the costs and other consumer protection decisions related to it, just to refer to, say, the definition of the account picture. We can say that there is a very serious social support for the reduction of the rent, because by signing two and a half million people he defended the reduction of the rent on the streets, if you remember by 2013: Hungary will not allow itself, it will not allow the European Union's Corifesas to prevent the better existence of Hungarian people, and it will still have to pay high service fees and be indebted to people. And together, we can also say that we have also defended the independence of the country, the freedom of the country, because we have defended the decisions that the Hungarian Government and a large part of the Hungarian Parliament have taken here in favour of the Hungarian people in the Parliament or at government meetings. Continued legislation is now under way, with the reasons for which the contracts of the Hungarian Natural Gas Dealer, MOL and other players will expire, and there will be no change in end prices, i.e. the final consumer prices payable by the people, by Hungarian families, so we must make these decisions. I would like to announce that the Fidesz-KDNP supports the bill before us in its entirety - once again, in order to maintain the reduction of the rent - and I ask my fellow Members to support the bill tabled by the government, which is pursuing the policy of reducing the rent, so that more money remains for the Hungarian people, the Hungarian families. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-03-17-123	I now give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2016-03-17-124	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As Szilárd Németh said earlier, the gas supply contracts will expire, I think this autumn may be 30 September. So it is legal that there is a need for a step-by-step extension of these source contracts, obviously in order for consumers to have access to natural gas. With regard to universal service providers, the Hungarian Natural Gas Dealer leaves a maximum of 5 per cent difference in a given quarter when taking natural gas from Privately Operating Company. That's okay, that's not what's wrong. As regards universal service providers, this is set out in the Annex to this Decision. CHAPTER IX The 30th spring contract will be extended for two years, and that is also fine, as 2018. CHAPTER IX Until 30, you can see what is happening, on the one hand, through the Hungarian Natural Gas Trading Company and, on the other hand, through MOL's Open Stock Company. What is a problem and a problem is, in fact, that the Hungarian Gas Dealer Zrt. within its framework, a so-called regulatory account is set up. In fact, this regulatory account is about recording the accounting differences resulting from price regulation. This would not be a problem in itself, because this is about me training the story well, that, in the case of, say, cheap purchases, the difference between the prices recognised in the regulation is practically recorded in a separate account - placed in a quotation mark - and I think you're thinking that if this doesn't happen, but vice versa, it can compensate for losses. But let's see what's really going on, what's going on, let's say, over the last two years. The fact is that the price of natural gas purchased from imports decreased by about 50 percent. He's down about 50 percent! I'm sure you'll remember that I don't want to go towards oil prices right now, but there was a drop of more than 70 percent, but let's stick to natural gas, the price of imported natural gas is about 50 percent lower. My basic problem and my basic problem is that profit, return, doesn't land on people. Thus, there is a significant price decrease - moderate, since the price of imported natural gas has been halved - and the benefits of this, the profits and returns of this do not land with humans. [[16.10]] People actually pay more than the gas costs, not just profiteers of the story, but the victims. I'm sure there's a beneficiary, a search, a search, a search, a search. You know I don't need to talk about this anymore. So today... Szilárd Németh left because he is likely to perform an important task of public interest, or perhaps it would have been more difficult to bear the thoughts he had spoken, perhaps disproved by opposition politicians. So I have to say, today, this is the Fidesz reduction, which, of course, includes the Christian Democrats. This. This is your reduction in costs, i.e. if there is a moderate reduction in gas prices in this case and not from one month to the next, from one week to the next, not within the framework of a hectic relationship where there are pulsations, but in its process, based on a two-year period, a moderate reduction of 50 percent, then the consumer, the citizen, sees nothing, pays no less. Well, that's your reduction in the rent. While looking at whether, for example, we can expect an increase in gas prices at international level in the coming period, there are many prognosiss that can be read, but among these prognosises are difficult to find, which would be about an increase in price in the foreseeable future. In fact, there are prognosiss that are more about access to imported natural gas from the current situation, even from the current price level, in a sense and to some extent at a lower price level. So there's nothing else to say, and I can't say anything else, that my fellow members of the Government, shouldn't be profiting on people, while talking about the fact that there's a reduction in the rent. No. Instead, if the God on the world market is already engaged in processes that bring about a moderate reduction in the availability of natural gas in terms of prices, this should be reflected in the service charges, i.e. also in the availability price. Do not be taken away from people, even when there are better conditions for access to natural gas! Don't take me, give them! In other cases, even if it were not so, it should be pursued that, in particular, those who suffer their daily lives in times of extreme distress, there should be compensation to a certain extent, simply in order to move towards justice. You are reluctant to use this because a fair price reduction would actually be something in the present situation and could be done with a calm spirit from the side of cover, which would be about, say, a reduction in heating costs of about 20 per cent by average consumption. And why do I say "average consumption"? It is simply because people who have to devote a significant proportion of their earned income to, say, preparing for a winter heating period, because they cannot finance it from their winter incomes, but also in spring, summer and autumn, in some sense, regrettably, but they also care that they are saving, there should be a particularly helpful hand. So there is no reason for me to say that, to the extent of average consumption, in today's situation, I would feel at ease that a 20% reduction in heating costs would be put into effect. Then it would be felt by their behavior and their actions that you have some social sensitivity. At a time when they do, however, that while the world market price for natural gas, the price of natural gas from imports is falling by 50 percent, while people are paying more than it costs, this is unacceptable - and you are talking about cutting costs. Don't you feel this dissonance, this contradiction, with a calm spirit, this insolence? Doesn't the red burn on their faces? So, I think that you don't have to lie in people's eyes, no, but when and when they have the opportunity, they do, at least when they have a reasonable margin of discretion and opportunity, they would do and act for it. There is one more thing that I would like to raise, and that is that February 2016 may - if I remember the date correctly - have been in Moscow when Orbán visited and negotiated with Putin. The agreement that I know about him, because you don't know everything about him, but you can't get all the information, it was basically something about extending gas security, not to 2008 but to 2009 It's gonna be a year late. That's all the commoner knows and knows about it. But if this is the case that an extra year of security is so to say with regard to gas supply contracts, then why is this not integrated within the framework of this bill? Then why 2008. CHAPTER IX Why is it not 2009... sorry, not 2008 but 30 September 2018 but not 30 September 2019 in this draft law? If you already have an agreement on this plus one year, why doesn't it appear here in this bill? Isn't it this Russian contract that makes you not want to lower your price here as an example? I'm telling you, when there's been a 50 percent drop in gas access over the last two years. Isn't there just a connection here that needs to be compensated in some way? It would be nice to see and understand what that agreement is all about. Is it really in the interests of the Hungarian people or is it about something else altogether? In this respect, the Secretary of State may be able to provide some information to the Members of Parliament and to the commoner, so that he may be able to adjust better. But in the midst of closing thoughts, I cannot and will not talk about anything other than the matter of reducing the rent itself. Once again, to burn in order to make it clear to everyone: you do not ensure that gas prices fall by 50% to the general public. Gas prices are dropping, and the public is paying the same amount as before, and you're talking about cuts in overhead. The price of electricity or the price of district heating, when do they appear, so to speak, in terms of the reduction in prices of oil and natural gas at the level of service charges? When are they going to make sure that if these processes are truly tangible and there are price changes from one week to the next, from one month to the next, but can be taken within a long, long period of time, they would try to adjust and change the rate of service charges for the benefit of people? [[16.20]] I don't think so. You don't seem to be touched by this. I see you're thinking about how, and how, government profits can be made, which can be used well on other branches, on other surfaces, perhaps towards buddies. This isn't right. That's not your job. Your job is to act in the interests of the people, as a result of their role as governments. And what I see is that you don't really care, you don't really care, because whatever happens, which makes it possible to serve the interests of the people, you don't turn and use it in the interests of the people, you take it in a completely different direction. [[Márius Révész: Have you read the law?]] Yeah, I read the law. [[Márius Révész: It doesn't look like it.]] Yeah, you should read it, too, and then maybe we could get ahead of ourselves. The whole point of the story is that - that's all! - that even when there are moderate price decreases, we don't talk about cuts in overhead, we do that, we do that. Once that is what the pro-government representatives will do in Parliament's walls, it will be possible to give recognition to these processes - not until then. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-17-125	I now give the floor to Attila Móring József, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2016-03-17-126	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Szilárd Németh, the lead speaker of Fidesz, has already presented in detail the essential elements of the bill before us, and I would just like to emphasise two important points. With the planned amendment of the law, the results of the reduction of the rent in the next two gas years, i.e. 2016-2017 and 2017-2018 gas years, are certainly sustainable. As a result of the measures taken by the Fidesz-KNDP government, the price of residential natural gas decreased by more than 25 percent in three steps by the end of 2014: 10 percent, 11.1 percent and 6.5 percent, which made life significantly easier for all Hungarian private consumers. As a reminder, socialist governments have tripled the price of gas between 2002 and 2010. The bill is 5. The other important amendment contained in Section 2 of this Article is that former public utility wholesalers, which no longer hold a universal service provider's licence or whose licence expires later, must record their accounting differences resulting from price regulation in a transparent and separate manner, i.e. in a so-called regulatory account. I think that transparency is particularly important here, as in all other areas. I trust that this proposal and all the proposals that the Fidesz-KDNP administration intends to reduce the burden on the population will also be supported by the opposition. The KDNP fraction supports the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. A moment's pause.]]
u2016-03-17-127	I give the floor to Lajos Kepli, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-03-17-128	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm sorry, I didn't think KDNP's keynote speech would be so short, even though I don't plan on giving my own for a very long time. Basically, we heard from the Secretary of State of Aradsk a proposal that gave a professional basis and explained why this law had to be brought before Parliament, and why we, Parliament, had to accept it in order that these conditions would be sustainable until September 2018. By the way, we consider this to be eligible, and I will state right from the start that the bill is likely to be supported in the final vote as well. Then came Szilárd Németh, who reached back a little to the habony panels, communication panels, and reduced overhead and the past eight years, for the period 2002-2010 - let us note in brackets: rightly - he criticized the socialist-social government's actions in this matter. Then came the Hungarian Socialist Party, and they contrasted, in Hungarian: we witnessed the usual sandbox here in the National Assembly. I don't want to get involved in this right now. What I would like to note is that, indeed, Hungary's gas supply is an extremely important issue; the fact that Hungarian society, the Hungarian population, receives natural gas at the cheapest possible cost, has the natural gas through universal service providers is again of social, social or national interest. Therefore, we usually support legislative proposals that start in such a way that they make this possible. Another question - and it has already been raised here - is why, in September 2018 and not until September 2019, this option or this date is pushed out with this bill, and the other, going in a more theoretical direction, how Hungary's supply of gas will be ensured in the longer term for the period between 2018 and 19 days. Of course, this is not the time for Parliament to discuss whether it is still worthwhile to conclude a long-term gas supply contract as a Member State of the European Union under the circumstances of this age, or to obtain gas volumes at stock prices at present. Of course, there is a security of supply if there is a long-term gas supply contract, but the question of how much Hungary pays is raised, how much more will it pay for gas than if it were to obtain it at the stock exchange or market prices which, as has been said, are much lower than when the last gas supply contracts were concluded. These are, once again, long-term issues, but very important issues, because it is okay to conclude a long-term gas supply contract with Russia, but at the moment there is no guarantee of how this natural gas will reach Hungary after 2019-2020. At the moment, we are talking about Russia saying that it will not transport natural gas to the European Union through Ukraine from 2020; the agreement between Russia and Germany on the doubling of the capacity of the Nord Stream gas pipeline was reached, and we do not know at the moment on the southern detour that there is any pipeline plan or alternative that would deliver Russian natural gas to Hungary, so we are in practice now, after 2020, or at least, to the best of my knowledge, we will only be able to transport more gas to Europe through Germany and the North Stream, and we will probably be able to recover this quantity of gas from the west in Hungary. Of course, the shipments of liquefied natural gas from various other sources and others will be added, but we remain essentially dependent on natural gas in Russia, because geographically it is perhaps the closest and most accessible quantities. So, in addition to ensuring that the results of the so-called reductions are sustainable in the coming years, we also need to start thinking in the longer term, even if not within the framework of this bill, but it would also be good for Parliament to deal with how Hungary's natural gas supply will be ensured in the coming decades. By the way - and we have never concealed this - we consider the reduction to be a political product, but we have supported and supported every bill that brings various discounts and discounts to the Hungarian population in the context of the reduction of debts to Parliament, because we have a duty to support any measure that will make the monthly burden of Hungarians even a few forints easier. In many cases, this was an apparent drop in prices, and often it didn't really appear, and especially for people most in need, it didn't appear in their accounts or in their monthly bills as a reduction or a discount, yet we supported these bill proposals. [[16.30]] I don't think this is how the government should have done it. Indeed, if you had done this reduction a little smarter and not pushed it down society's throat as a kind of political product thinking about the 2014 elections, it would have been possible to save more on the basis of market prices and price reductions, even by distinguishing preferences according to the social situation. In English, large consumers, those who use large quantities, are entitled to less benefits than the most deprived families. In English, a social and social situation would require a differentiation of the rent reduction. Every time such an energy bill - a law on the supply of gas, a law on electricity or any other law - comes before Parliament, we always say so, because these are fundamental issues. They are very important for Hungary's security of supply, for the Hungarian people's overhead costs. In addition to supporting this bill, I would also ask the Secretary of State to answer these questions in the closing words, if not first, and to reassure us that the current government of Hungary is dealing with these issues, and in the long term see Hungary's security of supply, the gas available at the appropriate cost, at the appropriate price, or even the other energy carriers. Since not only until 2018, and not only until the elections, people will use energy sources, but also, in our hope and certainly after, when you are no longer likely to be in government, we think that we need to think about these issues in a cross-border and long-term strategy. In conclusion, with what I started, I will conclude by saying that this bill is likely to be supported in the final vote, too, so that we can show our constructive opposition, and that when issues come here that are conducive to or continue processes that are favourable to Hungarian society, we will not put any obstacles to it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-03-17-129	We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I now give the floor to Congressman László Teleki.
u2016-03-17-130	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would really argue with those who only say that the workers in the government of 2002-2010 can do that the price of gas has not changed. Then we had to follow a global gas price, and that's why we had to consider it. Today, when it comes to the reduction of the rent, Lajos Kepli said very well that the most deprived are not affected by the reduction of the rent. So it is incomprehensible to me that, today, when it is possible to talk about gas price reductions, the most important issue is still the reduction in the cost of gas. Why? We do not say it, and we do not want to say that, in many cases, they are not affected by the reduction of the rent or even by the reduction of gas prices, who cannot use this service and cannot use it because they do not have the opportunity to introduce gas because of their social situation. The government does not think of the opportunity and assistance it intends to offer - neither in this law, nor in the reduction of the rent - to compensate for them, and to provide the heat in this case, or even the opportunity to cook for large families or even the poor. Therefore, I think that if we break down the country into parts, it is possible to see that most people in North Hungary, East Hungary, still fire with wood, who belong to the poor layer, and that fire with wood is not compensated by any system of gas, either by reducing gas prices or by reducing gas costs. Therefore, I suggest that in such a case, the government should consider the assistance that those who fall out of this situation can offer. But I'd like to go on with a few thoughts: yes, the reduction of the rent was all about a political product - I would say so - and a honey business. This was about keeping those voters, or getting more voters together for the Fidesz government, before whom it can be shown that something has happened, even though if we break down the various resources, it is not as good a reduction as it is for anyone to have it introduced in public opinion, how important it is and how good it is. There must be some savings, but I would also like to say once again that there is not enough for everyone to cut the bills, so we can use either the word "political product" or the withdrawal of the honey business in front of the electorate in order to keep the voters. As a result, it can only be said here that either the reduction of gas prices or the revision of the reduction in overhead costs would be very much necessary in order to achieve social media even more, because this policy cannot achieve it. Finally, all I have to do is think, I think, in the law, there's a lot to see, that it doesn't help those poor layers of people I've been talking about again, and those big families I've mentioned in this matter. It can be seen that the current government is not trying to reduce energy prices, in this case gas prices, but to stagnate or try to address this issue in a different way. Therefore, I would ask the government and call on them to think about how they can help the most disadvantaged, the poor, to the extent that they can have access to the energy to ensure the warmth of the family. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-17-131	I am asking my fellow Members if anyone would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I give the floor to the Secretary of State to respond to what has been said.
u2016-03-17-132	Dear House, In the beginning, I would like to thank the Members - because only gentlemen have spoken to this debate - for their support for the content of the bill itself. With regard to the rest of your spinal cords, what I can say, in particular, what Congressman Nándor Gúr said, not about the notary pulpit, but from here, from behind me, is that I am really trying to explain to the notary what the 50 percent reduction in the gas price you are demanding is. You obviously know, Mr honourable Member, Mr notary, that in recent decades the gas price has been established in an indexed way to the oil price, so it has always depended on the oil price, and a higher oil price has later emerged in the form of a higher gas price. This situation has changed gradually from around 2010 onwards, and today we have reached the point that only 25 percent of the price of that molecule is the oil-indexed part, the other 75 percent is defined by so-called stock exchange, commercial and market pricers. In addition, I have to say that the molecular price that Hungarian consumers pay for universal service users is about 20 percent of the price that is the raw material itself, i.e. the cost of gas. The rest are system charges that are necessary to deliver the relevant gas to consumers, the consumer can open the gas tap and cook, bathe and engage in other activities. It follows to me - despite being a law student and studying law, mathematics is not my strong suit, but I still remember from primary school - that if one thing is 20 percent of a given set, a 50 percent reduction does not mean a 50 percent reduction in the whole set. I'm trying to explain that even if we reduce the price of 20 percent of the gas in a given universal service provider price by 50 percent, there will never be a 50 percent reduction for the end user. It follows, honourable Member, that you should try to think about this, and then not in such a populist way, with populism rising to the height of Gyula Thürmer, demand a 50 percent reduction in the gas price of universal service providers. [[Nándor Gúr: Read the report!]] It follows that I cannot accept the argument you have made in this regard. I believe that this proposal is precisely what makes the steps that follow from the gas price evolution over the long term, for two years, predictable, i.e. when and how we can implement and continue to reduce gas costs. [[16.40]] I believe that you and Mr Lajos Kepli had a worthy suggestion as to why the restrictions had not been defined until 2019. This is a matter of consideration, and it is likely that we will think about it, but I must add that we have two more years to make a meaningful decision on this. Interestingly, it has also been said that you, who have tripled the price of gas between 2002 and 2010, have doubled the price of electricity, suggesting that it was because you had to obtain gas at world market prices, and this has brought about this huge increase in gas prices and electricity prices. But the interesting situation between 2002 and 2010, my fellow Members, was that while the price of gas was tripled by reference to world market prices and the price of electricity was doubled, the service providers, which were multinationals, increased their profits in the same proportion. Why didn't you have the courage to do what the Fidesz-KDNP government had the courage to do in 2010 to go against the interests of multinational companies in 2010-2011, I think we froze gas prices and electricity prices, and then in 2012 or 13 we made a cut in the face of multinational companies and reduced the electricity and gas prices by a significant percentage, but also water, of course. Why didn't you have such courage? Why didn't they demand a reduction in gas prices when multinational companies had the service? They wanted to protect their profits? Why do they demand it so loudly when it is in national hands and the regulation of the gas price is in the hands of the state when it can be said that the Fidesz-KDNP government has in any case implemented a significant reduction in the cost of gas over the past period? I must also add that it was interestingly said here that not everyone is affected by the reduction of the rent. I'm not sure there's gonna be a debate between us. But I have to add that the reduction in the cost of the molecule has decreased by a percentage in the universal service area. This percentage means that otherwise citizens who consume lower quantities pay lower molecular prices than consumers in higher quantities. So the double price system that supported large family members remained, so the gas price adapted to consumption for them is in any case lower than the higher volume of gas for consumers. So in this respect, it must be said that the social sensitivity that we are otherwise proud of has remained in the system and that we do not want to change it anymore. Regarding the Russian Treaty: we are always asked by the socialists what is in the Russian Treaty in terms of price, and there must be some big secret. Ladies and gentlemen, This contract was concluded under your regency. I'm sure you know, much better than we do, what's in that contract. Here, tell us sometime, because we'd be very happy to see what's in that contract. The fact is that we will have the right until 2019 and we have the right to draw down the quantities in which we had previously agreed with the Russian partner. That is how much longer the long-term delivery contract previously concluded is going to be. I believe that these are serious issues, and I am very pleased to hear from Mr Lajos Kepli about what will happen to the security of gas supply in the future. Indeed, this is a sensible debate. It is also a sensible debate as to whether we need a long-term contract. I believe that the long-term treaty can also be a guarantee of security, but we cannot spare the use of other resources, diversified resources, to ensure gas supply. In this respect, Hungary looks good and has taken all the steps that are technically necessary. We have cross-border capacity with all neighbouring countries except Slovenia. It is not our fault, and I do not want to arouse the moods here, but there are countries that do not ensure the functioning of our cross-border capacities in the face of EU requirements, but I see, Mr President, that there is a shift in this too. There is a kind of cooperation with the countries of south-eastern Europe and Central Europe to develop interconnectivity. In this respect, the EU's PCA list prioritises these interconnectivity and hopefully alternative routes will be established by 2019 to replace not only the falling Russian-Ukrainian transit, although I am not quite sure that this will fall out, this is not a rational step in business, but also an alternative to Nord Stream 2. I believe that Hungary's security of supply has been strengthened over the last 3-4 years, given the creation of interconnectivity, and it is worth counting on, and this bill serves to manage possible further price reductions in the system, and to anticipate the fundamentals of the reduction of overhead. I have to say this in closing, and I think that I said this this morning in connection with a speech before the agenda, too, that, contrary to the period 2002-2010, when the government of the increase was in power, the Fidesz-KDNP government is now hoping to go into history with the government of the reduction of the rent and, to this end, it is necessary to adopt this bill, so that we can achieve this goal in a transparent and clear way in the next period. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-03-17-133	Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Monday. We now have a general debate on the bill to amend certain laws concerning the Erzsébet programme until closure. The government referral is T/9636. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr László Palkovics, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, author of the item on the agenda.
u2016-03-17-134	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I would like to give a brief account of the reasons for and the objectives of the amendment to the Act on the Elizabeth Programme. The French multinationals attacked the Erzsébet programme unfairly, complaining that a new financing model was created by the revolutionary transformation of the regime outside the Hungarian wage, which not only kept the main part of the revenue in Hungary, but also used it to implement a unique social holiday programme at European level, taking into account the interests of the Hungarian people. During the infringement proceedings launched in 2011, the European Court of Justice did not take the Hungarian position into account. With respect to the decision of the European Court of Justice, the Hungarian Government has decided not to allow the Erzsébet programme of the Hungarian people to be lost despite the French lobbying interests. The Erzsébet programme was launched in 2012 as a recognised programme of social solidarity and responsibility across Europe, with a framework for the CIII of 2012 on the Erzsébet programme. He was created by law. As a source of the program, the Act marked the financial result of the sale of the Erzsébet voucher issued by the Hungarian National Holiday Foundation, which made it possible to operate holiday and camping programmes without budgetary support in the first years. The new, unique funding model of the Erzsébet programme in Europe has ensured that a significant part of the market revenues of non-wage benefits remain in the country and serve the Hungarian people. The Erzsébet programme has become the largest social holiday and child camp project in the last two decades, which is also Europe's largest social tourism project. The Erzsébet programme has provided more than 600 thousand people, more than 300 thousand children from the motherland and abroad, with a holiday and camping opportunity. This year, the Erzsébet programme will provide nearly 250 000 adults and children with the opportunity to participate in a meaningful recreation, rest, in a residential or day care camp, after paying a symbolic part of themselves, between HUF 500 and 5000. [[16.50]] In February, the judgment of the European Court of Justice in the infringement proceedings relating to the domestic regulation of non-wage allowances found that certain elements of the regulation on Erzsébet vouchers were in conflict with EU law. The Government has also begun a review of the legislation on non-wage benefits, while respecting the decision of the Court of Justice. However, the government's position has not changed with regard to the nature and real objectives of the procedure: at the initiative of French companies, EU organisations in the infringement proceedings against the Erzsébet voucher actually attacked the Erzsébet programme, endangering the foundations of one of the EU's most successful social solutions. With the decision of the European Court of Justice, the financial background of the Erzsébet programme has been put at risk, making it necessary to partially modify the funding of the Erzsébet programme and its organisational background, since the government's objective remains to protect the programme established over the past half decade. The preparation of the bill was also justified by the recent disruptions in the functioning of the trade unions exercising the founding rights of the Hungarian National Holiday Foundation. The Deputy Chairman of the Hungarian National Holiday Foundation was recalled by the delegation trade union association and informed the Foundation about this. The problem is compounded by the fact that the vice-president, in accordance with the articles of association, is entitled, in cooperation with the chairman of the Board, to the provision of the bank account, which is required to be amended by the Registry Court. The objective of the bill to be negotiated is to transform the organisational background and funding of the Erzsébet programme. The reform of the Erzsébet programme, as proposed by law, contributes to a more effective and long-term safe implementation of social recreation and child and youth protection programmes, such as camping tasks. This made it necessary to amend the Erzsébet Programme Act. The government is determined to establish the largest children's camping program of all time, regardless of French interests. The 2012 CIII. According to the Hungarian National Holiday Foundation, the implementation of the Erzsébet programme is ensured. According to the bill, Erzsébet's Foundation for Children in the Carpathian Basin will take over in the future the organisational and management tasks of children's and youth programmes, including children's and youth camps. With this step, the exclusive relationship between the Erzsébet programme and the Hungarian National Holiday Foundation will be terminated. In recent years, the Erzsébet Foundation for Children in the Carpathian Basin has developed its public benefit activities specifically for the recreation of children in the Carpathian Basin. The founding rights of the Foundation are exercised by the Szent Ágota Child Protection Service with decades of experience in the field of child camping, founded by the Diocese of Szeged-Csanádi. According to the bill now being submitted, the Hungarian National Holiday Foundation will in the future carry out activities related to social recreation, social catering, the payment of social and child protection subsidies under a separate law in the Erzsébet voucher. Thus, the Hungarian National Holiday Foundation remains responsible for the implementation of programmes for families and large families, people with disabilities and pensioners, among others, as part of the social holiday. It is important to stress that the winners of the applications announced this year will be able to use the support they received, and there will be no change in the holiday. It is also important to know, House, that the execution of the judgment of the European Court of Justice does not affect the results of the Erzsébet vouchers which have already been placed on the market and the incomes of vouchers that have been used specifically in the social sphere, such as for the protection of children. In view of this, the revenues of the Erzsébet voucher continue to be the source of the public tasks in the case of the Hungarian National Holiday Foundation. According to the bill to be negotiated, the Erzsébet Foundation for Children in the Carpathian Basin is operated by the State. Based on the bill, the infrastructure background of the Erzsébet programme is also transformed: Erzsébet Vagyonkezelő Kft. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: First, with the entry into force of the law, the low efficiency Balatonberény camp and the right of trustee of certain properties belonging to the National Land Fund which are not directly used in the programme will be abolished. According to the provisions of the Act, which will enter into force on 1 September 2016, the property of Erzsébet Holiday Centre and Tábor Zánka, which serves as the location of children's and youth camps, as well as the property of Erzsébet Tábor Fonyód, will be owned by the Erzsébet Foundation for Children in the Carpathian Basin. The contracts necessary for the free transfer of property are the Hungarian National Property Management Ltd. He's preparing it. In view of the fact that certain properties in Zanka currently have forests, it is proposed that the transfer of property also applies to new marketable properties with the necessary land formations prior to the transfer. The bill explicitly states that the transfer of property is to carry out public tasks as defined in the Elisabeth Act. The 2011 CXCVI on national assets. By virtue of the provisions of Law No 13, the property transferred free of charge is subject, by virtue of the law, to a prohibition of disposal for a period of 15 years. During this period, the owner is obliged to use the property for the purpose of carrying out the public task, to preserve the state of the property and to report on the exploitation of the property on an ongoing basis. The guarantee rules include that if the former owner's right holder experiences a failure to comply with the public service obligation, he may demand or withdraw from the contract, depending on its weight. All these provisions ensure, in the long term, that properties in Zánka and Fonyód serve as locations for children's and youth camps. The bill also provides that Erzsébet Vagyonkezelő Kft. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: This provision also concerns a hotel in Siófok, Balatonvilágos and Nyíregyháza, as well as property in Balatonősöd, formerly visited by civil servants as a government resort. The efficient operation of these properties, which are currently used in social recreation, is not possible, or can only be done with significant costs, due to the deteriorated state of the buildings. According to the government's vision, the aid granted under the Erzsébet programme will be available to beneficiaries in the domestic accommodation services market in the future. The bill to be submitted now also clarifies the provisions of the Act on Property Offered for the benefit of the Hungarian National Holiday Foundation concerning the use of the income of the Erzsébet voucher. On the basis of the clarification, the Foundation is obliged not only to pay a voucher for the purchase of a food ready for consumption as provided for in the Income Tax Act, but also to use all Erzsébet's vouchers issued under the Erzsébet Programme Act for the purposes of the programme. This brings the text of the law into line with the provisions of the Elisabeth Programme Act. CXVII of 1995 on personal income tax The law will also be amended. The bill contains a short amendment in addition to the rules of the Personal Income Tax Act on tax-free aid. According to this, the benefit which the individual receives from the resources of the Erzsébet programme under the rules of the Erzsébet Programme Act is considered to be exempt from public benefits. The provision is essential in principle, given that the aid paid from the public benefit foundation in accordance with the provisions of the articles of association is currently exempt from tax. The 2011 CLXX on the free ownership of certain public and municipal properties and the provision of housing for natural persons who cannot fulfil their obligations under the credit agreement. CXVIII of 2013 amending Act No. The law will also be amended. The investment necessary for the completion of the Erzsébet Square Cultural Centre and Park in the centre of the capital is II. In 2013 and 14 years, the government decided to complete its pace in the framework of the Erzsébet programme. After more than a decade of forced break, the investment was also awarded international recognition: the European Property Awards for Best Public Development were won by the Erzsébet Square Cultural Center in 2014. The facility is proposed not to serve the objectives of the Elizabeth Programme directly in the future. To this end, the owner of the property, the Hungarian National Property Manager Zrt. - in addition to the clearing of the investment - terminates the contracts with Erzsébet Vagyonkezelő Kft., which carries out the investment. The amount resulting from the return on investment is intended to cover public tasks under the Erzsébet programme. The operation of Erzsébet tér Cultural Center and Park will no longer be carried out by a legal person belonging to the Erzsébet programme, and the selection of the new operator will be carried out by the Hungarian National Asset Management Ltd., which exercises ownership rights. He'll make a decision. The present bill expressly states that the tasks associated with the development and maintenance of the green surfaces of the square will be performed in the future by the V. District Municipality of Budapest, Budapest-Lipótváros. Dear House, Based on what you've said, I'm asking you to support T/9636. Our bill number 1. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-03-17-135	Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor first to Márius Révész, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-03-17-136	Dear Parliament, The Erzsébet programme has become one of Europe's largest social programmes in recent years, and I think that we can all be proud of that, and this programme is definitely worth preserving. On 6 July 2012, the Parliament adopted the Act on the Erzsébet programme, which was established in order to revive the traditions of St. Elizabeth, building on the creation of the resources associated with it and on social solidarity. [[17.00]] The Erzsébet programme provides opportunities for recreation, including for pensioners, large families, disabled people and children, with a wide range of social aspects. The Erzsébet programme will carry out tasks related to social recreation and catering, participation in youth and child protection programmes, the payment of social and child protection assistance under a separate law in the Erzsébet voucher, and organisational and management tasks related to the performance of other social tasks. The Erzsébet programme pays particular attention to children, large families, people with disabilities and pensioners. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] With the support of the Government of Hungary, the largest holiday and camping program of the last two decades has been established in Hungary in five years. Just to be clear about the numbers, allow me to give you some data. In the Erzsébet camps, children from both motherland and abroad can enjoy a meaningful holiday, while the Erzsébet daycare camps offer a solution for a meaningful holiday. In 2012, 50 thousand children, almost 80 thousand in 2013, more than 80 thousand children in 2014 and more than 100 thousand children in 2015 had access to recreation, recreation and camping within the Erzsébet programme. Once again, last year, more than 100,000 children have been camped under this programme. If you look at the numbers in total, more than 600 thousand people have so far had more than 300 thousand children to spend their vacation and rest. The winners of more than 120 thousand social holidays were able to use the aid in one of the more than 40 accommodations participating in the Erzsébet programme, and the pensioners of the spa-passing contest could use it at nearly 80 spa- and spa-service providers. There is a very simple condition for using the holiday allowance: if a person has received the aid, the condition is only to pay the self-strength specified in the notices. With the payment of self-esteem within the deadline, the Foundation considers the aid to be granted. This self-esteem is also quite friendly, for a one-week camping period of HUF 5 000 for adults, for children between 3-14 years of age 2500 forints, for children who spend time with the family, and for children under three years of age, the use of the holiday service is free of charge. I think it's no coincidence that this program has been such a success in recent years. Since the start of the Erzsébet programme, the Erzsébet programme has paid particular attention to the service of the special life-style applicants, thus, following continuous consultation with interest protection organisations, it has included in the offer of accommodation accommodation for disabled applicants, which fully meet the specific needs of the applicants, including the physical design of the external-internal spaces of the resort and the professional skills of staff. Under the Erzsébet programme, the camping of Hungarian children in Transcarpathia was a priority project in 2015. The Government of Hungary invited all Hungarian children living in Transcarpathia to Hungary for a week, within which nearly 3,000 children camped in the 10 weeks of summer, while 250 children camped in the Erzsébet Camp in Zanka and Iva. This successful initiative will continue in 2016, i.e. we are waiting for children from Transcarpathia who have not yet participated in the Erzsébet camp, thus strengthening cross-border Hungarian-Hungarian relations. In recent years, the number of children in the Erzsébet camp has increased fivefold. Last year, 15,000 children attended Erzsébet Daycare Camp. The organizers of the program strive to allow more and more public education institutions to allow their students to spend a week or two in the school area cheerfully and efficiently, under teacher supervision, with a series of programmes for the topic. We plan to launch a large-scale national daycare camping program this year, including forest schools and other camping sites. These camps will also be able to practice a foreign language or mathematics, and children will learn. The program of the camps will basically be based on playful activity, and it will also be possible for children to learn to ride, swim or play chess. The Erzsébet programme had to be redesigned, in any event, because the judgment of the European Court of Justice in the infringement procedure in relation to the domestic regulation of benefits other than wages found that the regulation on Erzsébet vouchers was in conflict with EU law. The government has also started a review of the legislation on non-wage benefits, while respecting the decision. However, the government's position has not changed with regard to the nature of the procedure and its real objectives. In fact, at the initiative of French companies, the Erzsébet programme was attacked by EU organisations in their infringement proceedings against the Erzsébet voucher, endangering the foundations of an extremely successful social programme. The decision put in jeopardy the financial background of the Erzsébet programme, and it is therefore necessary to amend the financing of the Erzsébet programme and its organisational background in part. Mr State Secretary also mentioned that the preparation of the bill was also justified by some recent disruptions in the functioning of trade unions exercising the founding rights of the Hungarian National Holiday Foundation. The Erzsébet Foundation for Children in the Carpathian Basin was founded in 2012 by Hunguest Vagyonkezelő Zrt. and the purpose of the Foundation is to camp Hungarian children across the border within the framework of the Erzsébet programme in the spirit of the 2012 Erzsébet Programme Act. The Foundation cooperates with the Erzsébet Vagyonkezelő Kft., which operates the camp at the foot of Madarasi-Harghita in the Ivo settlement. founded by a company. Those who do not know, Ivo is located in Transylvania, Harghita County, about 25 kilometers from Székelyudvarhely. This Erzsébet camp is located on more than 2.5 hectares of land on the border of the settlement. The founding rights of Hunguest Vagyonkezelő Zrt. On 29 January 2016, he transferred it to the Szent Ágota Child Protection Service. The new practitioner of the founding rights is the ecclesiastical legal person founded by the Szeged-Csanádi Diocese. The Szent Ágota Child Protection Service provider is one of Hungary's largest child protection specialist systems, which performs national methodological tasks for children's homes and foster-parent networks from 17 September 2013 to all Catholic ecclesiastical institutions. The Szent Ágota Child Protection Service provider provides nearly 3,500 young people in Csongrád, Békés, Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok, Bács-Kiskun, Pest and Komárom-Esztergom counties and the capital. The professional responsibility of the Szent Ágota Child Protection Service provider in the field of protection of children and youth in Hungary extends to almost 13 counties in addition to its own system of maintenance and management, along with other Catholic ecclesiastical institutions. During the organisation and conduct of the annual Ágota camps, the Foundation has gained experience in the recreation of children and in the recreational practice for young people who are socially in need and otherwise at risk of living conditions, both in the programme compilation and in the development of the professional supervision and voluntary system. When the Erzsébet programme started in 2012 and in its first years, it provided for the implementation of social recreation and youth children's programmes without involving any budgetary resources. For the first time in 2015, the government decided on budget support for the public mission. In 2016, the revenue of the Erzsébet voucher will be used to carry out this task, so that the appropriations in the ELMI budget chapter will be used entirely for the organisation of youth and children's camps and for the operation of the Erzsébet Foundation for Children in the Carpathian Basin. Based on the bill, Erzsébet Vagyonkezelő Kft. the right of a trustee is terminated in several steps. Some low-utilisation camps cease to exist, some of the properties in Zánka, which were not part of the youth center, but roads, side-rooms, are removed from its scope and are transferred to the National Land Fund Management Organisation. [[17.10]] From 1 September 2016, the properties of Zánka and Fonyód will be owned by the Erzsébet Foundation for Children in the Carpathian Basin in the bill and its justification. For this reason, land design is necessary because of the forests in the area. As there is no possibility to dispose of forests due to the special rules on national assets, the current asset management site formation and, if necessary, the forest claim procedure should be conducted. The operation of the cultural centre and park in Erzsébet Square is also an interesting feature. This will not be operated in the future by a legal person belonging to the Elizabeth Programme. About the selection of the new operator, the Hungarian National Property Management Ltd. make a decision. The proposal, as Mr Secretary of State has said, also explicitly provides for the green surface development and maintenance of the space, which will be provided in the future by the municipality of the City of Lipótváros, District V. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose and ask for the support of the proposed bill. I think that we all have a shared responsibility to keep the social holiday day care programme of a remarkable size in Europe for the future. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-17-137	Thank you, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Lukács, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-17-138	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr President, When we talk about the Erzsébet program and its transformation, now it concerns a part of the whole, we have to start a little further, because here we could listen practically to the operation, then we could listen to a comment that told us how many children are on vacation and where. The problem is that there are very serious problems and huge secrecy around the Elizabeth programme. Once again, the Erzsébet program is a story about transferring public wealth, public money to private property, to a very, very serious extent. If we are talking about the Elizabeth program, then we should also ask what is going on with the problems of the New Generation Center. The New Generation Center as a drop in the sea shows the situation around the Elizabeth program. Not 10-20-100 million, but billions have disappeared, and the New Generation Center, whose predecessor was the Zánka Youth Center, cannot account for billions of forints. Even the State Audit Office says there's a big problem. They defend themselves or explain that the cellar is soaked, so they cannot account for billions of forints in the 21st century. In the century, when everything is already on the computer, and everything is very well tracked back. This is part of the Elizabeth programme, ladies and gentlemen. We're afraid someone's stealing again. Here the new generation programme was very much dealt with by the press, the leaders of the new generation programme cannot answer where the public funds were put. Obviously, you can also believe that the cellar is soaked, but don't look so naive. So there are serious problems around the Elizabeth program here, too. There's this Erzsébet Foundation for Children in the Carpathian Basin, to which you wish to re-conquer significant state assets, which will make you a private asset. The Vice-President is Ágnes Deutsch-Für, whose name may be familiar with those who know politics, but obviously this is just another detail, and obviously we can only talk about some kind of identity. The founder of this is Hunguest Asset Management, its founder is the Hungarian National Holiday Foundation. In 2013, 17 decisions can be read on the Foundation's website, 8 in 14 and then nothing about the Foundation can be read from 15 onwards, no decisions, no balance sheets, no public benefit reports, nothing can be read. It's like the foundation disappeared from 2015, or at least it doesn't have any activity, or maybe it has activities that they don't want to make public. We do not know why this foundation is hiding its activities from 2015, why it cannot be accessed, we do not see why this foundation should receive these significant assets. At all, the entire Erzsébet program is built in an extremely complex corporate and foundation system in such a way that it is as hard as possible to track the movement of money and property in any way. They set up a foundation, a company, companies re-establish a foundation, they put wealth from one mind to the other without reason, money to the right, and it simply doesn't make any sense, just to make it harder to follow. Of course, they refer to the fact that someone, such as me, wants to know information about the management of foundations and companies participating in the Elizabeth Programme, that it is not public data and that information about it cannot be obtained. They want to hand over 20 properties to this foundation out of the thirty-six that the company still owns. Let me draw attention to an interesting part of the presentation: it says in the annex that 20 out of 36 properties will be handed over and there will be 15 properties left. It doesn't come out mathematically for me. If we subtract 20 out of 36, how do we keep 15?We've been reading this for a long time, I report, we've found that one property, it's a Zanka pasture that's somehow gone hand-in-hand. By the way, it's not the only property that's missing; because there are 41 properties in the Annex to the original law, there are only 36 properties in the annex to the current law, 5 of which are missing, 3 of which are Zánkai, 2 of Fonyódi. And then one would disappear if we didn't read the letter of the law carefully. I don't know why this foundation or its company or the foundation created by the company needs pasture, I'm sure they want grazing, I can't imagine anything else, but there's one missing. It is also an interesting question that there is nothing to know about the value of assets. It's told in pieces, 20 pieces, 15 pieces, 36 pieces, 41 pieces, but what value they represent, we can't read anything about it anywhere. The fact that there are 20 real estates, there can be a bathroom and a 500-bedroom hotel. They're both one piece of real estate, and they obviously don't represent the same value. It would have been okay if, let's say, the presentation was accompanied by what value they represent today and how they go and where they go. I have been writing letters to various ministries about the Elizabeth Programme for a long, long time, and I must say once again that we are only facing walls and that these ministries give no meaningful information. We have a very serious suspicion that, once again, with government assistance and uncontrolled, very serious funds will disappear from the Elisabeth voucher system, and that public funds will become private assets. Of course, we will do everything we can to make sure that this is true, and if so, who is responsible. We think that this bill does nothing but intend to create another, even more confusing situation for this stretch, to give another 20 properties to a foundation, completely unnecessary. It could be done in a much simpler and transparent way. We see that the proceeds from the Elizabeth cards and the Elizabeth vouchers do not turn back approximately HUF 10-12 billion to the Erzsébet program. [[17.20]] Once again, these are, of course, our calculations, because the government is keeping secrets in this matter and refusing to properly inform the person who is asking. But it doesn't look like it's turning back. The answers are meaningless, they go around the answers, the ministries pass them on to each other, the ministers to the ministers of state, but there are no answers. When we asked if it was true that we spent more than a billion forints on lawyers alone or spent the country on lawyers in the lawsuit with foreign companies, they replied to us that, by the way, according to performance, it was perfectly fine. Compared to this, I understand that we have lost these lawsuits, and there is significant damage to this country and the budget, compared to the fact that we were able to give a billion forints to lawyers. We don't know what the point of this bill is, apart from - I'll say it again - you want to give it to this foundation, which you don't know anything about since 2015, 20 real estates, and we don't even know the value of the real estate. It is also a question of how we stand in the case of social recreation with HUF 3+3 billion. We understand that the foundation was worth 3 billion forints, and that the state would have worn 3 billion forints in this case. It also comes from information that these 3 billion were not put in by the state, so the foundation has to expect further loss of assets. And what is at all calling into question the law submitted is the Prime Minister's announcement the other day, in which he said that the cafeteria system will be transformed by virtually eliminating the existence of Elizabeth's vouchers, because they want to pay the cafeteria in cash. Since the Erzsébet program is practically reserved for and works from the use of Elizabeth vouchers, from then on practically, if we are to convert it this way, then the Elizabeth program, as such, will not work. Compared to that, this bill doesn't make much sense. But if that is the case, then, of course, those who are in need of social leave will suffer again. Obviously, not those who spend millions of dollars on vacation in great places as prime minister's chief advisors, but those who are in need of social leave. If this goes away, it will, of course, be bad for them again. Ladies and gentlemen. The reason we're not going deeper into this is because it's the same theft-based government you represent here. We call it the Erzsébet program or whatever we call it, you take the public money, you put it in opaque foundations, you play the same thing in the Hungarian National Bank, you tried to play the same thing in the postal law. They put it out there, they don't give answers there, because they say it's not public money, they say it's a secret, they say it's a business secret, and we know exactly that they're just public money, just public money. Transferred tax revenues and public funds, which, despite being put into various companies, into foundations created by companies, and then into new companies created by foundations, were still public money when it got there. And, indeed, we see that they are not very careful about how they treat the public funds to whom they are entrusted. So, ladies and gentlemen, you can pack these real estates here and there for a while without telling us what it's worth, we will not support this bill, and, of course, in the near future, we will take legal action in order to say this to the court, as you said today in the case of the Postal Act, that those funds are public money, and those data are public interest data, in vain. The same will happen in the case of the Elizabeth programme, and soon we will see clearly how the funds have disappeared and who is responsible for this matter. We will not vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-17-139	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Attila Móring, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2016-03-17-140	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, The T/9636 in front of us. I would like to briefly describe the position of KDNP in relation to the legislative proposal No. The Erzsébet programme pays particular attention to children, large families, people with disabilities and pensioners. Within the framework of the Erzsébet programme, the largest holiday and camping program of the last two decades was established in Hungary with the support of the Government of Hungary. Already in the first year of the programme, i.e. in 2012, about 50 thousand children, about 80 thousand in 2013, more than 80 thousand in 2014, and in 15 more than 100 thousand children had access to recreation, recreation and camping within the Erzsébet programme. So in the framework of the Elizabeth Programme, more than 600 thousand people, more than 300,000 children, have been able to relax. In 2015, the camping of Hungarian children in Transcarpathia was a priority project, within which nearly 3,000 children could camp in the ten weeks of summer, while 250 children could camp in Zánkán and Erzsébet Camp in Iva. The judgment of the European Court of Justice in the infringement proceedings concerning the domestic regulation of benefits other than wages found that the regulation on vouchers in Erzsébet was in conflict with EU law. While respecting the decision, the government has also begun to review the legislation on benefits outside the pay, but is determined to continue to maintain the Elizabeth programme. According to the proposal, the Erzsébet programme's system is modified by the fact that part of the basically social public tasks will be carried out by children's and youth programmes, including, in particular, the organisation of children's and youth camps after the entry into force of the amendment, on its behalf, Erzsébet will become the Foundation for Children in the Carpathian Basin, reflecting the spirit and fundamental objectives of the programme. With this step, the exclusivity of the relationship between the Erzsébet programme and the Hungarian National Holiday Foundation will be terminated, in order to give its place in part to a foundation dedicated to the recreation of children in the Carpathian Basin during the past years. I trust that this proposal, which creates the conditions of rest and holiday for disadvantaged people, is supported by all my fellow Members, is doing so by the KDNP fraction. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-17-141	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Sebestyén, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-03-17-142	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, We heard about the results of the Elizabeth program. Of course, yeah, it's supported by numbers, how many kids were on vacation, how many families were on vacation, how many people had the opportunity to participate in this program. Another question, even referring to the previous opposition speech, is how many more families could have been lucky to take part in these holidays if they hadn't whistled away from this money. Because none of us dispute that it can help a disadvantaged child to develop a healthy mental development if he has the opportunity to go on vacation, get to know each other and develop socially for at least a week in the summer. There's no question about that. It is just another question of what we are doing behind the efforts, what interests and what low interests lie behind the aspirations and the passwords. I remember that even at the end of 2015 and even at the beginning of 2016 it was a topic in pro-government interpellations or immediate questions and answers about how the MSZP had played it, and how the socialists had played the Csillebérc camp for private individuals, and how it was outrageous, and that something had to be done about it, and that heads had to fall into the dust. Then there will again be pro-government interpellations and immediate questions as to whether the reenactment of Zánka and Fonyód camps in Fidesz-close circles, private property, will have what consequences, and will heads fall to dust? Because it may be in this proposal that they have to use the property for this purpose for 15 years, but what about after 15 years? [[17 .30]] If it is already privately owned, why is it not determined that it should be used for this activity until the end of time, if it will not be used for this activity, then the ownership will return to the State. I believe that this would have legal possibilities. It is possible to explain what the European Court of Justice has decided and how there are confused situations in organisations and in management, unrecognizable and strange situations, but this does not provide a legal basis for us to transfer public property to private property. By the way, I don't understand the explanations either. On the one hand, I do not understand the fact that the European Court of Justice has decided that there will be a significant loss of income. In fact, there will be a minimum amount of Elizabeth's voucher, and there will be no amount in the state register at all, but it is also mentioned in the legal justification and in the text that this will provide the financial basis for certain activities. What if there isn't? On the basis of the decision of the European Court of Justice, it will not be possible, and even on the basis of the Prime Minister's announcement that they will give out-of-wage benefits in cash, it will not be possible at all. So what's this cover coming from? The second is that this system has changed, and this circumstance has changed according to the decision of the European Court of Justice, and I do not understand why this would explain a complete structural transformation and the involvement of new players in the system. It is clear here that this is nothing else, as an explanation, that a European judicial decision can be made, and it can be said, in particular, that they want to transfer high-value state property to a foundation, in fact they want to give it to private property with a 15-year guarantee, no more, so it can actually be said that this is another corruption act. You can then look at the participants of the foundation, who are involved, who are there, who are actually the winners of this whole bill. And once again, it's based on illogical explanations, but the point is, in fact, that high-value public property goes into private property uncontrolled, in fact, only with a 15-year guarantee. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-17-143	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the keynote speeches, followed by two-minute speeches. Since there are no independent Members in this Chamber, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Lukács, MSZP. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-17-144	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen. We have been able to hear it from the pro-government representatives here several times, and they have highlighted how many children and how many disadvantaged children, families and elderly people could have been on holiday with the Erzsébet programme, and we are really happy about this - I fully agree with the approach that if they hadn't bought office buildings and other things and where the hell they were putting the money, it would have been even better, but we are obviously happy about it - it just doesn't explain why they're solving this issue in this opaque and extremely complicated system. To make this Elizabeth program work, I would like to say that if a piece of state-owned company had been set up, you could have done this calmly. By the way, I think that even a department in the Ministry could have done it, so you don't have to create 8 companies and 25 foundations and pass the money and real estate here and there for a hundred billion dollars. It doesn't make any sense, with a single child there won't be any more fun from transferring 20 real estates from one foundation to another, and we're gonna be able to figure out a pasture that we don't know where it's gone, obviously someone's gonna want to be declared an area in a year or two, and suddenly it's gonna be worth ten times what it's worth, but we'll see how it is. Once again, I would like to say that the whole Elizabeth programme is based on the problem, that it is built in such a way that it is impossible to follow the path of public money, and when you ask at ministries, various ministries, various ministers, there is only rejection and secrecy everywhere. Obviously, if it were all right, then farming could be made public otherwise, but it would not be made public, but it would provide completely silly answers, otherwise serious, knowledgeable ministers and secretary of state, so obviously they do not answer because they could not, but because they do not want to. So let's get kids off the hook, but you don't have to steal the money, so I can just sum it up. Thank you.
u2016-03-17-145	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I am asking if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr László Palkovics, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-03-17-146	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, I am pleased that everyone agrees that this type of camping is in the best interests of our children, and I think that the numbers that have been said here also show that this is affected by a large number of benefits. I think there are several misunderstandings here, and I will try to answer them partly to the questions of Mr Luke, partly to Mr Sebestyén Csápó. On the one hand, the first is that the New Generation Centre does not perform the tasks related to the Erzsébet programme - vice-verse is also true - the Erzsébet programme is not part of the new national programme, so we are talking about two different things. He asked me what this fortune could be used for. This can only be used for the Elizabeth programme and for a public task, so in this sense the concern that this is being used for another, I think, is not justified. So far, there has been no problem with the legal operation of the Foundation, and it has listed the various officials of the Foundation. I think you've missed the fact that the foundation, the founder's right practitioner, is the Saint Ágota Child Protection Service provider, which is a religious legal person founded by the Szeged-Csanádi Diocese, so in this sense these properties are not privately owned, but they are ecclesiastical property. Let everyone decide how dangerous this is, how dangerous it is not. He asked the pastures where the pasture was. The pasture will be returned to the Earth Fund on 1 September, so I think that this concern that we are doing something different in the pasture, that the children are playing football on it or are using it for other purposes, I think that it is not well founded, so it will go back to the Earth Fund. [[Zoltán Lukács: It doesn't calm us down, because then it will be sold.]] Nevertheless, it will be returned to the Earth Fund, where all the data of this is public, so what happens to it after that can be clearly followed, but this is not part of the Elizabeth program. The rest of the property will be returned to the Hungarian National Asset Manager with the entry into force of the law, so that in this sense what disappears will cost the state asset management. So if the congressman didn't find this, that's why they're back in government asset management. The value of this is examined by the Hungarian National Asset Manager before the transfer-take-over. Otherwise, properties can be identified in the public register and otherwise their value will be made public. It is very important to understand that this amendment now concerns children's camping, and here, too, Mr President, that if we have to cancel the Elisabeth voucher and the SZÉP card, then what will become of revenue here. These will only take place after a certain period of time, and sometime in 2017, since the existing European judicial decision will be valid from then on. In this sense, this exists until then, but then the camping programme itself is implemented directly from budgetary sources, so it is not in the argument in this sense, I think it is an excessive deficiency. Mr. Vágó asked why the property is being transferred to property, and we have clarified that it will not be owned by a private foundation, but by a church-led foundation, or it will cost itself the management of property. We really apply the fundamental provisions of the national property law, so there is no miracle in this, which, by the way, includes 15 years, so obviously, if we don't want to do that, then this could be something else, but it's required by law. Basically, the aim of this scheme is to ensure that the funding of this system itself comes from public budgetary resources, because that would have been prevented by the very kind of European court decision, which, by the way, - where we generated it from, why we generated it, is a very good question. I think that I would like to ask the Members of this House to support the law precisely for the purpose, so that they can have children, people in need, adults in need of such numbers. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-17-147	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Monday. Dear Parliament, A general debate will follow on the bill on the amendment of certain social and child protection legislation and of the legislation on the care of persons with disabilities until closure. The government referral is T/9635. As well as the information material prepared for the bill by the State Court of Auditors can be found on the IT network, and the information can be received at the Office-Professional Service. [[17.40]] First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Czibere, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-03-17-148	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to welcome you to the T/9635 on the amendment of certain social and child protection legislation and the legislation concerning the care of persons with disabilities. On the occasion of a general debate on bill No 1. Please allow me to explain in a few sentences the main elements of the bill before the plenum. First, briefly, in some points, and then in detail, I will address the detailed presentation of each proposal. Basically, the bill contains a total of seven amendments to the law, but it has basically three major focal points. One of them also adapts the defined cash benefits in aid to the general regulatory environment of cash benefits, i.e. to apply those regulations and regulatory elements in order to ensure regulatory consistency, which is also applied to other cash benefits. The other focus is basically an important package of changes for people with disabilities, which serves to create additional opportunities, especially through improving employability and improving employment opportunities. The third serves to strengthen the social security of this vulnerable social group by creating the starting and most housing opportunities for young people who are taking care of children and leaving them. These three are the main focus of this proposal, which therefore includes seven amendments. In order to ensure the effective functioning of social benefits, certain provisions and concepts of the social law, in particular those relating to financial and in-kind services, are amended. Based on the feedback from the law enforcement bodies, it was justified to modify the provision of home-building support, as provided for in the Child Protection Act, as well as the regulation of child-protection cash benefits, and, as I mentioned, the purpose of the adoption of the Law on the provision of persons with disabilities was to establish a system of support for the participation in the labour market of persons with disabilities, focusing on occupational rehabilitation. Based on the four-year operational experience of the system, the bill sets out proposals aimed at increasing the employment opportunities of these people, strengthening their social security and reducing bureaucracy. We believe that the primary tool to reduce poverty and health risks is not to provide the various social support, it is an important but not a primary instrument. Rising out of poverty is possible primarily through improving employment opportunities, strengthening and increasing employment, and long-term integration in the labour market. The government's social measures are determined in the past and in the future. As of 1 March 2015, the aid scheme has been significantly modified. The previous system was characterised by parallel powers, intransparency, and therefore complicated procedures. The new structure clearly separates public and municipal responsibilities in this area, the state and the municipality's responsibilities in terms of aid. Since last year's amendments, all of the state's social benefits have been granted without exception at district level, which facilitates a uniform application of national law. This will ensure that people in need receive, or are guaranteed, State-funded benefits. At the same time, municipalities have been given the opportunity to set up a system of care that responds better to local needs - municipal support - as they can determine the types and conditions of benefits within their scope. And then let's look at the first focus in more detail! The current amendment to the social law, which lies before you now, concerns the provision of benefits under State responsibility, promotes the uniform application of the law of the district offices in the interests of legal certainty. The purpose of these amendments is to ensure that social benefits are actually available only to persons in need who cooperate with the authorities, and not to provide social support where the financial situation does not justify this. However, when designing the legislation, the legislator also took particular account of the vulnerability of the target group using social benefits, so that the situation of persons providing their livelihoods exclusively from social benefits would not be affected. The social law will be amended to allow the recovery of unauthorized benefits, but not in bad faith, if the person's livelihood is otherwise insured. Under the current rules, undue benefits can only be recovered if there is bad faith. However, a number of situations may arise where benefits are unduly paid due to the particularities of the scheme, even though the client has fulfilled his obligation to notify the change. It is appropriate to provide for the possibility that, in view of the period in which the customer received two types of care in parallel, the benefit paid may be reclaimed regardless of bad faith. Unauthorized payments may also be made in cases where the person receiving social benefits starts public employment, employment or training, including social benefits and public employment wages for a certain period. In these cases, the customer's livelihood is covered by wages, public employment wages, wages or training allowances. However, in parallel with the inclusion of the rule, a more favourable rule than the general rule will be introduced in order to release the reclaimed supply from equity. The practice for social benefits is not unknown in the case of other benefits, which I referred to in the introduction, which, in the case of family allowances, pensions, the provision of persons with disabilities, can be claimed back by the authority within 90 days of payment, whether or not the undue payment was attributable to the client. In general, it is not justified, in the case of social benefits, to reclaim undue benefits in all cases, taking into account the difficult income situation and social status of the target group. Therefore, if the customer is in fact in need because he does not have an income other than social benefits, there will be no tightening up and it is still not possible to recover unauthorized benefits, but in good faith. Customers acting in good faith may be entitled to reimbursement of benefits only in cases where they cover their livelihood from income other than social benefits. A favourable provision for customers is therefore the rule on the assessment of the amount resulting from the transfer of a living-inhabited property, a new rule. According to the current rules, in the case of the sale of residential property, the purchase price should be included as income even if the amount received is spent on the purchase of the property for living-like housing by the customer. According to the proposal, the part of the purchase price against which the customer buys a new property for living-like housing within one year does not constitute an income. In order to improve the targeting of benefits and to facilitate the uniform application of the law, the concept of the law will also be reviewed in other respects. In order to provide authorities with up-to-date data to establish entitlement to benefits, a shorter time limit is provided for reporting, for example, data on cessation in the case of the provision of active persons. The amount managed by the payment service provider shall not count against the assets under the rules in force. It is recommended that the amount in the bank account be included in the assets in order to ensure that this is also settled. At present, the activity in the social cooperative is not always included in the 30-day activity obligation of the FHT, the persons entitled to the replacement allowance for employment. It is appropriate to state that activities in the social cooperative should also be recognised as fulfilling a duty of cooperation. On the basis of the authorities' feedback, it is too rigid to regulate the 30-day activity obligation imposed on persons receiving employment replacement support. There may be cases where the client is unable to carry out this 30-day activity because of his or her health condition. [[17.50]] It is therefore recommended to ensure that a longer period of time is allowed to fulfil the obligation in the event of the customer's incapacity to work. Certain provisions of the social law also change in order to ensure consistency with the standards of the labour sector. According to the changes of the Employment Act in July 2015, the duration of short-term work has increased from 90 days to 120 days, as a result of this change, the payment of the benefits of the active age is also suspended for the first 120 days of their employment activity instead of the current 90 days. The second focus, as I mentioned, is the Child Protection Act. In view of the specific rights and interests of children, the law sets out the elements of support to protect children from the family, and helps to integrate young adults from the child protection system into society. This objective is linked to child protection home support as child protection cash support. The aim of child protection support is to provide normative cash benefits to young adults with no family or financial backgrounds who have spent at least three years in institutional care, and we know that the social integration of these young people has been difficult, especially in terms of their chances of housing, so it is important to create and maintain this support. The aim of the child protection home support is to facilitate the access of young adults to housing. Nearly 1,300 young people leave the care of the state each year, and they can submit a request for this support by the age of 30 at the latest. This benefit is regulated by the Child Protection Act, so that the taxative defines the means of access to housing that the legislator is ordering to support. Of these, the most typically used objective is to purchase, renovate, rent and rent the property. The level of child protection support is adapted to the years spent in education and to the circumstances of the claimant's assets. So far, between HUF 1.1 million and HUF 1.7 million, between HUF 1 million 140 thousand and HUF 1 million 710,000, this rate has changed. In order to ensure the value and efficient use of the aid amount, we consider it appropriate to increase the amount of this aid by 13, 15, 17 percent, 1 339 500 HUF and 1 909 500 HUF. Again, it is important to ensure a uniform settlement of the amounts of aid determined for this purpose, but not used or established, but used differently from the objective, due to the different practice of applying the law. In order to allow for a more flexible use of the aid, the proposal provides for the possibility of re-submitting applications where the young person does not use the full amount. Based on the experience of recent years, 40 percent of those receiving child protection support requested this support to participate in a state-supported housing savings programme, and it is therefore important that the proposal creates consistency between the Child Protection Act and the Housing Savings Fund Act. In order to ensure that a young adult does not lose State aid for housing savings, it is proposed that the housing savings contract can be financed only if it is committed to a minimum four-year term and the payment is made only in instalments. The proposal makes it possible to accept the use of child protection home support by the guardianship office only after certification of housing use under the Housing Savings Fund Act. And then the third focus, in terms of the provision of persons with disabilities, was to build on the remaining health status of persons with disabilities, a system of support for the participation of those persons in the labour market, building on occupational rehabilitation. Based on the experience of recent years, cash benefits and services, employment-related subsidies and benefits seem to be effective in helping to increase the employment of these people. The measures implemented so far have helped to promote the labour market activity of people with disabilities and disabilities, the results are positive, the employment rate has increased significantly and the absolute number of people with disabilities who have been able to work through these programmes. Based on experience gained in the field of law enforcement over the last four years, procedures should be further simplified. Issues raised in law enforcement practice need to be clarified, addressed and attempted. The amendment harmonises the rules on work on disability benefits and rehabilitation care. Currently, there is a legal limit for beneficiaries of invalidity benefits, while there is a time limit for those receiving rehabilitation benefits. Invalidity benefits shall be terminated if the person is engaged in employment and the income exceeds 150 per cent of the minimum wage for three consecutive months. In addition to rehabilitation cash benefits, a maximum of 20 hours per week is currently possible. In view of the fact that the purpose of rehabilitation care is open labour market integration, which is not sufficiently and adequately served by the current working limit, the amendment also provides that work under rehabilitation care will be subject to a limitation of disability benefits, i.e. rehabilitation benefits should be abolished if the person receiving the care is engaged in employment and the income exceeds 150 per cent of the minimum wage for three consecutive months. Currently, the different periods of benefits and benefits associated with changed working ability are slipping apart, not in sync, which is unmanageable and untraceable for customers in practice. The amendment clearly defines the duration of the complex rating, adjusts the entitlement to cash benefits and the employment benefits associated with the rating to that period. According to the current legislation, the minimum and maximum amount of benefits should be fixed on the basis of the minimum wage for 2012, so that the value of benefits is clearly reduced in real terms. In order to ensure the value of the minimum and maximum amount of benefits for persons with disabilities, we propose setting the basis for the projection of these amounts as fixed amounts instead of the minimum wage, requiring them to rise in the same way as the rate of the increase in pensions, i.e. according to the rules governing the increase in benefits. The fixed amount is defined by the bill in HUF 94 500, which is the amount of the previous projection fund increased by the pension increase in 2016. Rehabilitation service providers contribute significantly to the successful implementation of employment rehabilitation programmes from domestic and EU sources. Services are becoming more personalised and provide increasingly complex services to employers who employ or wish to employ people with disabilities. It is an important objective for these organisations to provide services at a uniform level and under the same conditions, and therefore, on the one hand, it is on the agenda to establish rules for registering service providers, how to use the service, the definition of specific target groups for services. Finally, the amendment provides for the possibility for accredited employers to be eligible for the training of workers with disabilities in addition to rehabilitation and wage and cost support. The target group for grants to accredited employers is also added to persons receiving blind persons' personal benefits. To sum up, I can say once again that in both three areas, i.e. protection of children and people with disabilities, and aid, we have proposed to try to initiate amendments in all three areas that serve social security through increasing housing opportunities in child protection, promoting home creation, creating employment opportunities for people with disabilities, and aligning and adapting the regulatory environment of that system to the regulatory environment of other financial care systems in terms of aid. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-17-149	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr Gergely Tapolczai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Congressman, you have the floor. [[18.00]]
u2016-03-17-150	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The proposal before us is based on the experience of recent years. Overall, we are talking about a positive and forward-looking proposal. It is clear that the proposals of advocacy organisations have been incorporated into the proposal. At the same time, I would also like to shed some light on this proposal from a different point of view. I would also like to break it down to three topics, not to repeat the words of the Secretary of State. With regard to the amendment of the Social Administration and Social Benefits Act, we welcome the amendments. The organisations also agreed with them, but I would like to highlight one aspect, one subject, and this, as the Secretary of State has mentioned, is the issue of the reimbursement of unauthorized but not in bad faith benefits. We can talk about two cases. One is when the insured person receives other benefits and receives his previous care in good faith in parallel. The other case is when he announces a change in his own care at a time after which the former care cannot be changed, suspended or terminated. We agree that this issue must be dealt with, which has been unduly paid, must be reimbursed, but it does not matter how and what questions we are trying to solve this problem. Especially for people with disabilities, this may be a sensitive issue, taking into account whether autistic or hearing impaired persons or those who are hindered by communication, who may not be able to provide proper information in some cases. I would also stress the fact that these persons should be treated fairly, and that they should only be reimbursed in good faith, although they have been unduly received, if their livelihoods are guaranteed in the form of other benefits. This is very important, and I would like to point out that we must also pay attention to this in practice. With regard to the amendment of the law on the protection of children and child care management, we also welcome the positive amendments, but I would also like to highlight one issue here. I think it would be worth considering, if not this year, but at least for the next budget year, because this has budgetary implications, increased support for the creation of homes for young people who are hindered and educated in their movements. The apartment provided to them must be accessible, which means that a larger floor space is needed for this, as well as larger rooms and spaces, where they can easily turn around, for example, with a wheelchair or other accessible mode of transport. Therefore, it would be worth considering further. But overall, we welcome an increase in the amount of support for home creation. Turning to the law on the benefits of persons with disabilities, we are also experiencing an absolute positive shift here, based on what we have seen in the proposal. We are well aware that the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities also lays down the rights of people with disabilities to work freely and to make a living. We also know that the EU disability strategy addresses the issue of increasing employment. The target is 75 percent employment. According to Eustat's data, Hungary is 23.7 percent in 2011 in the EU Member States in relation to the employment rate of people with disabilities, while the EU average is 47.3%. So it also shows that we have a lot to do in this area, so that the employment rate can increase. The amending proposal also serves to involve as many people with disabilities as possible in employment or to place them on the open labour market and to help them do so. From this point of view, it is absolutely joyful and welcome that the rules on time limits and the limitation of earnings are unified in the draft. In addition to rehabilitation care, 20 hours of work per week was possible without a income limit. In the case of invalidity benefits, there has been a legal limit so far. The purpose of the amending proposal is to remove this time limit, so in both cases it is possible to take up 8 hours of work, while in both cases the legal limit remains, both for rehabilitation and disability benefits. However, I would also like to propose a consideration here. According to the organisations, and I do not think it is a fully stimulating solution, because in many cases people with disabilities or persons with disabilities will not be motivated to work for a slightly higher wage, but rather, in order to protect or fear for their care, they will remain less working time, with less wages, choosing safety. It might therefore be worth considering the abolition of the legal limit, since the benefit we are talking about is not a substitute for income. On the other hand, it is not a lifetime benefit, especially in the case of rehabilitation care. If the disabled person were motivated to work for 8 hours and possibly to earn a higher wage, he would also be provided for a certain period of time so that we can help him prepare and motivate him to enter the open labour market. Not to mention you'd pay more than a higher salary. [[18.10]] I don't think the savings aspect here applies so much if we cancel the legal limit. I think there's gonna be more revenue out there. It's just a suggestion on my part that I'm proposing for consideration. We support the fact that the minimum and maximum amount for the calculation of benefits takes into account the amount of the minimum wage for 2012, so that it is higher than that, as the State Secretary said, the minimum wage for 2012 is increased by the amount of the pension increase for 2016, so that this should be the new basic amount. The aim is good, but I would like to suggest that the minimum wage for 2015 be taken into account in interpreting the opinions of the organisations, and that the amount be increased by the amount of the pension increase at all times. I agree with the amendment of the differentiated system of penalties, i.e. if the beneficiary fails to fulfil his duty of cooperation, we should not terminate his supply for the first time, we should only suspend him, and if he fails to comply with his duty of cooperation for the second time, he should only be terminated. We support the latter's technical or clarification proposals, which serve practically the aims of the practice. But I have two more points. One is the question of the deadline for notification. It is proposed that this would be reduced to 10 days. People with disabilities have been prevented from communicating or moving, so I would suggest that they stay 15 days or 10 working days, so not 10 days, but 10 working days, helping people with disabilities to have time to manage and use the right help. Another aspect that affects many people with disabilities is that the individual himself, the disabled person, is not sure whether he has a changed working ability or a changed working ability, but is not receiving benefits, so that he does not receive a rehabilitation card or obviously does not receive a benefit, but his employer does not receive a discount for a rehabilitation card. So this is a distinction between a disabled person and a disabled person. Supporting and interpreting the proposal of the National Association of Hungarian Blind and Sensitives, I also think that I would recommend that those who receive disability benefits or a personal benefit from the blind should be considered as persons with a changed working capacity in the eyes of employers, but do not receive any benefits or wage support. They are therefore more easily excluded from the labour market and employment, so this should also be taken into account. Overall, I am pleased that this amending proposal has been drawn up, setting the practice in a positive direction based on the experience so far. I would ask my fellow Members to also support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-03-17-151	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Korózs, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2016-03-17-152	Mr. President, you have 15 minutes, don't you?
u2016-03-17-153	15-minute time frame, yeah.
u2016-03-17-154	Thank you very much. So here we are, ladies and gentlemen, to the one-off social law amendment per session. I don't know why they won't start creating a new social law. But I've been trying to figure out why, and I've come to the conclusion that it's probably because they want to celebrate that a year ago, a lot of forms of care have been abolished, housing support, debt management, kindergarten, equity, public health and care fees. I suppose that's what this amendment is all about. This affected hundreds of thousands of people, my fellow Members, Mr Secretary of State, because if we only look at housing support, it was 450 when it affected almost 500 000 families. But I can tell you that tens of thousands have been affected by fairness, public health and care fees. Even though the government says that the local government can grant so-called municipal aid, because the government has abolished the legal normative rules that gave the right holders predictability and guarantees, today, as I see it, there are three thousand different aid systems in Hungary, only a few benefits depend on the district offices, but they do not replace the subsidies that the government took away a year ago, as I mentioned. With the bill before us, not only do they not want to give more to the poorest, but they are also trying to take what they have already given away. Another instrument for the annulment of the rightholder is the obligation to report as soon as possible information that the State and State have been able to provide to the data subjects, the failure of which can take away their supply without being so-called bad faith. In some cases, right holders should be notified within 8 days if there is a change in the conditions of eligibility, for example if, during the period of entitlement to other cash benefits, an elderly person receives an allowance, an active age or a care allowance. If the data subject fails to do so, the data subject shall be liable for repayment even without bad faith. Under the rules currently in force, unauthorized social benefits can only be reclaimed if the customer has bad faith. If someone is to be reclaimed from the aid paid, it is quite a burden for the person concerned, because think about how many percent of them could repay the twenty-a-thousand forints when it is impossible to make a living, let alone save it. I stress that it is not those who are really crooks who are lying about their income or wealth, but those whom the government thinks they are. Furthermore, what percentage of the rightholder is up and lying with the Hungarian Public, I would be terribly curious about this, because even the administrators themselves often cannot keep up to date with the changes to the laws and regulations. What if someone unknowingly becomes entitled to a benefit, for example, because they have ceased to exist or because a given period has passed? Why does the client just have to know that? Why can't the offices and authorities keep track of this? However, in recent years, a number of registers and databases have been created in each administrative area, where more than one has to be done, saying that parallels have to be filtered out. All we've heard from you in the past few years is that all the people who have social support here are crooks and hang on to the state's trinket. The disabled were crooks, the pre-age pensioners, the paramedics, the needy kids, everyone. But what, then, did the billions of forints that have been spent on IT developments in recent years, when customers are expected to indicate what they are getting and what they might get from another office? These questions are also to be asked if they do not change the interpretation of bad faith, because really, why does the state ask the client for information that he already knows. Is that the bureaucracy cut? Now I'm just asking you this. Of course, this is a rhetorical question, because I know that it does not belong to the competence of the Secretary of State, but to Mr Lazarus. By the way, I propose to amend the regulation on the government's task and competence and to include the fact that the Minister of Human Resources has also been the government's wallet manager responsible for bad faith since this day. In addition, the concept of wealth will be expanded, and in the future the amount managed by the payment institution, including the savings deposit, which is currently not included in the assets. They also provide the possibility of requesting data from payment service providers for the purpose of carrying out the investigation. This shows that the government will only provide aid to those affected in the final case if they have actually lived up to all their reserves. [[18.20]] This is a logical idea from the government's point of view, since the Fundamental Law is also about the responsibility of everyone and their family for everyone except for government politicians, because they tend to care for themselves and their families. Typically, according to the Impact Assessment Paper for the Government's presentation on its website, changes to aid are an advantage for beneficiaries. I don't know if it's an advantage for you to take bad faith, which is not. But there must also be an amendment that is favourable, even if it does not improve much on the whole system. Such is the fact that, in the case of an employment replacement allowance, where the customer has been proven to have been unfit for work for at least 30 days, he has 60 days to fulfil the 30-day activity obligation. The proposal expands the responsibilities of family and child welfare services by contributing to the targeted and controlled distribution of a case-by-case or regular in-kind benefit under the EU-source programme and in this context changes the scope of the St. the processing of personal data. The amendment requires the family and child welfare service of the holder's address to provide the natural identity and social security identification mark of the persons in the programme's target group with the social authority and pension benefit body keeping records of the right holders. It is probably because of the European Fund that supports the most deprived people that it is necessary to provide family supporters with access to all kinds of data from other authorities and agencies in their territory. In response to a previous written question, it has already been stated as a fact that it will be based on these data that the right holders will be surveyed. They seem to have found out that data processing requires a legislative amendment. It is interesting that the provision that gives the government the power to operate the Social Policy Council will be repealed. Now it looks like they're going to eliminate the organization that you've never run -- but let's go! The amendment to the support for home-building for young adults who are out of child protection is welcome in several respects, although it is unclear why previous home-building grants should be blocked if they are linked to a home-saving scheme. It would also be nice to know what happened to the system announced years ago that would have replaced the aid under the name of a child protection housing fund. It is proposed to increase the amount of support for home creation. It is interesting that in the statement of reasons it is stated that:. Since the amount of the aid is determined in proportion to the minimum amount of the old-age pension applicable at the time of its establishment, the increase is made by increasing these rates. Yes, but the proposed increase is not in the same band, and the highest is only 17.5 percent. This is interesting because according to the impact assessment paper attached to the previous submission on the government's website, more than 22 percent of the pension minimum value can be found, so it does not even reach the level of the amendment that could be read on the website. In addition, there are some questions about ensuring value-proofness. If it bothers you so much that the fund for home-building support or disability benefits has been reduced, then why doesn't it bother you with the rest of the benefits? That's the only way I'm gonna ask you that on the edge of the margin. Why is it not important to have nearly 200,000 families who today make a living of HUF 22 800 when there is no public service for adults or parents? Why is it not important to have many thousands of people who are injured in health who are suffering from a similar amount today? Why is it not important for nearly 60,000 people and their relatives to receive a care allowance well below the minimum wage, although they are actually doing a caregiver's job? The line could continue, although much more care is no longer provided by the government to the poor. By the way, it should be noted that it is not clear what is necessary for the FHT to state that if the minimum pension rate changes, this benefit should also be increased and the rest and so on. On the one hand, I think or thought that this is the case, and on the other hand, it does not seem like they want to change the pension minimum. Or is there any change? I don't know that, Mr. Secretary, although you may recall that I had a motion for this in Parliament twice last year, and the Fidesz majority voted against it both times in the People's Welfare Committee. But let's get to the care of the disabled. Changes to the benefits of the disabled are, in a sense, just a beauty patch on the distorted face of the fundamentally unfair system. I think that this increase, justified by value, is ridiculous and a little hypocritical, because it should only be taken into account in the new cases. But even this part of the bill contains the most positive changes, namely that the concept of employment is changed, but this is what the Fidesz lead speaker referred to before him, making it clear that entrepreneurs are considered to be engaged in employment during insurance periods, so that self-employed persons whose business relationship is interrupted are not considered to be employed. It will extend the scope of those who may be entitled to the benefits of persons with disabilities regardless of the duration of the insurance. We also hope that it will bring about a positive change for those affected and not just for the office to adjust the period of eligibility for rehabilitation to the duration of the complex qualification in order to ensure that the different elements of rehabilitation care, such as cash benefits and rehabilitation services, do not slip away from each other. We were pleased to see the finening of the sanctions for breach of the obligation to cooperate. At present, if the client fails to comply with his obligations under the rehabilitation plan for reasons attributable to him, the only legal means available to the rehabilitation authorities is to terminate the supply. According to the amendment, for the first time rehabilitation benefits will not be terminated but suspended for three months, the termination should be provided for only in the event of a repeated breach of the obligation. One of the most important elements, perhaps, is the change in the minimum and maximum amount of benefits; it is justified in order to ensure that it is of value. The previous screening fund, the minimum wage for 2012, will cease in the case of benefits, and my colleague from Tapolcza also referred to this, instead of which it will be fixed in the future. This will be a new name, as I read, called the basic amount, and will rise in the same way as the pension increase. As explained in the explanatory note, the basic amount is the 2016 rate of the current projection fund. , the amount raised by the pension increase in 2016 is HUF 94 500. According to the transitional arrangements, the new provisions should apply only to new cases, i.e. to cases initiated after 30 April 2016 for the determination or review of the supply of persons with disabilities. I find it an interesting solution, however, that they want to ensure the value of the provision of people with disabilities by raising the amount of the minimum wage for 2012, HUF 93 thousand, by 1.6 percent this year's pension increase; it is also welcome that the threshold has not been raised for four years. It doesn't make any sense what the minimum wage has to do with the pension increase. I haven't been able to solve that. It would be more acceptable, in my view, to always use the minimum wage for that year as a benchmark. At the moment, it should be 111,000 forints and not 94 500 forints, because this is 94 500 forints, I figure, about 1500 forints in total. Furthermore, there is an important change in the harmonisation of the rules on employment in respect of disability and rehabilitation care. I do not wish to repeat here, what you have said before me, but I think it is important that in future accredited employers can receive support for the training of workers with disabilities in addition to rehabilitation and wage and cost support, and that the target group for grants to accredited employers will be added to those receiving blind people's personal benefits. This relates to the change in the cooperation and notification obligations of the person receiving the care, but the latter represents a tightening up: the deadline for notification is reduced from 15 to 10 days in a uniform manner. Fellow Members! Dear House, I would like to point out that about half an hour ago, I believe, I tabled four amendments. I would ask the pro-government side to support these amendments. If my initiative is supported, we will also support the bill, otherwise do not count on our support. Thank you so much for listening.
u2016-03-17-155	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Attila Móring, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. [[18.30]]
u2016-03-17-156	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The Secretary of State has already presented in detail the T/9635 on the amendment of certain social and child protection legislation and the legislation concerning the benefits of persons with disabilities. The essential elements of the bill No 1. I would like to draw attention to two topics covered by the bill that help people in a vital situation that is important to the Christian Democratic People's Party. XXXI of 1997 on the protection of children and child care management The aim of the statutory child protection home support is to support, as a normative cash benefit, a young adult with no family background who has spent at least three years in institutional care and who does not have adequate wealth. The social integration of young adults in the system of child protection has made it difficult, many of them need social care later as homeless, and it is therefore extremely important to promote their individual existence, especially in solving the housing issue. The aim of the aid is to facilitate the access to housing and long-term housing for these young adults. On an annual basis, nearly 1300 people will be insured under this grant. In order to ensure that the amount of aid is of value, it is appropriate to increase the amount of child protection home support in accordance with the bill. The other area is, in our view, very rightly the provision of people with disabilities. Based on the four-year operational experience of the system, the legislative amendment puts forward proposals to increase employment opportunities for people with disabilities, strengthen their social security and reduce bureaucracy. It thus creates a limitation on the scope of the rehabilitation and invalidity work, creates a differentiated system of penalties in the event of a breach of the obligation to cooperate, creates the value of the minimum and maximum amount of benefits, establishes rules on the duration of the complex rating, clarifies, expands the rules of the register kept for the purpose of providing rehabilitation services, settles further issues raised in the application of the law, clarifies the concept of employment, defines the minimum age limit, allows customers to submit an application without limitation. Ladies and gentlemen, There are, of course, many details to be discussed in the debate on the proposal before us, because it is a very complex subject. The amendment we are discussing here will, in my opinion, improve the effectiveness of the social care system, which is why the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party will support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-03-17-157	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Sebestyén, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-03-17-158	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I'd like to go in more substantial parts of the bill. First of all, there are parts that I can agree with, of course, but there are also parts that I do not understand, and I might want an answer to. I can agree, unlike the Socialist speaker, that other factors should also come into the investigation of the need, and I think it is important that we also take account of wealth. Some are entitled to receive an allowance by their demonstrable income relationships, but if they have millions in their bank accounts or savings, this is unfair to others and cannot be justified. Often mentioned is the repayment of non-bad faith benefits. I don't know how parallels can happen. The system has been built, according to the owner's number, each benefit should be added to the system, indicating the parallels immediately. If the parallels are immediately eliminated, I cannot imagine how a situation may occur where a person receives an undue benefit and receives that benefit in good faith. We know very well what kind of people we are talking about who receive these benefits in many cases. There are also situations where experts are unable to find out about benefits systems, and how we expect a needy person who may not really have a school education or a very low education to see through the system and to notice if he receives an unauthorized allowance. I think we need to come up with some other system for that. There is also a clause in this proposal: if per capita income does not reach a certain level in the family, the Office may decide to waive or reduce the amount to be recovered. I, like in other laws, resent parole. I believe that if the per capita income in that family does not reach that level, then the office should not have the opportunity to reduce or terminate this debt, but to automatically eliminate or reduce the amount to be recovered. With regard to the changes and increases, I would also say that it is fortunate that in the care of people with disabilities they realized that, sorry, not here, but in the start-up support, they realized that this amount was small and that it has not been following the inflation that is in Hungary for years, and that its value is not as much as it used to be. If they found out about this in the home-building fund, I don't see why they didn't find out about other benefits. It may not have been the multipliers that should have been changed for this benefit, but the minimum old-age pension minimum. I know this would have attracted other benefits, but I think if it were realistic here that the amount that is already available would be realistic for other benefits as well. I have a few questions about home support. My first question is: the law leaves the possibility of concluding a housing savings contract with this amount, and in this case it is not the lump sum, but the regular payment method for longer periods. If, in this case, this amount cannot be spent on anyone else because the account is blocked, so the regular reference is made, then what is the obstacle for the person in or out of public care to choose the lump sum contract method. I don't understand. There may be a reason why the money provider doesn't have interest during the term, but I don't see any other reason. I do not know what the professional reason for this is, because we are not talking about large amounts, we are talking about amounts below HUF 2 million, and if we consider today's real estate prices, it is minimal to start a life, to create a home. Let us give them the opportunity that if a contract of this type were more favourable than the other, then let them choose it from this amount. Moving on to rehabilitation care: it is to be welcomed that there will also be an imposition on those receiving rehabilitation care, which is also available to those receiving disability benefits, namely, that benefits can be terminated if they earn 150 per cent of the minimum wage within three consecutive months. The same problem here as in the original debate and since then we have repeatedly raised the need not to terminate the care, but to pause it. It is a lifelike situation, whether you are receiving a rehabilitation contribution or an invalidity benefit, it is very often that you try to work with a job, and it is also very often that this may take longer than three months, and after six months - sorry for the expression - you may run out of strength, and then you can say that I do not like it, then you stand there that your care has ceased. [[18.40]] I believe that, given the situation of these people and their reintegration or rehabilitation at work, or the specialities of their integration and integration, if the 3 months have passed, it is legitimate not to receive the care, but not to cease its care, but to pause. And if, even 10 days later, it turns out that you can't handle it, yet you can't do that job, yet you can't live up to it, then don't lose your supply permanently. With regard to complex reviews and entry into force and the start of the rehabilitation period, I would just like to say that in many cases, their benefits are reduced. In the course of the complex review, it is found that his health has improved. In contrast to this complex review result, a version of the method of appeal is often chosen to go to court. We know very well how long court proceedings, even administrative proceedings, last, but it takes that date into account, but from that date it receives reduced treatment. What's the situation at this hour? In this case, the problem is that you have to make a living from a reduced allowance for years, but what if the court decides that it was wrong, and the end of that is always another complex review, which does not establish this health improvement? So what's the deal? What about the handler? This is where it occurs that if the paying agent has paid less, otherwise not in bad faith, then he should also be subject to the same rule as the person receiving the non-rewarded benefits in good faith. One of the biggest injustices, in my view, was that the law on the disabled workers transferred a benefit on an insurance basis to another benefit, so that it shifted the benefits of persons with disabilities from the pension system to the system of social benefits. It was one of his greatest injustices. At some level, this proposal is now improving with the measure that, as in pensions, the rate of pension increases is increasing annually. Here it is improving at some level, we are talking about almost a benefit that is a transition between insurance and other benefits. But that's still not enough. We're talking very minimal amounts. The situation of persons with disabilities will not be greatly affected by the few thousand forints they receive. I see this as a good step, I'm just saying that you should go on this path and think about the scale of the raises. I think we need higher increases. Now I do not want to mention whether the amount established each year is actually correct and proportionate to the depreciation of the pension, because we know very well with a large number of products, the products needed to sustain life, and most of us know very well that 1.6 percent this year, even on the basis of the data of the HCSO, is not 1.6 percent higher than that of January 2015. This should therefore also be considered, and the system should then be changed to this extent. That is what I wanted to say on the proposal. Thank you for listening. [[Lajos Kepli applauds.]]
u2016-03-17-159	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Independent Members do not take part in the debate; no one has applied for a two-minute speech. Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group, has submitted a statement on a normal time frame. I give you the floor in a 15-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-17-160	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I believe that Parliament is discussing an important draft law. I am sorry that four or five of us are doing this, accompanied by Mr. Secretary of State, but it can still be a good outcome. It is important, because when we discuss matters concerning social issues or even issues involving children's protection or people with disabilities, it is also important to see that unfortunately there are a lot of people in the last category, also in the category of people with disabilities. Therefore, there is also a significant scope of this draft law in terms of numbers. I would much prefer to see, say, a complex, comprehensive law on the handling of these matters in a given parliamentary term, and not such a slightly ad hoc process, combined with the incorporation of certain corrections every 3 months, every 6 months. But if it leads us in a positive direction, I have to say, it's better than nothing happening. This bill has positive elements, it's undeniable. There are some things about which I think the direction of displacement is good. I don't really want to deal with them, but I wanted to make a statement. I wanted to make sure there was one. There is, for example, in the case of subsidies to replace employment, in the case of a 30-day incapacity to work, an extension of the time interval in relation to the acquisition of a 30-day public employment opportunity, and also in other respects. I'd rather deal with the part that seems a little more problematic to me. If I don't see something right, I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State to correct or to shed light on things differently. I never think it's good for the government to adopt measures that, in a sense, appear as an endowment. The state's got a lot of information on all of us, isn't it? That's totally okay, obviously, because that's how you handle cases normally. But the number of known, reported, registered, recorded data, I feel that you are not using it properly - I do not want to be a picir - within the framework of the one-stop shop. Therefore, he is not using it properly, and regardless of the fact that, where appropriate, he or she has all types of registration data available, he or she expects or obliges citizens to make statements. And if and if these statements do not take place where appropriate, then there may be negative consequences. And I think, if the registration systems are already operating with the necessary data at the disposal of the State, the Government, the relevant authorities and organisations, then these data, let's say, can be caught between organisations within the framework of the administrative machinery. It shouldn't be trying to create a situation that, if I'm gonna be a little picnic, I'm gonna say it could lead to how to take away the benefits we've earned or get people to lose. I believe that there is tangible evidence in this respect that there is work to be done on the part of the state, the government, the authorities, and that there should not be provisions within the framework of a draft law that, once again, provide a way and opportunity for the client to do so without having this knowledge and making the necessary statements, how and how to make the story vulnerable. The other thing, which is causing some problems beyond the administrative background, is something that my fellow Member, Mr Sebestyén, has told us, and so is the same, and is different from that. Here, he also asked for his wealth in terms of savings, so here for savings deposits and other other savings. He or I felt that he was approaching the matter from the point of view that if there were shields, then naturally, why different help should be provided. [[18.50]] And I'm coming from the other direction to what we're trying to achieve, what is the goal, if people are trying to save some money for their own safety. I think that it is a good attitude to encourage people to live up to every forint they have, of course, if they have a small way and opportunity, but, if possible, they also serve to create their own safety. But this should not mean that parallel or parallel, then the situation should be that they do not receive any state aid in connection with getting into a bad situation. In English, I don't think it's good to encourage people not to create a level of security around them. Perhaps in a more ugly way, I say that you should strive to have nothing, because if you have nothing, you can get any support. Yes, have some level of savings for everyone as far as possible, but this should not mean, at least for those amounts of tangible magnitude that are not 10-20-50-100 million forints, which obviously do not affect a large number of these people to exclude them from everything. The other part is that, in terms of people with disabilities and rehabilitation care, I see it the same way as my fellow Member, that the possibility of earning more than 150 per cent of the minimum wage in a three-month period does not have the effect of abolishing these benefits, but of suspending them. Simply because there are living, existing examples, Mr Secretary of State knows them well. Today, in the labour market - unfortunately, but this is how it works - about three quarters of jobs are created with supported jobs. The vast majority of these are made up of public jobs, but not only that, there are jobs created within the economic sphere, but the vast majority of these are also created as supported jobs. The specific feature of supported jobs is that parametrisation depends on six months, nine months, and one year with certain subsidies, and, unfortunately, after these time periods - but this is also part of the real world - in many cases, these employments cease to exist. Now, it is not certain that, after six months, eight months or even four months of employment, the termination of a legal relationship within the framework of such a possible format should bring with it the provision and support of previous rehabilitation, because, over a period of more than three months, an income exceeding 150 per cent of the minimum wage has been obtained during a given period, it is practically excluded, and even within any other framework, it will have to fight in order to be considered eligible at all. One word, like a hundred, I ask the Secretary of State to think that it should be not the unconditional termination, but the pause that is placed in the focus of thought. The other part, which affects people with disabilities. It is obvious here that all governments, regardless of their color, should be at the heart of their thinking that they are trying to increase employment opportunities. Unfortunately, in this respect, there have not been such huge advances in the past period. If we look at the previous screening funds, if we are talking about money and resources, then the 2012 minimum wage was the basis, this is the 93,000 HUF scale, the same situation for four years, and then the 93 thousand plus 1.6 percent pension increase in 2016, to which my colleague Mr Korózs said that the relationship between the minimum wage and the current rate of pension increase in 2016 was not resolved, how and why it is related to each other or in what relationship. You are not alone in this, so it is likely that there are more of us, but perhaps you will explain to us what is behind this. It is likely that they did not want to tie the story to the current minimum wage, because that would be 111,000 forints, and that would be the projection fund, and that would not be too good for you. Of course, people would prefer it, obviously, because then they would serve their good and nothing else. Again, I am saying that it would be worth considering that if we parametric, it would be a minimum wage and should or should be matched to the grossness of the minimum wage. If I started at the beginning by saying that it would be good not to correct every three or six months, although if there is positive, it is still better than nothing, then it should not be remembered that a year ago a pretty serious cut was made in this respect. Now it doesn't matter what we're talking about, whether we're talking about a system of equity or housing benefits, which affected hundreds of thousands of people, or the issue of taking care of invalids instead of pensions, or pre-age pensions, whether we're talking about pre-retirement or early retirement, I don't want to go into them, I just want to say that you know, we all know that there's been some pretty tough payback here. If that is the case, then I would like at least to ask that now and when, let us say, a change of status is being examined, because such a change may occur, there are virtually decisions that can be amended and withdrawn within five years, then I do not know why these amendments can be brought to life, even at the expense of the client. I understand that if you want to make changes to the customer's interests, although this is not what I see, but why you try to make changes to the customer's interests, this is just the same logic as I said in the first thought, when the authorities are helping the data subjects to catch up with data in different registers, in relation to statements about it, because if they fail, it gives them the opportunity and the opportunity to be excluded from various supply systems. So what I'm trying to say is that, in addition to all of this, it might be worth talking about one more little thing, a shard, this once social policy council, I'm sure you'll remember the use of words. [[Károly Czibere: I was a member.]] 'Cause you guys have, like, all sorts of conflict of interest issues over the past few years, you've been evacuated pretty thick. Of course, we can talk about this rebuttal, but I would like to say that eliminating what hasn't worked before is not a big deal. Mr Secretary, you can say anything, I know the system of reconciliation of interests, and I see what you're doing in this regard, so you better not start, although I will no longer be able to answer you back because you didn't participate in the debate during the process, so it won't be very appropriate to say something that I can't deny just because you're going to say a closing word. I would like to ask you, in the last sentence, that, if we are talking about matters of social, child protection or a change in working ability, we should always have a person in our head, as an example of care matters with regard to disabled care; six years ago, it was said that there was a minimum wage, six years later, nothing happened, that it would be okay if these issues were to come to the fore, because it would all be for the benefit of the people. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[19.00]]
u2016-03-17-161	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to speak on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Károly Czibere, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-17-162	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear House, Thank you very much, first of all, for the attitude and attitude with which all the speakers, the lead speakers and others on all three issues have basically pointed out that they have basically seen the right direction in all three aspects, only in terms of measure, but only in terms of pace. I think it is important that in all areas we have been able to give an account of steps and proposals that are indeed the care of the state, indeed the people with disabilities, and indeed the opportunity to create people with disabilities, and to increase their chances. I would like to thank everyone for their proposal. We will consider these, and we will discuss them in the near future, and I would like to make a promise that we will build what we can. I would like to return to one or two things, which have been expressed in several contributions. One came up in the context of relief. Mr Korózs said that, with regard to municipal aid, he felt that there were 3,000 aid regimes. Yeah, but what was it before 2015? If we look at the fact that, when they had full municipal authority since the aid operations, 93 we were able to talk about the fact that the whole of the relief cash supply system was part of the world of municipal discretion. The literature was all about the development of 3 thousand different social care regimes, and that is why over time a continuous correction of the aid scheme established in 93 was launched, the fundamental element of which was the need for constant restrictions on the discretionary elements, and this was confirmed by the 2015 reform when the income replacement aid was fully increased to walks. We think that, compared to the last 20 years, the reform of. 15 has been a positive turnaround in this case, with regard to very differentiated, very different quality of aid regimes. The other question is ending. This has also been the case in several contributions. We believe that it is indeed legitimate to suggest that if public bodies, public authorities, are able to find information from several different sources of data, databases, official records, data are generated there, indeed from EU sources, from such developments, such databases are created, they should be possible to find information without asking customers. The good news is that these official registers have indeed been established in recent years, but there are nine such large official registers in the social field. However, the work needed to avoid having to ask clients and clients for additional information is that these databases and registers are linked. This is the particular social account concept that we are working on, which will result in seeing all of the social benefits of the individual citizen in the same domain. So there really are registers, but they're not currently linked based on the number of farms. The next question was the question of data processing, to which Mr Korózs referred. With regard to child welfare, the starting RSZTOP, which is an operational programme to support people in need, which will essentially be implemented through child welfare services, and which is very strongly focused on helping children under three years of age and under three years of age, helping them with a food package, where, after regular child protection benefits will be the basic eligibility basis, it is important and these children, these families raising children, are known to children's welfare services, are authorised to handle these data so that they can really get the help in this programme to the children in need in time. I really do not want to abuse the situation, but two Members mentioned the Social Policy Council. It is not that the Social Policy Council is abolished. The Social Policy Council operated between 2003 and 2008 and was established for five years. I know him well because I myself was a member of the church delegation, so I know exactly what this is about. It is precisely that the management of the social sector would like to recreate the scenes of professional discourse and professional policy dialogue. This has two important tools. In seven social services areas, he would like to build professional colleges in the near days and weeks of which he will be a member of 12-12-12, who would be consultants in the sector management in each service area, make professional resolutions and guidelines in the preparation of decisions in each area, and above them, their presidents and their leaders would form the new Social Policy Council. This is why it is necessary to repeal the legislation on the old type of social policy Council in a different composition in order to create a place for the new Council. The next question was - once again with regard to the deadline - that vulnerable social groups, in particular people with disabilities, should pay particular attention to ensuring that, for example, they do not harm their interests when reducing the deadline or amending other procedural rules. Thank you very much, Mr Tapolczai. Of course, I can promise that we will monitor this closely. Again, in the case of the provision of wealth and the question of wealth, the social law now states that the minimum pension rate for old age is 80 times higher than that for social benefits. So when we talk about wealth, it is not that any savings are not possible, but that there is a statutory minimum part of this which is excluded from inclusion. The next question was why it wasn't my self, the minimum old-age pension raised in a uniform way. It has to be seen that the minimum retirement pension is not only the aid scheme, but also the foundation stone, orientation point, origo of a wide variety of monetary support schemes, and not only the level of benefit, but also the levels of entitlement. Today, a wide-ranging system has been built. From a social policy point of view, we believe that it is not a good thing to start raising that origo, but to look at how to increase the threshold of entitlement in individual areas, i.e. care premiums, elderly people's benefits, regular child protection benefits, separately in individual areas, and on the other hand the level of benefit itself, but keeping this threshold. We therefore see a differentiated increase both in terms of individual benefits and in terms of both the rate and the eligibility threshold. That we started in the right direction in these cases, we thank you. We also thank you for the urgency that more, more, more, come on. I can make a promise that we will continue to examine, together with my colleagues, the extent to which both the levels and the eligibility thresholds are raised. What Mr Korózs said is why one of the thresholds for child protection support is increased by 17 percent, why not by 22, I considered this to be a very encouraging comment. [[19.10]] The next question is child protection support. I thanked you for the special treatment of young people who have been hindered by their movements, and we will pay attention to that. It is important to add that from 1 January 2016 the accessibility support for these people has been doubled by the government. So, precisely so that these people could make their own home changes, so that they could live in a barrier-free living environment, they doubled their support for it. In addition, it can be used not once in their lives, but several times. We very much hope that this is an important contribution to strengthening their social security. The next question that has been raised is the increase in child protection support, which increases to 11-17 percent, and what is preventing this from being taken out in a single amount. It's basically adapted to the housing law, so we're going to look at the details of this one more time. We have seen that this is in the best interests of young people in order to be consistent with the housing law, and this is basically the reason for this regulation. With regard to people with disabilities, the principle of termination and cessation was, as I mentioned in the exposé, to be uniform, so that the same rules apply to all benefits. That's what caused it to be terminated here, not paused. We will look at this, as we will also look at, that there should be a longer period of time instead of three months in regulation, which may be longer than three months. The next question is the scale of the increase, and I thank you for the encouragement that it is important, and it is a good direction for us to move towards indexation in terms of the increase, but that the measure is not enough. Obviously, we will be working in the coming time to ensure that this increase is continuous and that it will be possible to create the value-proofness of these subsidies through indexation. Several other comments were made. Of course, we will examine the amendments. Once again, I would like to thank all the Members for their contributions and their recognition of the positive aspects of this proposal. I ask you to support this proposal in the vote, and we will look at the amendments one by one, and what we see as eligible, of course, will be supported by the government. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-17-163	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Monday. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that, according to our agreed agenda, T/9634 on the amendment of certain migration-related laws and other laws in this context. Legislative bill No. 1 and T/9631 between Hungary and the Republic of Slovenia on the publication of the Treaty on the change of state borders as a result of the regulation of the water management of the Lendva Creek. There will be no general debate at this meeting on bill No 1. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, Mr László György Lukács, Jobbik Group asked for a speech with the title 'Untraveled Roads in the Nagykunság'. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2016-03-17-164	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Those of you who stayed here at the end of the meeting. It will be a very important topic, the roadless roads are literally understandable in the Nagykunság, because one of the topics of this speech will be roads in extremely poor condition, which could contribute to the vitality of the countryside, to the survival power of the countryside, if they could be viable, and these roads would not lead to nothing, or not to the settlements in a way that is often untraceable. Because of these unseemly roads and the poor road cover, there was a protest between Túrkeve and Mezőtúr during the weekend between civilians who were satisfied with the bad conditions. The civilians, by the way, are one of the local leading news portals, the country. Today's news portals have gathered on its initiative and demonstrated, which, by the way, has announced a pothole beauty contest in the area, given that there are so many potholes. The participants arrived with a nice number, and we can say that even in the most avenging situation, Hungarians always find their sense of humor. Well, they also found the demonstrators, but they weren't in a very funny mood when they saw that there was little interest in what they had aroused, and it seems that government or thoughtful road development policy will not meet their needs. The demonstration therefore affected the road section between Túrkeve and Mezőtúr, which is a four-digit road, i.e. the 4202-digit road, which is in extremely poor condition, and cannot be used normally, not slowly, but in any way. No restraint board, by the way, or a warning sign calling for speed or road faults, will help anyone to go through it properly. Damages are very common, the population who demonstrated out there reported almost one to one that his vehicle had already suffered serious damage on this side of the road. Indeed, I myself have been on that road, if not once a week, but at least once every two weeks, and it is in a worse and worse condition, which, by the end of winter and the coming of spring, is not surprising, but it is surprising that this problem has been unsolved for years now, since it can be improved not by patching potholes, but by properly strengthening the road base and the road. But people are not only troubled between Túrkeve and Mezőtúr, when they want to get to the hospital or from one settlement to another, they want to participate in increased work traffic, but there are also other settlements, for example, between Martfű and Törökszentmiklós, which is also in Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County, which is in such a state that even the 40 sign makes the road inaccessible in the same way. Therefore, no warning signs of any kind solve the problem and the quality of the roads causes constant damage to those who otherwise regularly go to work. Not to mention that these are areas where the ambulance doesn't arrive at normal time anyway, so even if you have to go down roads that are impossible to observe or maintain even 15 minutes of normal time. But such is the road 3219 between Kunmadaras and Tiszaszentimre, which is also considered a four-digit journey, and you might think that it does not lead to a great deal of traffic, but regular commuters between the two settlements, or even travelers in their direction, meet regularly, as this is one of the shortest routes through the Nagykunság to the Tisza-tó, the Tisza-tó-tó and the Tisza-ság villages. It is annoying every day, not only for residents, but also for public transport users, as it is almost impossible to travel by train at these stages, it is possible to use public transport by buses alone, and buses also run with significant delays and significant damage. I believe that these four-digit trips should be given priority. That is why I asked the Ministry of National Development last week with a written question to clarify what the situation of the four-digit trips to Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County is, what development resources there are, whether there will be road development in the foreseeable future, or whether there will be potholeing in the near future, or whether it will be possible to avoid potholes at the end of every winter, with the arrival of spring. I also thought it important to say this in front of the National Assembly, because the residents themselves believe that no one can hear their voices, regardless of whether the mayor of the settlement, or even the whole body of representatives, is in favour of improving the roads. They are all in county road maintenance, so the municipality has little influence, and despite this, despite the public and local policy, these roads will not be improved. Thus, it is absolutely necessary for the decision-makers to hear at higher levels that it cannot wait any longer to repair, permanently repair and not just vouch for Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County's Grand Junior Roads. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-17-165	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Member Lajos Kepli, Jobbik Group also applied for a post-the-meet speech:. The Csepel container terminal is the Scented Way of the Future? It's an address. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame. Here you go. [[19.20]]
u2016-03-17-166	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I love this genre, the acoustics in the room come out much better when we talk to the walls in the empty room. Unfortunately, this is not funny, and it is very sad, respect for the exception, of course, my fellow Member Gergely Tapolczai is the fresh exception in this case, since he is sitting alone in the pro-government benches. It is very sad, however, that I want to talk about, because it is environmental pollution, namely pollution in Budapest, an incident that has ruffled the moods for weeks or months, and this is the case of smelly barrels, barrels of dangerous materials and hazardous waste, which, following a public and civil protest, came to the heart of the media's interest, and the government also came to civil and residential and political pressure and delivered the barrels that were gathered there. About 2,000 tons of hazardous waste, of all kinds, were taken to various incineration plants, and at the moment there are no barrels at the site. During this morning, I took part in a tour of the Scented Road site, where the plant manager, who has been working on the site for forty years, carried us around, and showed us what the colony looks like now, and although the barrels have actually disappeared, the pervasive chemical smell that makes you almost sick, even in this relatively cold weather, is practically soaking everything. This shows that soil and buildings continue to be contaminated, and because the soil is still present - probably due to 140 years of activity, to an even greater extent than in barrels that have been transported - we cannot sit back and maintain our hands, but we must continue to work to clean up the entire area of the site, since 140 years of pregnant heritage has to be eliminated, so that the water of the wells and the soil in the area does not continue to pollute, so that the pollution which, by the way, presents an enormous variety of hazards does not continue to spread, precisely because in that chemical plant, there is a wide range of dangerous substances that can hardly be delimited, several dozens or even more organic solvents and other chemicals, pesticides, fertilizers and other substances, have been produced there, even more than a hundred years. It is very important that we make sure that investments in the future do not occur in a hundred years' time or in fifty years' time that someone is faced with such a situation again, but that we prevent potential threats and dangerous investments early on. This is why Jobbik's Csepel organization protested against the container terminal built or constructed in Csepel, whose safety report stated at the beginning that any dangerous substance in the container terminal could occur at the same time, up to 250 tonnes. This struck our ears at the time, because - and here the parallel with the Scented Road - almost any dangerous material can occur there, there too, and in the future also in the area of the Csepel container terminal, that if it is done, then there can also be any hazardous waste left to fantasy, so virtually anything. Therefore, it is very difficult to defend itself against it, and therefore, in an environment where housing, schools, an entire city operates in the immediate vicinity of the investment, it is not advisable, according to Jobbik, to make such an investment. Jobbik will continue to protest this investment. We have recently written to President János Áder a letter to the President of the Republic that, if he stands at such a level always for the protection of domestic waters and the protection of the environment in international forums, then, for once at home, he should take the liberty of standing up against such investments, which, by the way, will be located in the hydrogeological protection area of one of Budapest's drinking water sites, and that is planned to happen there. This is unacceptable to us, and obviously also to the people of Csepel, who have repeatedly expressed their opposition to this investment, as in the case of the pollution on Scented Road, as in the case of it, and here I am returning to the beginning. We do not want the Csepel container terminal to be the Scented Way of the future, we do not want to have to face another pollution in Budapest, and we even want the current pollution to be eliminated as soon as possible, and the Hungarians and the Hungarians in general to have a healthy, viable environment, as required by the Fundamental Law. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-17-167	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will meet next week at 11 a.m. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 7:25 p.m.]]
