u2016-11-02-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 16th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and István Ikotity will be taking part in this meeting. I welcome all those who are monitoring our work today. Today we start our work with speeches before the agenda. After that, the questions will take place from 11:50 a.m. to 13:20 a.m. to 13:20 p.m. to 14:20 p.m. to the hour of immediate questions and answers. Nándor Gúr, notary, applied for a pre-meeting speech:, How does the world change in a month? It's an address. You have the floor, Mr. Notary.
u2016-11-02-1	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, On October 2, there was an invalid and unsuccessful referendum. Well, a lot of money was abducted, 17-18,000 forints... [[There's a cell phone on the phone.]] We don't even really know that... Mr. President, I'm not to blame for the technique.
u2016-11-02-2	Wait a minute, I don't know what the mistake is, but it's very loud.
u2016-11-02-3	Maybe it's me on the phone after all. So 17-18 thousand forints were applauded, so it would be good to know today how and how these funds were used - while the resettlement takes place in Hungary. You know, they started with the Coptic Christians at the time, Minister Balog talked about it, even the Prime Minister, and then their resettlement program, the settlement programme, was put in place. It affects more than 4,000 people by the end of the year, and 18,000 people will be granted residence permits within Schengen borders, or residence permits, if any, in Hungary or anywhere in Europe. I have to say that this is the past and the present and, of course, together with the present, that Ukrainian pensioners are now accompanied by Ukrainian workers who are considered transitional in the third world. Because apparently, they'll leave our country soon enough. [[István Ikotity takes his place in the notary seat.]] What I'm trying to say is that while Jobbik is attacking this settlement bond story, of course, when there was a vote in 2012, Vona did not vote, and half of the faction took a stand. [[Gergely Farkas: Stop talking nonsense!]] But let us focus on the fact that, not after 2 October, the Hungarian Socialist Party, my right-wing fellow Members, tabled a legislative amendment proposal on 12 September, which included the intention of abolishing this project, together with the immeasurable profits, returns, extra profits that you have booked through businesses, offshore companies, a significant proportion of it, 75 percent of it, should be paid into the central budget. You swept this down, I add, in committee meetings. Because even on 3 October, Viktor Orbán said that this programme is a successful, safe and effective construction for Hungary. Of course, for friends, it's effective, no doubt, so this construction is obviously necessary in this sense, according to his words. Reaching, securing or extending the possibility of stealing is taking place in Hungary today, as Orbán also says that if not through this program, then through another. So, what are we up against today? Today, the Economic Committee's meeting will extend applications submitted to Hungary by nationals of Seychelles and majority owners of companies registered in Seychelles, which will be voted in favour. They're voting for me! Aren't you shocked at what you're doing? They think everybody's stupid, they think people suck up to everything. While, once again, buying back at the original nominal value will all be a burden for people and the benefits will be taken away by others in the story. I am not even talking about criminals entering the territory of the European Union, the fact that they are operating inaccessible systems, the fact that it can't be ruled out how the money landed in the hands of the figures close to the government can't be ruled out. I'm not even talking about that anymore. Rather, I just want to say that Hungary is failing a lot with this story. Friends win, of course, and the Hungarian people lose. At the moment, the taxpayers are about six billion forints down. For money, they sell the country's security, everything that's good for their friends, they support it. What they do is immoral, with few benefits, many losses, and, of course, security risks. Once again, I would like to stress to you that you should go in the direction that we set out in our bill of 12 September, and that is that these companies pay 75 percent of the extra profit into the central budget, which can also provide a basis for the fact that the vast majority of Hungarians can live a little better later. Think of the one and a half million people working under the minimum wage, that 2.2 million people working under the minimum living age, the 4.2 million who live their lives below the minimum living age. These people need a fresh source, not you, not your buddies. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-11-02-4	Thank you. Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to answer the question.
u2016-11-02-5	[[It's a loudspeaker error.]] It is weird to listen to the representative of the left who, when he was a left-wing government, made a proposal - and this proposal also took place at the government meeting - to install one million people in Hungary. It's weird to hear from you guys. [[Dr. László Varga: Is it okay that we don't hear it?! We can almost imagine what you're saying.]] It is strange to hear those comments from you if we know that left-wing parties collected signatures a year ago in addition to resettlement. It is strange for you to listen to these comments, if we know that you, when Brussels made the resettlement plans public, supported them tacitly throughout, and do not support the amendment of the basic law resulting from the referendum today. I would also like to tell you that the settlement policy is not an immigration issue, it is an investment issue, aliens are being relocated by the pro-immigration left. The introduction of the settlement policy in 2012 was necessary because the Hungarian economy was valued that year, thanks to left-wing activity, and it was a time of lack of resources, with all its consequences. In order to mitigate this, in addition to several other instruments, the residency bond programme has proved appropriate. However, the economy is much more stable today, which is also indicated by the ratings, so the government has ordered a review of the bond programmes. However, that review has not yet come to an end, and it has not yet been decided, and NGM will present its proposal by the end of the year. [[Nándor Gúr: There is the decision of the Economic Committee! Don't you know what's going on today?]] You are speaking in this House week after week on various matters, you have just referred to the lives of citizens, and when you speak, you are ignoring the measures and events that have a significant impact on the country's everyday life. [[11.10]] You also ignore the facts. You referred to the lives of citizens, but I don't hear you talking about the growth of the economy; that more than 600 thousand people work compared to 2010; that a total increase of 50 per cent can be expected from law enforcement workers and educators; that [[Interview from the benches of the MSZP: Abroad...]] I managed to protect the value of pensions while you took a month's pension from them. [[Interview from the benches of the MSZP: They must be protected from themselves.]] For example, a few months ago, you brought the issue of health care to order, which is a really important issue, but now you're listening to the increase of HUF 207,000 for specialists and nurses receive a 65 percent increase in the course of several years. If, for example, the health situation is really important to you, why do you not support and welcome these steps? By the way, people working in district offices and those working in government offices also receive more wages. [[Interview from the benches of MSZP: Who doesn't support it? Why are you lying?]] and these wage increases also show their impact in the market sector. In the first seven months, average wages increased by more than 7 percent. Just to mention one more thing that you're throwing away while you've been supporting it: from 1 January, the VAT on the most important food will be reduced. It's a measure that you've supported before. Therefore, the fact that Hungary is united in the most important things has enabled us to achieve many common results. I am very sorry that the MSZP is not part of this story. [[Zoltán Grimlock: All ministers, choppers!]] Dear House, We can then ask the question: what is the reason why the MSZP seems to be outside of the country and ignores common results? I've come to the conclusion that the primary reason for this is [[Dr. László Varga: Speak up, we can't hear you at all!]] The usual left-wing casting, the usual pre-election squabble, has begun again. The left-wing parties are less concerned with the affairs of the country at this time, except with the sharing, the konc and the available positions. [[Interview from the benches of the MSZP: Don't talk about it either.]] That is why we can read about the fact that the Democratic Coalition, which has been neglecting parliamentary work, has agreed with the MSZP on the candidates in Budapest. I don't know if the congressmen here have heard of this. [[Interview from the benches of the MSZP: A little more about what Orbán said...]] And if you've heard of it, we'd like to know what you think about it. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Helicopters!]] So the battle of the hungry for power has begun again, and this season has been many years. This promises little good either for the country or for the voters on the left. [[Interview from the benches of the MSZP: Why didn't you ask your party baron friend?]] There are two things that I would like to finally record in resettlement cases. [[Nándor Gúr: Party baron helicopter buddy!]] We do not accept lectures from the left who, when he was on the government, would have installed 1 million people in Hungary. Secondly, the internal issue of the MSZP is how it is preparing for the 2018 elections, but we are asking you that if you do not participate in the joint efforts, at least [[Nándor Gúr: You're pathetic!]] do not deny common results, even because there are millions of people working in it. Thank you for your attention. [[Nándor Gúr: You would have supported the bill of 12 September of MSZP. Dr. László Varga: I'm sure it was good, but we didn't hear it at all! Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-02-6	To speak before the next agenda, Ms Erzsébet Schmuck, Head of the Group, said: "Where does the government's economic policy lead? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2016-11-02-7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Fidesz's economic policy is a dead end. The LMP has been saying that for a long time. The government often says how important it is for it to get to know the voters' opinions on various issues, but so far there has been no national consultation in the areas of wages, health or education; it is no accident because we think that neither of them can be proud of the government. We need to ask why we are at the point of competing with Romania and Bulgaria today. Why have we not been able to reduce our disadvantage against Western European and regional countries in recent years? The answer is found in the government's dead-end economic policy. This economic policy is shaky. We are critically dependent on EU money - in 2015 5 percent of GDP came in. We are dependent on the automotive industry and on the return of foreign workers. Lack of expertise and emigration are increasing. And instead of creating the possibility of radical wage increases with the introduction of multi-key personal income tax and reducing contributions, the government does not consider that by installing foreign migrant workers it will continue to reduce wages and strengthen emigration. Of course, you can see that crisis signals are being detected by the government, but instead of changing directions, it's insisting on a dead-end economic policy. However, the Fidesz communication machine cannot admit failure because it considers it to be a sign of weakness. However, good governance involves admitting errors and being able to change. But the government is more likely to destroy hundreds of thousands of people's lives, but it's sticking to the wrong economic policy direction. This will soon lead to foreign migrant workers working in Hungary for hunger wages in the assembly plants of foreign large companies. All because they think that with some unorthodox measures, we will already become little tigers. They do not see that even Asian countries, which are considered role models, have taken several steps that the Fidesz government rejects. I would like to highlight education, health and governance. It can be said that no catch-up, success or innovation activity can be imagined without the development of education. Yet the only thing you have done in these areas is pointless and harmful centralization. Vocational training has also been adapted, with the sole aim of selling skilled workers to domestic and foreign capital as cheaply as possible. Hungarian small entrepreneurs complain that vocational training is one-sided, but only looks at the needs of multinational companies, even though they should not be accompanied by a professional barbar, but by flexible adaptable people who know more areas. Stupid vocational training is not suitable for this. It's not just about education, it's about knowledge. The economy of the future is knowledge intensive. Everyone knows that, but the Fidesz government doesn't. That is why, among other things, it is wrong to urinate, to enrich the narrow circle of friends without performance in public money. It's a clear way to live up to the future. This can be seen by many measures taken by the government, either by embezzling support for energy efficiency or by banning wind energy. We also need a drastic improvement in health care. Not only is hospital care in trouble, but general doctors, pediatricians, dentists are missing from more and more places, and in many settlements the physical state of health institutions is such that one would not want to go in there. And it should also be said that the working country lacks a prepared, non-corruption government. We know this is difficult for you to accept, but this is also an essential condition for recovery. According to the LMP, there is therefore a need for a new direction, especially to reduce social differences, to eliminate corruption and to move forward with work instead of with my brother's world. And the most urgent task in this is to base our strategy on knowledge instead of cheap labour in economic development. This requires increasing wages and spending on education, vocational training and health. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-11-02-8	On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor.
u2016-11-02-9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and Gentlemen, Although the political theme of the opposition is not my responsibility, I must tell you honestly, it has spoken for many times about the dead-end economic policy of the Hungarian government. Therefore, I wonder: is the situation so good in our country that your party simply cannot choose a topic other than that of Hungary, one of the success sectors of the Hungarian government, and the results of economic policy must be called into question? [[11.20]] I can honestly say that I find it a little odd, especially from a party that says for our tax policy that instead of our one-key personal income tax system, we need progressive tax rates, i.e. basically it says that we need to increase taxes in Hungary. The expansion of the family tax relief that we are pursuing is now reaching 1 million 100,000 families. Instead, you claim that family tax incentives may need to be reduced or eliminated. Or what should I tell you? You're not arguing with the government, you're not arguing with us, you're arguing with the credit rating agencies. Two of the three large credit rating agencies have already rated Hungary, and the third international credit rating agency is expected to do so this week. Or are you arguing with the European Union? The European Union recognises the government's achievements in this direction, and more than that, it puts Hungary at the forefront of Europe. Or should I mention the IMF to you? So you have better experts than the IMF or credit rating agencies? The IMF, which we thanked for its services in August 2010, commends the results of Hungarian economic policy. Let's see what you think is a dead end. I ask you, face to face, did you manage to reduce the budget deficit and get Hungary out of the excessive deficit procedure? We did it. Has the government debt been reduced, under 80% of GDP, and what is more, will it soon fall below 75% of GDP and eliminate our foreign currency exposure? Did it work? We did it! But let's keep going. Have we managed to achieve very serious European-level results in increasing employment? [[Lajos Korózs: No!]] The unemployment rate of nearly 12 percent today is below 5 percent. [[Lajos Korózs: That's not true! 8.5 percent!]] It is true that in Hungary in a few years, essentially thanks to the government's economic policy, there has been a shortage of workers, because we are now talking about it because of the growth of jobs. [[Lajos Korózs: Departure!]] That there is insufficient labour force and how we can make up for it, so that our economic growth is not limited. You say that only those who have high knowledge must be paid and employed in Hungary. We say that all workers must be employed and employed, including those who are not so qualified and who are not so qualified. By the way, it's possible for them to do the same. You talk about low wages. Of course, there is still work to be done. If you are monitoring the government's communication, Mr Mihály Varga, Minister of National Economy, he also spoke at his press conference today about the need to make a wage increase in Hungary in parallel with the reduction of contributions. I suggest you keep an eye on the events, and if you observe and accept our decision, and even support it, you will certainly no longer speak out against the government's economic policy. But I can tell you the same about the increase in consumption and the increase in real wages. Yes, there are serious results. True, the settlement of foreign exchange debt and the reduction of overhead costs also contribute to this. But the Hungarian economy also achieved that the Hungarian economy founded it so that the government could make such decisions. And it is not true that we have any shame in terms of GDP growth. Our results show that we are still among the first countries of the European Union in terms of economic growth. And if you don't mind, we will continue this economic policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-02-10	Thank you. Mr Gergely Gulyás, Vice-President, asked for a speech before the next agenda. You have the floor.
u2016-11-02-11	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In connection with convictions made in the context of reprisals after 1956, Parliament adopted a law in this parliamentary term which allowed not only rehabilitation to take place in these cases, but also the nullity of these judgments to be established by the Curia. After that, the Kuria, on the motion of the Attorney General, ruled that the judgment in Imre Nagy was null and void, and stated in its decision on Thursday that the judicial decision in Imre Nagy in 1958 was only a judicial judgment in its form, otherwise it had nothing to do with justice. He recalled that the death sentences of 15 June 1958 were carried out the next day in the proceedings for the exclusion of one degree of redress, and made it clear that there had been an act of justice, where innocent people were declared guilty, and that they had been punished for legitimate government activity. We believe that this judgment is of great importance in the sense that in the event of such a serious abuse of a right which cannot be called justice, rehabilitation is not sufficient, but the nullity of these judgments must also be established. We should all be pleased that this has been done in the trial of the former Prime Minister and his fellow martyrs. In general, we can say that, after 1990, criminal justice did not take place in an appropriate form, despite the support of the parliamentary majority of the then government coalition, but unfortunately, the conduct of the then President of the Republic, or a wrong decision of the Constitutional Court, made it impossible for those who committed the most serious acts during the communist dictatorship, whose hands were actually covered by blood, to have at least symbolically or partly to have criminal liability. That is why it is welcome that the new Fundamental Law was late after 2010 on the basis that justice was not possible during the communist dictatorship, and even until the adoption of the Fundamental Law, to hold true sinners accountable, so the statute of limitations rested in this period, and in the case of the most serious acts there must also be a place for criminal liability. Of course, what was timely in 1990, after 2010 and today, in 2016, due to the laws of biology, it is very important to make it clear that during the 1956 Revolution, the Hungarian nation acted unitedly against dictatorship, and very few of them were traitors like János Kádár, who returned to power by betraying the revolution with the help of the Red Army, and then provided for the execution of more than two hundred people, as the Curia has now stated, for justice itself was clearly an act in this period. It is therefore very harmful and suggests denying the crimes of communism, that there is still a party whose representative, in cooperation with the Russian state media in Putin, denies the event of the revolution of 56 and makes an insufferable, unacceptable, intolerable declaration. Of course, the least that a person may not be able to remain a member of a democratic political party in Hungary, but the question is that he may have been a member for years or decades, when he has already expressed his similar opinion in other ways. We believe, unfortunately, that there are few common foundations for the current democratic state of law in Hungary, but one of them is certainly what the first law adopted after the Fundamental Law and the first freely elected Parliament passed after 1990, that our present freedom was derived from the 1956 Revolution, so we believe that the preservation of the memory of the revolution, the worthy care of the martyrs of the revolution, is a common responsibility for all parliamentary parties. That is why we also find it regrettable that, despite its past, four parliamentary parties - two governing parties and two opposition parties - made that gesture to the successor of the Hungarian Socialist Workers' Party, conceived in sin and blood, in order to remember the importance of the 60th anniversary of the 1956 Revolution in a joint declaration, but the Hungarian Socialist Party did not make use of this gesture to the MSZP. We find this regrettable, and we hope that the time will come when Hungarian political life will be able to remember the 1956 revolution in a single sense. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-02-12	Thank you. State Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said. [[11.30]]
u2016-11-02-13	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The communist dictatorship has many victims in Hungary. We may not be able to take into account the many ways that the communist regime has tried to bring people's lives into the wheel, to make careers and family reunions impossible. Just think of the fact that immediately upon its formation, 800,000 of our compatriots were taken to the Soviet Union, one of the hundreds or thousands of forced labor camps, which the international public knows only as gulags. 200,000 of these 800,000 of our compatriots never returned home, but stayed on this little Malenki robot, as the Soviet soldiers cynically said, in small work. But there were two months when 50,000 people were dismissed from their jobs because they were politically unreliable. We can remember the bounty missions, the attic sweeps, we can remember the taking of the land, which made tens of thousands of rural families - or rather hundreds of thousands - either runaway or completely vulnerable. We can remember the death sentences, the 60th Andrássy Road, or other similar locations, some of which were taken over by the Arrowmen, both the building, the people and the methods; but not in the name of race theory, but in the name of class theory, but the same people in other uniforms worked with the same cruelty and inhumanity. This is well illustrated in the House of Terror by the changing room, in which the Rákosi system has already printed a form for those so-called small figures whose inhuman service was required by that system. But we can think of the forced labour camp in Recsk, where 1300 of our fellow countrymen were imprisoned, we can think of the more than 10,000 people who were deployed from Budapest in a few years, we can think of the 13 thousand who were carried to Hortobágy, either by assigning them an emergency home, or by forcing them to do forced labor. When they returned, they couldn't take their original apartment, their original workplace, but they lived under a stigma all along. And we can also think of the people who suffered death after the revolution and the struggle for freedom in 1956, there were hundreds or thousands who died in battle, but it is hundreds of death sentences made by the system of János Kádár, and with which he tried to intimidate the whole country, and 22,000 people were imprisoned even after the revolution in 56 because of their involvement in the revolution. So there are a lot of victims of the communist regime, who have tried to make it impossible, either legally or existentially or otherwise, to put them in a difficult position. I believe that the attitude of the former socialist-liberal government towards them is well demonstrated by the fact that from 2008, when economic austerity was implemented step by step, precisely the pension supplement for these people was frozen first and not increased in the same way as the basic pension amount. The Fidesz-KDNP government that took office after 2010 was therefore responsible for compensating for these missed increases. This has been done and, overall, we have increased the pension supplement for communist victims who suffered permanent deprivation of liberty by 50 percent. By doing so, we cannot by far compensate in suffering or in material terms for what they had to suffer unjustly and in sinlessly, but at least figuratively we were able to take measures for their benefit, to make up for what our ancestors did not do. We considered it important, even from the point of view of facing them, that despite the pressure and even the obligation of international forums, communist symbols, red stars or sickle hammers are equally prohibited by the Hungarian Criminal Code, such as the Arrow Cross or the swastika or the SS badge. None of them can be used, I believe, is the core and fundamental expectation of a European democratic attitude that the symbols of any dictatorship can be used only for historical illustration. Hungary also wanted to be the European engine of remembering them, so in 2011, during the Hungarian EU Presidency, we accepted our proposal for the Hungarian-Polish-Litvan initiative that 23 August was XX. European day of commemoration of authoritarian regimes of the century, i.e. a common day of commemoration of victims. It is also important that the Hungarian Criminal Code now contains expressis verbis that the crimes of communism, the terrors of communist leaders, cannot be denied. It's a crime, just like denying the Holocaust. Anyone who denies the atrocities committed in the name of the Communist state order, who denies their inhumanity, injustice, unfairness, is now committing a criminal offence in Hungary. And the Socialist Party itself decides what to do with opinions that deny the revolution of 56 and the values of revolution, but they also have to bear that whoever remains silent in this situation is an accomplice to those who deny the revolution of 56. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-02-14	Thank you. Member Márton Gyöngyösi has applied for the next speech before the next agenda:. Are you also in business with the devil if you have a personal business interest in him? Doesn't the country's security matter? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-11-02-15	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The last year has been about the anti-quota campaign and migration, and the very right effort to protect our country against multiculturalism and centralisation in Brussels, the dictatorship. At the same time, however, news has been growing that businessmen with questionable backgrounds are engaged in extensive business activities in Hungary, not only in dubious business activities, but they are engaged in these business activities with the effective activities and assistance of close-to-government people or government members. Perhaps one of the most interesting figures of these individuals is Ghaith Pharaon, who is a Saudi Arabian billionaire, and we know that he has been wanted by the FBI for two decades, and that there is still a valid FBI and Interpol search for him; and that recently, a few years ago, the French Parliament, in a resolution proposal, linked this Ghaith Pharaon to the financial network for terrorist financing, Havala, and this man is regarded by several global magazines and surveys as one of the most sought-after white collar criminals. In Hungary, this man is engaged in extensive business activities, and in this he also shows up close to the government, and he is assisted by people, government members and ministers. Ghaith Pharaon travels in nothing but buying monuments. Many of these are also known by name, the Apponyi Castle Hotel in Hőgyész, the Zichy-Hadik Castle in Hössélyes, the Postabank headquarters, which was recently purchased by this gentleman from István Tiborcz's company, and the Kútvölgyi villa here in Budapest, at the corner of Czinege Street and Kútvölgyi út, in the neighbourhood of Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Ghaith Pharaon's business in Hungary is supported by several members of the Hungarian government in a network-like cooperation, forming an alliance and creating a mafia-like network for Ghaith Pharaon. We have calculated that there are 11 ministerial wallets in Hungary, 6 ministers directly or indirectly involved in helping Ghaith Pharaon's business activities. We'll start with Antal Rogán, who, as a Member, submitted a law in 2012, resulting in the establishment of a government bond. Then the same Rogán Antal walked into the Economic Commission, which he was then president of, and approved the companies that provided for the distribution of these bonds. To date, we still have 100 billion forints in profit from people we don't know who hide behind offshore companies. And the government's communication on this matter is so double that today at the Economic Commission meeting, on other topics, there was a suggestion that the offshore company registered in Seychelle would extend the right to sell settlement bonds even to Seychelles. Péter Szijjártó, who is supervised by Nemzeti Kereskedőház Zrt. as Minister, has a joint company with Ghaith Pharaon, a company specialising in food import and export. And then there are, of course... - Minister Mihály Varga has recently presented a law, the 2017 budget, which allows the cost of the corporate tax base to be written down by HUF 31 billion. That's in next year's budget. And, of course, there are people covering for this activity. János Lázár, Minister for Information Affairs, has not heard of Ghaith Pharaon, or Sándor Pintér, after receiving information about Ghaith Pharaon from the FBI, has failed to fulfil his obligation under international treaties, has not arrested him, has not sought this internationally sought criminal. And your secretary of state, who is sitting here, and I hope that you will give me answers to my suggestions, says that this man has no property, no real estate in Hungary, after you have written in a letter about how many monuments, how many properties this man owns. [[11.40]] The person of Ghaith Pharaon raises several questions: you are either dilettants, and Hungarian national security does not work in Hungary, or you are part of this kind of network that operates here in Hungary, and you operate this system for your own personal interests and financial gain. Please respond, Mr. Secretary. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-02-16	On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond.
u2016-11-02-17	Honourable Congressman, It's a little weird to listen to Jobbik about security aspects, security risks, especially if we know that this party has been a serious security risk for as long as it's been around. Just to give you an example: you wanted to call the Iranian revolutionary guard in as an election observer. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Something From Our Day?]] As for the man Pharaon, I would like to inform you that in the Arab world it is a mass name, so we may not be talking about the same person. [[Martin Gyöngyösi: Here's the fingerprint.]] According to the authorities' information, Ghaith Pharaon is not in the country, and there is no such person living in Hungary. If Pharaon is clearly identical to the person on the wanted list of US authorities and is confirmed by the US authorities, the Hungarian authorities will catch him. By the way, the man who's been on the news for two decades has been wanted or not. That's weird because it's hardly possible that someone [[Márton Gyöngyösi: The BOLO is still valid!]] international authorities are seriously circling and walking around the world free. According to our information, Pharaon, whom the press reports, has repeatedly applied for visas to the Schengen countries, but no country has raised objections to entry. [[Adam Mirkóczki: That's not what you said in Homeland Security!]] His recent speech demonstrates what Jobbik has done in recent weeks: the party, which is supposed to be based on national foundations, has spoken in a mess. [[Adam Mirkóczki: It is good that you do not!]] Take, for example, the issue of the referendum and the resulting constitutional amendment. I mention this because you also refer to security aspects and security risks in this case. It is an important fact that Jobbik itself has previously supported the amendment of the Constitution, the party said that it supports the amendment of the Constitution, it is not a prestigious issue for it, and it is necessary to prevent the introduction of the quota system in Brussels by all means. The President of Jobbik even referred earlier to the fact that anyone who does not vote for this cannot see it as a traitor to his country. [[Martin Gyöngyösi: After the loopholes are closed.]] After that, however, something happened. We don't know, at whose request, who's suggesting it, we don't know how motivated it is, but Jobbik suddenly turned 180 degrees, and suddenly imposed conditions for constitutional amendment. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: You set the terms.]] Make sure he's got cute quizzes on his feet, dreaming of the sky, who understands why we're doing this, just rushing our heads. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Such a flower of words! You can do better than that.]] I would like to make it clear that settlement bonds and illegal immigration have nothing to do with each other. One is an investment vehicle, the other has serious economic, social and security risks. Jobbik's attitude is only incomprehensible because the government announced before Jobbik's hard work that it would review all the bond arrangements, as the state of the Hungarian economy is much better than it was in 2012. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Who believes it? No one believes it.]] You know that. However, this is an entirely independent issue from the amendment of the Fundamental Law. The government - and I would like to make that clear - will not allow any blackmail; 3 million Hungarians cannot be blackmailed. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Seychelles!]] Each party depends on its own conscience to recognize that the amendment of the Constitution is a national matter. And Jobbik, personally, I think you're too cowardly to vote for the amendment of the Fundamental Law. That's the thing. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: That was not the question! Adam Mirkóczki: Are you building legal certainty on this?]] There's one more thing worth recording here. [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] : Jobbik continues to be a very confusing couple. That's why they're organizing a no-union consultation, which is why they're still not clarifying the role of some of their leaders in VAT fraud, just like the widespread espionage scandal, they're laying low like dandering in the grass. Jobbik is also confused because there are still traceable strings attached to radical and extremist organizations. I would also like to remind you that if you are so sensitive to the security aspects that the man who shot a police officer in cold blood last week was hitting your punk buddy earlier, you have promised this Rogue Army that Jobbik will expect them in the field of law enforcement when it comes to government. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Why do you reproach the memory of a dead man? Sit down.]] I've taken just a few examples, but it's clear that despite the cute blinking vizsla and other cute things, Jobbik can do anything for power and money. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Our members do not sit for murder.]] But unfortunately, as we have seen, the protection of the country's interests is not an option. You know why you're doing this. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-02-18	Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the Group, asked to speak before the next agenda. You have the floor.
u2016-11-02-19	Mr President, Dear House, We live in the present, we respect the past, and we feel responsible for the future. In recent days, Hungarian people remembered the past when they visited the cemeteries and remembered their loved ones. This makes us think not only of the family, but also of the national people who were before us, who were fellow nations and who are no longer alive. But maybe I won't be a buzzkill if I'm talking about burial conditions and abuse for a sentence or two. Above all, however, allow me a few sentences about the two festivals. November 1st is the feast of all saints, November 2nd is the day of the dead. Long ago, in 308, the Eastern Church remembered all Saints; the Roman Church in 609 when IV. Boniface dedicated the Roman Pantheon to Mary and all the martyrs, and brought the martyrs' relics from the catacombs. This applies to the feast of all saints, which the church says is the honor of the glorious church. November 2nd, on the other hand, is about the day of the dead. This is a thousand-year-old celebration, it was established in 998 on the initiative of the Abbot of Cluny, who said that if 1 November is a celebration of all saints, then 2 November should be the day of remembering all the deceased. But we need to think not only about the dead of our family, but also about the members of our nation who lived before us. And if that is the case, then perhaps there are no more worthy sentences than those found in the National Creed of the Fundamental Law. This chapter places particular emphasis on continuity, even when quoting the historic constitution, and when it is called the constitutional state continuity of Hungary. And allow people to have two sentences, which, I believe, is a worthy expression of what I mean in remembering our fellow nations before us:. We are proud of our heroes fighting for the survival, freedom and independence of our country. We can add now, on the 60th anniversary, that we are also thinking about the heroes. And when this Fundamental Law interprets itself, it says the sentence, which is perhaps the most beautiful: the Association between the past, the present and the Hungarians of the future. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So not only do we create the nation that we are here, but everyone who lived in the Carpathian Basin a thousand years ago and claimed to be Hungarian. But, of course, responsibility for the future generation is also included in this sentence. And as I said, it may not be a celebration if I mention that there are maladministrations around funerals that we have to settle, and that is the task of the Hungarian Parliament. It is necessary to ensure that Hungarian families remember their loved ones in a dignified manner and do not have to seek alternative solutions that are comparable to their wallets. I can finish this speech as I began by living in the present, remembering the past with respect, and feeling responsible for the future. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[11.50]]
u2016-11-02-20	Thank you. State Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2016-11-02-21	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, Anyone who has been walking the cemeteries in the last few days or is going today can see that as far as possible, everyone is trying to guarantee and help the safety of citizens, with many vigilantes and many policemen, we are trying to make the moments of commemoration of everyone at peace. I think we've been able to do that in the last few days, and everyone who wanted to remember their parents, grandparents, relatives could do that in peaceful, peaceful circumstances. In many cemeteries, however, there are established memorial sites at the entrance or in one of the central areas, which are not meant for one person, but for persons who may even be one of the saints, who have no burial ground or other graves, or whose tomb is not found, and where a lamp can be lit. Indeed, there were quite a lot of candles burning there, and there are also memorial sites that can commemorate members of a city, settlement or part of a village, district, who died in the.56 revolution or other historical event, and there, whether unknown and respected, can light candles and place a flower there. 60 years ago, the day of the dead at that time, I think, was more or less pervading everyday life, as many people lost their relatives, relatives, acquaintances or just a familiar face from the other side of the street in the first days of the 1956 Revolution. And then it was even more memorable for many 1957 and the days of the dead at that time, when it was not possible to remember freely those who had been lost, who had been imprisoned, who had been in an unknown place, and who had been riding around behind crying mothers, who tried to light a candle at the entrance of a cemetery in memory of their son or daughter, or of their husband, who might not have known where he was, or knew that he had been buried somewhere in an unknown plot. In many cases, we know that even wrapped in tar paper, with barbed wire wrapped, the revolutionaries were buried face down, who could only be exhumed at the time of the change of regime. If we remember some of the deceased of the.56 revolution, I believe that Ilonka Tóth and Péter Mansfeld are two people who are familiar with the story. It was Ilonka Tóth who attended the student protests on 23 October, and then volunteered as a nurse on 25th, and became first member of the Péterfy Sándor Utcai Hospital's voluntary rescue service, and then, from 1 November, the head of the hospital's auxiliary department. He did not leave the cause of the revolution after the revolution: he made flyers in the production of the samizdat newspaper Élünk, and therefore, on 20 November he was arrested together with his associates Ferenc Gönczi and Miklós Gyöngyösi, and was sentenced to death in a conceptual trial on charges of manslaughter, and on charges of participation in the '56 organization. It is typical of the thinking of the then era that they tried to include the character of a public crime in the facts and thus condemn as a public criminal those who were in fact revolutionaries. The charge against him was that István Kollár's loader vein, who was thought to be a member of the ÁVH, was injected with gasoline, sleeping pills, or tried to kill him with a heart wound. Based on these baseless accusations, he was convicted, as I said, of death, and had to wait until 2001, before the court declared that sentence null and void. For many, Péter Mansfeld is also a well-known, emblematic figure of the revolution, since he was the youngest revolutionary to be executed, we can remember him on the day of the dead, because when this metal-strung worker was killed on 21 March 1959, he was 18 years old and 11 days old. We know that you waited until you were 18 years of age and were convicted directly under laws for which you were convicted even after you were 16 years of age, only the execution of the sentence was postponed until the 18th birthday. He fought in Széna tér, and, as I said, he was the youngest victim of the revolution; at the same time, his family suffered other parts of communism, since they dragged the male members of the family onto a málenkij robot, and he lost his life in retaliation in '56. I think we can remember many martyrs with candlelights and flowers, but we can also proudly remember the great figures of Hungarian history who look at us here in the image of a statue in Kossuth Square: II. Ferenc Rákóczi, Lajos Kossuth, Gyula Andrássy or Prime Minister Tisza, or if we go a little lower, István Széchenyi can find his statue in Széchenyi Square. They are great figures of history, great martyrs of the Hungarian XX. The history of the century, which we have commemorated here today. I think on the day of the dead, since they have made their greatest sacrifices for the nation, we can also remember on behalf of the nation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. István Józsa applauds.]]
u2016-11-02-22	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I now invite Mr László Földi to present the list of speakers after his agenda.
u2016-11-02-23	Dear Parliament, Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: Sándor Bodó, Fidesz; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Gergely Kulcsár, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; János Pócs, Fidesz; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik.
u2016-11-02-24	Dear Parliament, Now, at 11:55 p.m., we will begin to discuss questions and immediate questions. First of all, Sándor Szabó, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister a question: It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, on behalf of Minister of Interior Sándor Pintér, who is competent and competent on the subject, the question will be answered by Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. I give the floor to the congressman.
u2016-11-02-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Last month, the Government annulled its 2011 decision on a social house building programme to help foreign exchange credentials. About the time the program was implemented, Ocsa was found, where, according to the government decision now repealed, more than 500 houses were planned to be built on 66 hectares with institutional expansion; instead 80 family houses were built without institutions. As you know, several experts at the time confirmed that the project's expensive, out of the nearly 2.7 billion forints, could make more social housing instead of 80 family homes, either by converting family homes or apartments into social housing. At that time, a family house could have been bought for 7-8 million forints in the countryside, but even in Budapest, it was worth 10 million forints, instead of spending 34 million forints on one house in Ocsán, without being able to solve the heating in a state-of-the-art way. The wood reservoir, a well for irrigation, was also omitted, because it somehow did not fit into the price per square metre of half a million forints. It was very difficult to build the housing complex, and the National Asset Management took care of the housing complex. The 80 apartments were very slowly populated, because the conditions were strict at first, and apparently they didn't want to move to a settlement five kilometers away from a populated settlement, where transport was also poor enough. Finally, Net Zrt. managed to enter into a contract for the rental of all 80 houses at several speeds in November 2014. However, after the repealed decision, there are questions that I think should and should be clarified. Do you think it is appropriate that the construction of a social family house costs half a million forints per square meter? Have you examined why the construction of the residential area has cost multiples of the market price? Why has the 2011 decision been annulled, since there are still many foreign exchange creditors who need help today? Or are they no longer important? I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-11-02-26	I now give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás.
u2016-11-02-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The social family house building programme was appropriate at the moment of its start, as the government was looking for opportunities at that time that could provide a way for families and people in crisis to deal with their lives further. In fact, the government decided to build an apartment complex of social family houses next to Ócsa. The area was unmanufacturable at the time, so the area had to be publicized, it had to be provided with roads, so if we separate these costs from the costs of the family houses, then it is clear that the 50 sq m apartments, of which 50 pieces were made, cost HUF 13.5 million, the 60 sq m apartments, of which 20 were made, were worth HUF 15 million, and the 70 sq m apartments, of which 10 were built, cost HUF 16.8 million, so the construction cost of these apartments was HUF 250,000 per square metre. Indeed, according to the first phase of the investment in Ocsa, 80 apartments were built, and these apartments were rented, and foreign exchange taxpayers could move into them. [[12.00]] By repealing the government decision, the government does not, of course, give up the support of foreign exchange taxpayers, as a number of measures, laws have been adopted since 2011 in the framework of the Home Protection Action Plan, so - I can say - the exchange rate barrier, reduced end repayments, interest rate subsidies for smaller residents and the National Asset Management programmes. The National Asset Manager currently provides housing for 25 633 families, together with the houses in Ocsa, by taking over the apartments by the Asset Manager. Of course, we will continue this program. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-02-28	Dear Parliament, István Szávay, a representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources: Is it a program if we run out of applicants? It's an address. It's up to Congressman.
u2016-11-02-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of Jobbik's programme is to ensure that every Hungarian child, every Hungarian student can, in principle free of charge, get to a cross-border Hungarian territory within the framework of a class trip, participate in a programme, celebrate with Hungarian children across borders, strengthen their Hungarian consciousness, experience the experience of national cohesion. In recent years, however, this programme has worked scandalously every year, the calls have been delayed, the applications have been delayed, the accounts have been delayed, many have also lost their desire to participate in the otherwise over-bureaucratized tender, even if it was an opportunity for students. I have dealt with this on several occasions, and I have spoken within the walls of this House and at a committee meeting. What I would like to say, Mr Secretary, is that I am pleased that we have finally managed to publish applications in time this year, and it seems to have made sense to speak on several occasions because of maladministration and problems. So I would like to say that we are seeing an improvement in the area. However, there are still problems. On the one hand, the fact that this trip is still not completely free of charge for meals, insurance, more expenses and admissions cannot be charged. I proposed a replacement contest in this regard at the time, Mr Secretary of State said that it would only be possible to do so next year if a signal was received. My first question would be whether the EMET or the Ministry received the signals asking for the actual freeness of excursions from parents and teachers. The other is, however, that the system is still quite bureaucratized and too complicated. For example, it is completely incomprehensible to ask for three bids for each lot exceeding HUF 100,000, such as accommodation or travel. In many cases this is also pointless because of the size of the amount and given the relations between neighbouring countries, it is not easily feasible everywhere. Do you wish to reduce this bureaucratic burden, this bureaucratic rigour, so that the Unlimited! programme can work better and more schools can apply for it? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-02-30	On behalf of Minister Zoltán Balog, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will respond.
u2016-11-02-31	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, I am pleased that we can speak once again in Parliament about the Unlimited! programme. This has already been mentioned here, because the National Inclusion Committee is doing a great deal of work with the Member, so that we can make this programme as much as possible so that every child, every student, and every teacher can have the opportunity, as you said, to visit a Hungarian community across the border before graduation. This is shown by the number of participants and the number of participants, because while it started with 9551 students in 2013, if I only look at the seventh graders, it rose to 23 480 by 14 and then to 25 386 and 28 657 by this year. So year after year, the number of people who can take part in the seventh grade excursions increases. So this is a successful program, with a total of 87 thousand young people across the border from the seventh graders, 17 932 of the high school students and 18 153 of those attending vocational school. Obviously most people go to Transylvania in the first place, Szeklerland and Košice, the Košice area, which is the most popular among those who choose class trips. That is why we want to take this forward and encourage everyone to take part in the programme. There may, of course, be several directions to this, from the experiences that we have experienced personally in committee or elsewhere. This is how we want to extend the possibilities for the next year, on the one hand, to broaden the scope of the eligible costs, so that they can be used for certain types of programmes, for personal costs, and I think you agree that this should be extended or that there should be more funding for a child, so that these additional costs can also be covered by additional resources. This is still under the final touches in the negotiations between the ministries, and I hope that this expansion will be published soon, and the result will be that more people will ask for this non-refundable grant and more seventh-graders will cross the border. I would also ask you to support these objectives of the government. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-02-32	Erzsébet Schmuck, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister whether the government is putting a stop to the greed of the Orbán friends. It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, on behalf of Minister of Interior Sándor Pintér, who is competent and competent on the subject, the question will be answered by Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-11-02-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, When the press and the opposition suggested that the construction of the Roman-coastal mobile dam, which was used to cut up 1500 trees, which destroyed the last natural coastline of Budapest, might be necessary because of a large scale property speculation, the entire government side protested outragedly, accusing its opponents of the mobile dam of the threat of flood safety. In the meantime, prior to the introduction of a change ban in the area concerned, it was found, however, that certain housing park construction works were already under way in the area which would be flooded by the future dam, and that the lucky winners were mostly drawn out of the Prime Minister's environment, the government party's economic hold. For example, István Garancsi, who does not need to be presented to you or the Hungarian public. István Garancsi and his associates gain a billionaire profit from the fact that the future dam will make a floodplain area protected and built-in. Moreover, they are not subject to the prohibition of change, as licences were carefully granted to them before the ban entered into force. The only source of these gentlemen's profits is the 15-20 billion forints of public money that the state spends on the most expensive of all the versions examined, building the mobile barrier running along the coast. This is how the public interest in Hungary in Orbán becomes private interest, and the public property is a private benefit as a result of the machinations of the government side. Please inform us whether the government supports the decision of the Roman coast by government corruption instead of the price, or if they will finally take action against the damage to Hungarian taxpayers and stop the greed of the Orbán buddies. Thank you in advance for your reply.
u2016-11-02-34	Mr. Secretary of State has the floor.
u2016-11-02-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In the case of the coast of Rome, I think that an old debt should be repaid to those who have the obligation of flood protection in this area, and flood protection in relation to the coast of Rome is the capital's obligation; they must pay off their old debt to people who have built there with permits over the last decades and who have been constantly affected by floods. It is wrong to say that any real estate speculation would be the reason for the flood protection of the Roman coast. In the vicinity of the Roman coast, after the flood in 2013, people in that area also asked the government to find a solution that would protect their homes from returning flooding. I believe that all of you who have seen the floods and the damage caused by the floods on the coast of Rome are well aware of the need for the capital to take the necessary steps as a municipality with a responsibility for flood protection in this area. However, it must be stated that there is currently no construction permit to cut down 1500 trees, but not even a permit to start the mobile barrier. This programme is under close supervision by the European Union, an investment in which only a decision, a water permit, can be made to comply with all the provisions of the Directive establishing a framework for Community action in the field of water policy in the European Parliament and the Council of Europe. In the case of the investment start-up, the government decided to provide the HUF 10.52 billion necessary for the construction of the flood protection of the stellar cove, which will be available in the environmental and energy efficiency operational programme. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[12.10]]
u2016-11-02-36	Dear Parliament, Winner Vinnai, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office a question. It's an address. It's up to Congressman.
u2016-11-02-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, After the bombing on Teresa Boulevard, one of the police's theories was that an extreme right-wing paramilitary group might have committed the bombing downtown. That's why they decided to control radical organizations, which could have illegal firearms, explosives. In this line was one of the Hungarian National Frontlines, the former leader of which, István Győrkös, shot one of the officers who came to him for a search with a Kalashnikov. In the 1990s, Győrkös, on the extreme right, was sentenced to a suspended prison sentence for spreading the idea of national socialism. The Hungarian National Front Line is one of Hungary's largest and most organized paramilitary groups, planning an attack on Viktor Orbán last year. Due to the attack on the Prime Minister, one of the two men who were shut down by TEK can be linked to the Hungarian National Frontline, based on the information available on the Internet. The two men who claimed national socialist ideas were caught by the TEK immediately after the two men had a telephone conversation with each other, in which they discussed that they would go to Viktor Orbán's house with their cars loaded with firearms and explosives to finish off with the Prime Minister. The Hungarian National Front Line cooperates with the Rogue Army, the leader of which is Zsolt Tyirityán, the personal friend of Gábor Vona, President Jobbik. Jobbik's party foundation also supports the Sixty-four Vármegye Youth Movement, whose former president and best-known face is the current Vice President of Jobbik, László Toroczkai, as well as Mayor Zoltán Orosz Mihály Érpataki, who has a good relationship with Győrkös. István Győrkös was held in Bőny by a number of people because of his strange, isolated behavior, and everyone knew that he held weapons in his home, and that Győrkös led training several times a year, sometimes involving hundreds of extremist youths. Dear Secretary of State, Previously, the far-left labour force was connected to the MSZMP, the paramilitary organization of the predecessor of the MSZP. Now, Jobbik has these threads that we're seeing multiple points of contact with paramilitary organizations. In light of this, where do the strings lead? Thank you for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-02-38	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary.
u2016-11-02-39	Thank you for the floor. Honourable Congressman, After last week's brutal killing of police officers, it is indeed worth examining whether the individual parties and Jobbik are really cooperating with extremist, radical organisations. I'd just like to remind everyone here that the man who shot a cop in cold blood last week used to move around with his buddy with the Betterman army. The Jobbik promised this Rogue Army that he would expect them in the field of law enforcement when he came to government. There have been signs of cooperation before, the Yeller Army has organised a Hitler Memorial Tour, and not by the way, its leader claims to be a Nazi and talks about the hierarchy of species, and, by the way, is a close friend of one of Jobbik's high-ranking leaders. There's something else. Based on a phone conversation previously received, there is a division of labour between Jobbik, the Yellers and the Sixty-four County Youth Movement, where these latter can say the things Jobbik cannot say for tactical reasons, because it is not a nice story. So it is clear that Jobbik is a troubled party, and we can only hope that the party will be a partner in clarifying these matters once it is so sensitive to security risks. [[Dóra Dúró: We have issued a statement! We're clear.]] It's in our best interest to find out what's really going on in the shadow of tabloids and other cute things. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-02-40	Dear Parliament, Mr. Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. How long will the government stand by and watch the housing crisis? Did you know that this year there have been more than three times as many evictions as before in a year? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-11-02-41	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As stated in the title, three times as many families were evicted in Hungary by the end of September as in the previous years, and I would like to recommend to you the study of the Hungarian National Bank that has recently seen the light of day. According to this, there are about 130,000 problematic debtors; I stress, according to the Hungarian National Bank's records. Dear fellow Members, More than 2,000 families were evicted following the eviction moratorium, and more than a thousand court decisions were taken, and - let my fellow Members hold on - 15 thousand families await eviction in Hungary today. It is clear that the family bankruptcy, which was announced about 13-14 months ago with a large dérrel major, was a failure, since 500 of them were all registered. I remember then, in the explanatory statement, about 30-35 thousand were placed in the number of families who could be potential clients in this family's bankruptcy protection. If we look at these 500 applicants - I stress, they have not yet received a positive assessment, they have only logged in - about 6 percent of potential clients. I must also mention, fellow Members, that 840,000 people are experiencing serious affordability problems according to surveys, and 246 thousand people have said that they have recently been unable to heat their homes properly. And, of course, hundreds of thousands of people are waiting for the service provider to turn off electricity, natural gas or district heating. That is why I ask the Secretary of State: when will the government have a coherent rental program? When does the government pursue such a policy as to provide cover for those in need, the truly poor, as well? Thank you very much.
u2016-11-02-42	I give the floor to Secretary Bence Rétvári.
u2016-11-02-43	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Let us not forget that this government had to start the operation six years ago by saving hundreds of thousands of families from the crisis of foreign exchange lending and from the situation. Hundreds of thousands of families stood there, saying that from today to tomorrow, their housing would cease in 2010 or 2011. The situation of these families has been improved, and they have been saved from this immediate danger. In fact, now there are many different options for families, it is enough to think only about the CSOK, where a family with three children can receive 10 million HUF and non-refundable funding. It is not, therefore, that the loan-refunding details due to the increase in the exchange rate cannot be managed from month to month, but that they receive HUF 10 million as a non-refundable grant from the State in order to base their own housing. He was still in a difficult situation because of previous problems, not only the residential park in Ocsa, but also the National Asset Manager was able to come to his aid and do so later, since until 30 September, a total of 37 900 real estate offers were received by National Asset Management Ltd., and the National Asset Manager will buy the property for all families who comply with the legislation. When we look at how much less people have problems with credit repayment now than when the Socialists stopped governing, we see that 414 thousand fewer people have problems with credit repayment. And if we look at how much less people are now having problems heating up their homes after the reduction of the rent, Eurostat calculates that, not government, but Eurostat estimates, the number of people who have problems heating up the apartment has decreased by 450 516 in the order of magnitude. I feel that this or the 30,000 families that have already claimed the CSOK prove that families are in much better housing conditions today than they were six years ago. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-02-44	Dear Parliament, Tamás Pintér, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Why do you not feel the situation of teachers who have been tricked by the promises of the government's moral obligation? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-11-02-45	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, It's probably unknown to you what they say, but there is one such thing: promise is a good word, if you keep it, that's good. Well, I say this because, in recent times, many teachers have been shocked to learn that, unfortunately, the promises made to them so generously have become empty once again. At the March meeting of the Public Education Round Table, the Minister made a clear promise to teachers that those who reach the retirement age within a certain period of time would automatically be transferred to the higher-paying educator II. Grade 1. [[12.20]] The same promise is given in an information letter sent to the institutions. Well, that is why we are all confused about the recent amendment of the Government Decree, on the basis of which there will be exceptions from those involved. They are the ones who previously participated in a so-called unsuccessful rating procedure. At present, more than a thousand teachers are in an unworthy position not to be moved to higher levels. There is concern that many of you have been involved in the certification procedure because of the Government decree that you have amended, although they would not have been required under the Public Education Act. It is therefore outrageous that they could thus also prevent the higher qualification of teachers who would automatically qualify for it by virtue of the law. This is not the first time the problem has been raised within the walls of this House, but there is still no solution. Dear Minister, That's why I'd like to ask you my questions. When do you intend to settle the situation of teachers who are not affected by wage increases, who are indefensibly underdeserved? Why didn't you inform the people concerned of the expected amendment of the regulation, taking away the preparation time? Last but not least, why does the amendment not include the promises made in spring? I would be honored to thank you in advance for your reply. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-11-02-46	Mr. Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-11-02-47	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You have not long been a Member, so allow me to explain exactly what this process is about. Our goal was to pay as much as possible the work of teachers who spend more time, more energy, on educating children. That's why we created the teacher II. the degree, so that the person who shows that he wants to do more than the average, should have a higher step, 30-35 thousand forints higher than the average. At the same time, it came up on the public education round table that teachers who are already seven, six or five years ahead of retirement age need this full upload, whether this entire procedure is necessary to go through and achieve higher grades. Finally, the public education round table decided that about 13 thousand teachers would not be required to do so, but that they would automatically be the educator II. they're going to grade up. They did, so the problem of 90% of the circle concerned was settled by the public education round table this spring. At the same time, there were educators who, for some reason, started in this rating process, but did not come to an end. We don't know that the exact reason they didn't get to the end is because they didn't really want to start, and they only submitted these papers because of the school principal's depression, or why they didn't pay the check, or they started, but they didn't have the right thing to do, and they weren't qualified and they couldn't. This is a heterogeneous circle of about 1300 people. This is why the public education round table decided to provide them with a free and shortened, accelerated procedure, only for this special staff group, who can now pass this qualification by March and be placed in a higher category, thus making it easier, simpler and faster for teachers II. Category 1. By the way, as the word "promise" is a good word, in our information materials of 21 June 16, in the publications of 29 July and in the news of 12 May, we reported exactly as it was included in the legislative amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-02-48	Dear Parliament, Mátyás Firtl, representative of KDNP, would you like to ask the Minister of Defence a question: It's an address. It's for the congressman.
u2016-11-02-49	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, We are pleased to hear that the Hungarian Defence Office's action is rising again. The government's decision is therefore unbroken in the development of a system of salary increases and wage benefits. As the Minister announced last week, the current increase concerns all crew members, thus giving special consideration to the service of the crew. According to the decision, among non-graduating soldiers, the salary of public soldiers will increase to 180,000 gross, the salary of the guards to 190,000 gross, the corporals to 200,000 gross, and the sergeants to HUF 220,000 gross monthly. All members of the staff concerned will receive their increased salary in October, i.e. as early as November. Dear Minister, Our soldiers have been guaranteeing the country's security and protection of our borders for more than a year in the face of modern migration and terrorist threats affecting Europe. Thank you for that. In addition, the Hungarian army has proven itself on several occasions, whether it is professional or protection against natural disasters. I think we agree that the salary increase is of great importance for the appreciation of our countrymen and the recognition of their work. I ask, Minister, how does the increase that we have just introduced fit into the previously adopted concept; what factors are behind the increase; what increases and other remedial measures are still expected for the stock. I look forward to your reply, Minister. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-02-50	I give the floor to Minister István Simicskó.
u2016-11-02-51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, allow me to thank you for your question and your words of appreciation for the Hungarian defence. Besides, as Vice-President of the Defence and Police Committee, we do so regularly, so we should like to thank you once again, and I would like to emphasise this here. In his question, he did make an important statement, which shows that we are committed to the development of the Hungarian Defence Forces, and obviously we are trying to justify this by many steps. I believe that the current increase in salary, in addition to the previously decided salary increase, is a draft of a so-called additional salary supplement, which we are now implementing, is an important factor of appreciation. Indeed, because the crew, the public soldier, had a gross salary of HUF 176 thousand. This has now been raised to 180 thousand for the non-graduation soldier, and so on, to 220 thousand forints for the sergeant, which is a significant increase, an average increase of about 30 per cent. This will be incorporated into the five percent salary increase that has already been decided for next year, and in addition to that, the soldier will receive the 5 percent salary, and we will consider this as a basis for his salary, and the salary will again increase by 5 percent in January. I think it's very important that we show our appreciation in this way. It is important that when our soldiers are able to stand and defend our borders around the world, we really express it in the form of a salary increase, especially for those who are doing this executive work, our appreciation and our respect. It is important to be able to outline a long-term career in front of the soldiers, a career. It is important to suggest predictability with all this, making military vocation attractive. The only profession today is the military profession in Hungary, in which the soldiers accept their oath to sacrifice their lives to defend their country. Protection of the country is a common national issue, so it is important to show our appreciation and respect in this way. Allow me to thank our soldiers, both in 13 countries around the world and for the protection of our borders, and thank you very much for asking this question, and for supporting the issue of the protection of the country. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-02-52	Erzsébet Schmuck and Ikotity István, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources: When will the Hungarian Government fulfil its international obligation to change the Church Act? It's an address. Mr István Ikotity has the floor.
u2016-11-02-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The new Hungarian Church Act adopted by you has been found by the European Court of Human Rights to be contrary to international law and has obliged Hungary to change it. They were unable to obtain adequate support for their proposed legislation, including because the constructive proposals made by the LMP were not accepted. With regard to the bill, we considered it important to point out that, although it did contain forward-looking solutions, it did not meet the objectives set, because it laid down conditions which were still excessive in order to achieve church status and did not provide sufficient guarantees against arbitrary application of law. Church organizations need a predictable, fair and as far away from daily politics as possible church regulation. The Fidesz proposal separated five church categories, which unnecessarily complicated the law that made it unfair for small churches. In our proposal, three categories would have been sufficient. It is in the national interest to establish a church regulation that sets equal standards for all churches, which are not privileged and which does not impose unfulfilled conditions. [[12.30]] A regulation must be put as far away as possible from the influence of day-to-day politics. The LMP considers it particularly important that we settle this debt and ensure that the Hungarian Parliament has the right European regulatory framework for churches and religious communities. I ask Mr Secretary of State when the government will finally fulfil its international obligation to change the Church Act. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-11-02-54	Mr. Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-11-02-55	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It seems that in a year, our memories of what happened to the amendment of the Church Act here in Parliament are very much worn out, so allow me to clarify more of what you have said. Firstly, the court cannot oblige Hungary to change the laws under the Statute. Here there was a procedure for damages, in which we agreed with six applicants, with three applicants a partial agreement was reached, and only the remainder had to be decided by the court. But it defined what the Hungarian State had to pay to the applicants in terms of the amount of the government close to the previous offer. At the same time, on the basis of the previous decisions of the Constitutional Court and the decisions of the ECHR, the Hungarian Government submitted a proposal for an amendment here, to Parliament, which, as a two-thirds law, should have been supported by one of the opposition parties. This shows that opposition parties have a strong sense of responsibility in legislation when they have some part government responsibility, as the opposition now has an important vote in a two-thirds law, and we will see that on 8 November, of course. But at such a standard in the previous year, when the government put the changes that had been made earlier into legislative form, when it came to the vote, none of the opposition parties supported this. In the proposal, there were three types: religious association, registered church and registered church; therefore not five, as the Member said, but three. It would have taken 400 people to make a 1-percent sija offer to get the registered church status. So this is also different from what the Member said. The LMP did not withdraw from this amendment at the beginning, but in the end it voted against this proposal. International practice does not require that all churches be measured on an equal legal standard, but that they must be objective in the system of criteria by which the government obviously cooperates with the smaller church differently than with a larger church. A year ago, we tried to settle this situation, because of your non-voting, we failed to resolve this situation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-02-56	Dear Parliament, Mónika Dunai, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-11-02-57	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, We at Fidesz-KDNP work to give our children the best possible care, even if their mother stays home with them until the end of kindergarten, and even if she chooses to go back to work and leave her children in charge of nursery care and small children. Babies and young children have been active in Hungary since 2009 as six semesters of initial education in 12 higher education institutions. On average, 200 people have graduated from daily and correspondence courses in the last three years. The number of applicants has increased more than three times this year compared to 2015, which means that this profession has become more attractive to young people and non-tertiary nursery workers. In the future, we would like to see as many people choose to raise young children as possible and as many of those with secondary education as possible to get higher education. This is why we have decided that the pedagogical career should extend to young children and professionals in nursery schools with a higher education degree. From January onwards, the salary of some 900 people increased by HUF 40-60 thousand per month. We have also decided to raise the wages of young children with secondary education next year. Forints and a half billion are available for this purpose. This means that these employees can expect an average increase of 12%, a gross HUF 17 thousand plus. I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary of State, what kind of help you can expect from daycare workers. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-02-58	Mr. Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-11-02-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I think that the 21st of April, day of day of day of day for daycare workers, and every other day when parents take their children to the nursery, is an important time when we can draw a measure of what we could do to help those who work in the nursery or those who take their children to the nursery. And here we talked about a lot of things, such as increased free food rights, because in the nursery and kindergarten there are now 318 thousand children who are entitled to a free meal. Here, the most important thing is to pay attention, the most often to the children here; so here was the increase that we have been able to give to the parents of the children who have taken them to the nursery in recent years, and we hope that we can continue to carry this, since nine out of ten children of nursery age can now eat free of charge. But it was important, as the Congresswoman pointed out, to the respect of the people who work here, because there are more people now working in the nursery than before. In the last five years, there has been a 22 - percent increase in nursery seats, and this required an increase in the number of young children, i.e. by 15 percent. Thus, more children in crèches are expected to pay higher salaries for more children in crèches. As has been said, as of 1 January this year, higher education graduates have been included in the pedagogical system. This is, as the congresswoman said, 40-60 thousand forints a month. Let us add that they are obviously subject to family tax relief. We are trying to help as many as possible to get higher education from secondary school, so that the duration of six semesters of training can be reduced for them, and we also want to give scholarships as an incentive to those who want to get higher education. The fact that from 1 January next year, depending on the degree of payment, the surplus may be up to HUF 33 000 for those with a secondary endowment also shows that the general wage increases also cover small children in kindergarten in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-02-60	Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. How long will the government stand by and watch the housing crisis? Did you know that thousands of children today have no address and are not receiving any care? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-11-02-61	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Four thousand children do not have a valid address in Hungary, so they fall away from almost all social services. Another 1500 minors only have address at municipal level, which makes access to care significantly difficult. Let us see what causes these children to fall today in Hungary! Health care is first and foremost. Currently, only children who have a registered place of residence or residence in Hungary are entitled to state-supported healthcare, but families do not receive any family support or social benefits for these children, because only the family who has a registered place of residence is entitled to a family allowance, family allowance and regular child protection allowance, as is the only way children can receive the allowance for free institutional meals. In addition, so-called municipal aid must also require a registered place of residence or residence. There are thousands of families living in apartments where the owner does not consent to the address announcement and the child arrives under such circumstances. Moreover, some families are constantly forced to move because of their financial problems, so they can easily lose sight of child protection. Mr. Secretary. We're talking about a small town of children. 4,000 plus 1,500 kids. For all these reasons, Mr State Secretary, what is the Government doing to deal with the housing crisis? How long are you going to stand by and let thousands of families and their children not have access to any health and social care in Hungary today? I would ask the Secretary of State not to give me an answer like the Secretary of State Czibere last week, which he did not give us. I'd like you to answer my question. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-11-02-62	I give the floor to Secretary Bence Rétvári.
u2016-11-02-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, The government spends much more on family support, including support for children in need today than before, just to help them, so it can reach much more children and families with children. [[12.40]] You know that if we look at next year's expenditure in proportion to GDP, we spend 4.7 percent of GDP on family support. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Talk about the 4,000 children, Mr. Secretary of State.]] , this is above the OECD's 2.5 percent average, and this is 42.7% higher than the last budget you adopted. Today, all children in Hungary, regardless of the address card issue that you have received here in writing from an open letter published last week or before, have three basic types of support. One of them is voluntary, for example child welfare services, for which there can be no grounds for refusal if a child does not have a home address card; in respect of crisis services, the law requires that the municipality be provided and assisted, regardless of the area of competence, so it must also be universal to the authorities; and the third is the administration of public affairs, where it is primarily to be handled according to residence, where there is no place of residence, if there is no place of residence, then according to the last place of residence, and if there is no last known place of residence, then the V. district guardianship, acting on behalf of the Central Government Office, must act. So you can't be a child who can't benefit from one, other or third-type public service. With regard to family benefits, the address of the child is indifferent, there is no need for a home address card to be used, as the legislation provides for precise arrangements for how to do this, cash benefits can be taken over by post, and they can be paid to a bank account, so no child can stay today without an address card. The law clearly sets out the form of their care. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-02-64	Dear Parliament, Ander Balázs, a representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister for National Development: å Why do not they do anything to facilitate the situation of thousands of workers working in the carriage of goods by road? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-11-02-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The freight market for road transport has been the victim of full market opening after accession to the EU. The transport of goods is obviously necessary to maintain economic viability, but we must not forget that we are a transit country, so in Hungary about 40 percent of heavy goods vehicles are not domestic but foreign vehicles. All of this, combined with infrastructure depreciation and other external costs, puts an annual burden on our country of approximately HUF 350 billion. In terms of Hungarian workers in the sector, even the fact that employers are almost free to push off working time is a negative factor. After all, the vague wordings of the AETR and the Transport Act, as well as the Code of New Work, unfortunately allow employers to do so. The length of employment abroad also depends on the goodwill of employers. It is therefore a legitimate complaint from its employees that the Fidesz New Labour Code has destroyed the rights of representation, so it was prognostic that employee vulnerability would also increase. The current chronic shortage of labour is not the result of chance in the sector. Overemployment, low wages and the lack of employment, which degrades workers in this sector, led together to accumulated problems. Without a sectoral collective agreement, no improvement can be expected; labour shortages will only force wage increases in the short term. It would be necessary to clarify legislation on truck drivers, such as clarification of the concept of posting in the labour code. But there is also a legitimate question as to why they are not finally willing to negotiate with the representatives of the workers' side in substance, to listen to their suggestion and thus to help resolve the situation of thousands of workers so that driving can become a profession. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-02-66	I give the floor to Secretary of State László Tasó.
u2016-11-02-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for asking, also because I am happy to inform you that the Government Decree on the National Training Records has changed since 1 September, and as a result, with the creation of a new qualification for truck and bus driving licences, we can also demonstrate that the Hungarian Government is paying attention to what is happening on the motor vehicle market and that we can clearly see that there is a shortage of drivers. That is why we think that this is how we have been able to professionalise the form of training itself, and that we have been able to create the opportunity to re-energise from the state budget. You are well aware that we are dealing with this issue with a great deal of force, and you must also have the right information that not too long ago we allowed access to the Type C licence from the age of 18 years, although in Hungary only until the age of 21 years, and you also know that in category D, it is true that we have taken back the age limit only until the age of 24 years in Hungary. We're also trying to help with the problems. What was the other side of your question was how much the new Labour Code regulates employee interests. What I would like to confirm is that you are giving him a loose frame, and the government is only interfering to the extent necessary for the employee side. So we give the guarantees to them, not to the organization itself, but the organizations haven't been complaining lately about not having their driver's licenses. I think our negotiations are also rather forward-looking. So I feel that what the Hungarian government has been able to do over the past period has been done to reduce the lack of drivers. The other is that I'd rather be more specific about working time. We are therefore obliged by EU legislation to monitor compliance with working time. There is no wrong speech in this regard, we need to be clear and we can see clearly in it. I don't see any signs that would overshadow that. And one more thing. The government is linking the reduction of contributions to wage increases for workers. That tells me more about everything. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-02-68	Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-11-02-69	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The 3 October issue of the KSH Statistical Mirror analyses the situation of the R &amp; D area in 2015. The material deals separately with the data of the university-college sector. The LMP believes that higher education should be one of the main bastions of domestic R &amp; D &amp; Innovation. Compared to this, the recent data show a very devastating picture of this area. Let me quote three sections of the KSH analysis. The decline in R &amp; D activities in the higher education sector is ongoing, which can be observed in both research sites, staffing and R &amp; D expenditures. In 2015, there were a total of 1253 research sites in 66 higher education institutions, 35 or 3 percent less than in the previous year. The ratio to all research sites didn't reach 45 percent. Research, experimental and development activities were dealt with by 21 998 people, a slightly higher than average 2 percent increase compared to 2014. The number of researchers was 1.8, and the number of auxiliary staff was 2.4 percent less. The decline in R &amp; D expenditure in the sector continued, universities and colleges spent 4.7 percent less in 2015 compared to the previous year, a total of HUF 56.7 billion, and almost 12 percent of national spending on R &amp; D activities. The primary financial source of R &amp; D in universities and colleges is the state budget. More than three quarters of the total R &amp; D expenditure, 42.7 billion HUF, was financed, thus the decrease was 3.3 percent, while the increase was 9.8 percent at the national economy level. Dear Secretary of State, What is the reason for this, why research and development is weakening, what is the government doing, how will Hungary be competitive? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-11-02-70	Mr. Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-11-02-71	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We can approach the issue from several directions, as there are additional sources coming from several directions to those who are engaged in research, development and innovation in Hungary. On the one hand, a large, comprehensive wage increase programme was launched this year in the university sphere on 1 January, which increased wages by 15 percent from 1 January this year, with an additional 5 percent from 1 January next year, and wages increase by 5 percent in 18. Thus, overall, the salaries of higher education workers will increase by 27 percent by 2018. I believe that this is an important aspect in maintaining and encouraging the most involved academic staff in R &amp; D. [[12.50]] However, there is obviously a need for additional resources to do so, and I can account for a much larger scale in the expansion than the Member has said. If you look at the fact that there are three operational programmes including EU funds, and in addition, the National Research, Development and Innovation Fund resources based exclusively on Hungary are included in the reinforcement of R &amp; D &amp; I capacity in Hungary, this represents a total of HUF 330 billion in 2014-20, which is a significant expansion. We can add to this the overall financial framework of the Horizon 2020 programme, which is EUR 80 billion, which we also have. So I have to say that we can guarantee hundreds of billions of HUF from the budget resources of the Research, Development and Innovation Fund, from the EU funds of three operational programmes and from other direct sources in Brussels. In addition, the additional expenditure to be spent on the 15 per cent increase in higher education wages and 27 per cent overall needs to be calculated. I think Hungary looks good in this. If I look at it as a proportion of GDP, Croatia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland and Slovakia will be spent far beyond such expenditure on research and development. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-02-72	Dear Parliament, László Teleki, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy:. Why has vocational training been dismantled? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-11-02-73	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I'm asking this question because I see that you don't like skilled workers. The reason they don't like it is because none of the measures that have been taken in the past have served the existence of skilled workers. Why do I say that? If I highlight one, they may well understand what I'm talking about. One: when the school obligation was reduced from 18 to 16 years, they dug the graves of skilled workers because most leave school with that measure. Therefore, you must have wanted to weed out a single layer, a layer of skilled workers, because they are less able to get there so that they can get enough work for themselves. Therefore, I would like to ask the Secretary of State, the representative of the Government, whether they wish to make any changes in order to stay as long as possible in the school system. That would be one of my questions, because if not, then there is nothing to talk about, then the situation remains, the void that we can see, that very many leave educational institutions prematurely, so that they cannot become skilled workers. But I think the other question is also very important. I have received feedback from many places that practical instructors are not appreciated. They are not appreciated either because the work they do is not embraced by anyone, and at government level there is no way to see that they are treated on an equal level with teachers, they are often at a disadvantage compared to educators. Therefore, my question is whether the practical instructors will be given the opportunity to feel the weight of the work they are doing, because today their biggest complaint is that neither their classification is what they should be, nor the means for practical education that they will have to work with. Here is a specific example: for example, in a carpentry plant there is not enough material to work. And you can't study a profession if you don't have enough material to train skilled workers. They should therefore focus not only on training but also on practical education. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-02-74	I give the floor to Secretary Peter Cseresnyés.
u2016-11-02-75	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Although these questions were not mentioned in the original question, I would definitely like to answer. I hope that you will receive reassuring answers, because your thoughts and questions - both in writing and in the oral ones - have shown that you have not been sufficiently informed about the objectives and the reasons for the change in vocational training. I would certainly like to mention two, which are linked to your thoughts and your question. One of the most important objectives was to ensure that vocational training and vocational training years were not a dead end for the students there, and that it was possible for everyone to continue learning regardless of the type of institution. The second main objective was to transform vocational training institutions and vocational training itself in a way that would create training that would meet labour market needs, create skills and know-how in the hands of future skilled workers, so that they could be effectively placed and do a good job. This is why we included, among other things, the world of entrepreneurs, the best-known company in the economy, the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, in the transformative work that has taken place in recent years. But also to talk about the vocational schools and the training courses there: of course, both teachers and instructors are constantly appreciated. This is what educators' wage increases mean, and we also consider it very, very important to hire and appreciate teachers. But in order to have the knowledge of students in vocational school, we have repeatedly said that the high school graduate is equal to the high school graduation, but in vocational training they have more knowledge, as they can learn the materials closely related to their profession, their professional qualifications. So what you claim is not true is that vocational training in vocational schools is carried out in an inadequate and appropriate manner by teachers working there. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-02-76	Dear Parliament, Gergely Kulcsár, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture:, Why doesn't the government do anything to remove the hazardous waste in Komadi that killed dozens of people? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-11-02-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The town is located in the southern part of Komádi Hajdú-Bihar county, whose inhabitants have unfortunately been decimated by cancer for decades. This type of disease is many times the national average, and there are parts of the city where almost 80 percent of deaths are caused by cancer. About a mile [1.5 km] from the city was a landfill for decades, with the number of diseases already mentioned on the nearest streets. The landfill consisted of two parts, one part of which was once placed with pieces of waste, and the other part was a contaminated swamp where the contents of tank wagons were emptied in the form of sewage, agricultural by-products and liquid waste of unknown origin. According to locals, in the eighties, dozens of barrels of unknown contents were sunk in this place. A few years ago, the city administration liquidated the landfill, but the circumstances of this are rather vague, and there are only speculations about it. The whole colony was excavated with machines, decades of dirt, possibly hazardous waste, and was covered with public workers and machinery. According to stakeholders, public workers worked without protective clothing and other health protection. The contaminated swamp was filled and used with crops, and the rest were replaced by a huge artificial hill. It is also noteworthy that the drinking water in Komád is of such poor quality that it had to provide temporary water for the defence several times. Dear Secretary of State, Have you ever dealt with this problem? Has the waste site been disposed of in compliance with the relevant legislation? Do you plan to take any steps on this matter at government level, as this is a very important issue for the people of Komádi. That is why I look forward to your meaningful reply. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-02-78	I give the floor to Mr. István Nagy, Secretary of State, and I say good-bye to you because I give you the presidency.
u2016-11-02-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Not then, not there, things didn't happen the way you said they did, and it's a very dangerous thing for a congressman. Let me tell you what's going on in Komadi. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] There has been no request from either the local authorities or the Ministry for the municipal landfill of Komád during its operation or since its recultivation. On the other hand, the authorities looked into the facts. On this basis, the real situation is as follows: in Komádi, the municipality operated the landfill until its closure nine years ago. Subsequently, according to the permit, the recultivation of the landfill took place in 2013. Recultivation works were not carried out by the municipality with the involvement of public workers, but by an economic organisation selected by tender, as the works were financed by the European Union. At present, post-care is ongoing for 30 years after the closure. In the meantime, plant cover in the recultivation plan should be provided. The municipality is, quite rightly, responsible for the care of lawn areas with the involvement of public workers. During the recultivation, a monitoring system was established in the vicinity of the landfill and no trace of hazardous waste could be detected. [[13.00]] With regard to the quality of drinking water supplied in the municipality, you are right, Mr President, due to the natural arsenic content above the limit, the supply of temporary drinking water has indeed been ordered from 2013. In order to protect the health of the population, the military provided water for the settlement. I stress, it's only temporary. In the meantime, the local waterworks have been modernised, and as a result of the investment, the quality of drinking water supplied in Komádi complies with the legislation in force. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-11-02-80	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I warmly welcome my fellow Members, and we will continue with the questions. Member István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, notary of the National Assembly, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question. It's an address. Congressman István Ikotity has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-11-02-81	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, From the outset, LMP has consistently expressed its view that the nationalisation of the school system is a serious mistake. The system before 2010 did not work effectively either, then all the responsibilities were passed on to the municipalities without providing adequate resources and assistance. But the answer to that was the creation of the KLIK, the complete centralization. From one side of the horse to the other, they pushed the bike from one extreme to the other extreme. According to the LMP, which is and is able to do so, it is necessary to return schools, of course, by providing resources, and who for some reason does not want or is not able to maintain them, to enter the state in some form. You've been promised to loosen up the system, eliminate the KLIK as a result of the educator protests. Turns out they're not telling the truth, and they're pushing the bike into a dead end, and they're taking away the right to operate from the settlements. Taking over the operation will, of course, cost money. According to the municipal associations, the cost is about HUF 100 billion. László Palkovics, on the other hand, recognizes only HUF 55 billion. The money is created with local government restrictions and is seen to be lost from the support of the settlements and, on the other hand, to be subject to a penalty tax, which is cynically called a solidarity contribution. The details of who's being punished have also been revealed. For example, Budaörs alone would pay HUF 2.3 billion, so they would collect 10% of the total penalty from a single settlement. But Százhalombatta is also being punished for almost 1 billion dollars; Veresegyház or Paks loses a significant part of their own budget because of the sarcasm. Dear Secretary of State, If they're doing a total nationalization, why doesn't the state give it all the resources? It's not enough to take away schools from settlements, even unjustly punish them? [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: You're right. A rare applause in the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP.]]
u2016-11-02-82	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-02-83	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In recent years, the government has been led by the possibility that every child in every settlement has a similar chance, an opportunity to acquire, learn, and thrive. On the one hand, your proposals, which you have just said here, contradict their other proposals concerning the future of children with a difficult fate, when they say that the child of a small settlement in East Hungary should start with the same chances as a child in Budaörs, where there is obviously a much higher income for business and other taxes in the settlement. So they also contradict themselves and contradict the interests of Hungarian children. I mean, what's important is that everyone gets the same chance and goes to a well-funded school. You would go on as a classic SZDSZ way to have children, who are very well-educated by the state, whose school is given a lot of money from tax revenues by the public sector, and someone who is poor because he was born for a small settlement, born for a poor settlement. But they wouldn't help them, they would leave them alone, and in 381 places, schools were abolished. [[István Ikotity constantly intervenes.]] We believe, on the other hand, that every child should have a similar chance, and if I look at your sentence, honourable Member, let me draw your attention to your contradiction. He says whoever asks has to be returned in addition to providing the resources. So in Hungarian, you say that the school and the state support move together. The State has previously provided the municipalities with the aid; now, obviously, the aid it has given to run the schools, the Klebelsberg Centre and the district of education to provide this resource. You also say that the municipality does not normally have a source for this, but they also give it to the school and to the source of operation. You see, this is the model represented by LMP, which failed in Hungary in exactly 20 years. Because there was such a system, but it did not prove in performance or economic sustainability that it was in Hungary's interest. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-02-84	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Nándor Gúr, representative of the MSZP, notary of the Parliament, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy a question:. Black employment in heaven? It's an address. Mr. Nándor Gúr has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-11-02-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. We all know that there are many employers and employers who do not announce their employees. These people, of course, will suffer all of this. We also know that in 2015 some HUF 20 billion of contributions were collected, and we also know that in the first half of 2016 this amounted to EUR 16 billion. We look forward to the end-of-the-year data, obviously it will exceed 20 billion. As a result, it appears that the labour code that you gave birth to in 2012 gives you virtually all the opportunities to make workers vulnerable on the one hand and, on the other hand, employers, if they can't skin them from anywhere else, will pull another skin off their employees. Interest representatives have become overweight, at least in their every move, and labour or labour protection organisations are integrated into district offices, government offices, are represented as one department, and are trying to corner them in practice. Well, in a word, it can be said that vulnerability increases due to failure to report. Obviously, a multitude of examples can be mentioned. In terms of pensions, social security, sick pay or even borrowing, these people are all more disadvantaged. You're not touched by a lot of workers, not even a little by their interests. It can be seen that the process that is being strengthened actually increases vulnerability. When are you going to create employment and safety conditions that are in the best interest of the people? When are you going to bring to life a labour market platform where people are not the victims, but the beneficiaries of the processes? When are you going to reduce this immeasurable black job that could generate economic benefits and benefit people? Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-11-02-86	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-02-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Contrary to what you have said, the existing labour law rules, as before, provide for obligations relating to the establishment and notification of employment. There is a strict ban on undeclared employment, and the sanctioning system for undeclared employment in the Labour Control Act remains unchanged. For years, the labour authority's control plans have identified the detection and reduction of undeclared employment as a priority. [[Nándor Gúr keeps interrupting.]] The number of labour authorities in recent years has indeed shown a downward trend, but since 2010, the employment conditions of more than 1 million workers have been examined by the Authority. However, the system and efficiency of labour inspections have increased at the same time. The increase in the effectiveness of controls is shown by the narrowing of scissors between the employers, workers and the number of employers and workers affected by the infringement. This means that a significant majority of labour inspections are targeted at jobs where workers' rights are effectively violated. Contrary to Mr President's conclusion, it is my view that the fact that the tax authority and the labour inspection staff are discovering more and more cases does not mean that the black economy is growing, but that the work of the tax administration and the employment office is improving. What you have said is true in your time, and the reason why there are such great numbers is because we are starting to put in place the employment policy that you have failed to do. [[Zoltán Grimlock: You don't really mean that, do you?]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-02-88	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources: When will the government settle the pay of the theatre workers? It's an address. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró has the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman. [[13.10]]
u2016-11-02-89	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The key players in the Hungarian cultural life are the workers of the theatres, our actors and all other workers from the mask master to the props, everyone who contributes to the success of the performances. In many cases, however, the financial recognition of their work, which is not free from physical dangers, has been delayed for many years. In the Hungarian actor society of approximately 1000-1200 people, a few dozen people can say that they have an action which the general public thinks is the income of all actors. However, the vast majority of actors and other theater workers have a net monthly income far below what the outside world assumes. Eleven years ago, an actor earned an average gross HUF 180,000, this amount was only HUF 195 thousand on average. It is a well-known saying that the actor is motivated by the love and fellowship of the audience, but this in itself is not enough in terms of livelihood. In addition to our actors, we need to deal with the situation of technical and technical theatre workers that provide the conditions for acting, perhaps even more difficult than the actors. Although without their efforts, the lectures would be unrealized, yet they work for very little pay, in many cases without protective equipment, much longer than those laid down in the relevant legislation. In essence, the vast majority of Hungarian theatre workers have not received a substantial increase in salaries for a decade, and some of them have to do so in extremely neglected and dangerous circumstances every day. I ask the Secretary of State when the government will settle the pay of the theatre workers I expect his reply to be worth. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-11-02-90	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. To answer the question, I ask the Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-02-91	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, The short answer to the Member's question could be 1 January 2017, as the wage increase will start on 1 January next year, which will also affect theatre workers, those involved in the cultural sphere. In recent years, everyone in Budapest and the countryside has seen that cultural life has been abundant in development and investment in infrastructure. Today, there are much more and much better quality institutions waiting for those who want to go to theatre and concerts. In terms of art festivals, we also tried to support meaningful festivals, especially rural festivals - 250 million forints were set aside for the first time. We will also increase this in next year's budget, precisely so that we can support these festivals and content not only from a tourist point of view, not only from a commercial point of view, but also from a cultural point of view. Next year's budget includes HUF 5.4 billion as a surplus to complement the staff of the cultural sector with a 15 per cent salary supplement. This will mean an increase in your salary in your bank account. This HUF 5.4 billion, as I said, is about 15 percent on average. The cultural sphere is very diverse, you know, among the maintainers are the Hungarian state itself, there are local governments, civil society organisations, in many cases companies or non-profit companies maintain cultural institutions, but we have calculated and calculated this increase to be an increased amount compared to the amount paid by the State Treasury as a cultural salary on 31 March, which is the amount increased by 15 percent. We hope that this means not only an increase for theatres but also for those working elsewhere in cultural institutions, but also a sign of appreciation for their work. That's the first step. I think it's important for everyone to see [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the government's serious intentions, and I trust that this will be followed further. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-02-92	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, head of the LMP Group, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question: It's an address. Ms. Erzsébet Schmuck, the leader of the group, has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-11-02-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The victims of asbestos pollution are dying in and around it, and the government is constantly backing away from liability and claims for damages, and the government's responsibility is clear. For years after the closure of the former asbestos cement plant, no safe disposal of carcinogenic hazardous asbestos waste was provided. Moreover, those affected who have had a serious disease that can be proven to be caused by asbestos, most often fatal in terms of its outcome, cannot expect any help from the State, and even in a court of law, it is very difficult to enforce compensation, because the government is stalling on time instead of finding a solution. Meanwhile, more and more of the victims of asbestos pollution are dying, making the situation more morally and legally unbearable for the government. In Hungary, the problem of asbestos previously widely used, but now banned because of its danger, remains unresolved. The government is irresponsible; its inaction in many lives costs billions in terms of the cost of healing sick people and the expected reimbursement. That's why I'm asking: when will the government prepare the asbestos cataster, which has been promised for years, containing asbestos-containing buildings in full? When will the previously interrupted asbestos removal programme continue? When will the government establish infrastructure conditions for the safe management of asbestos waste? I also ask: is the government ready to settle without delay, out of court, with the victims of asbestos pollution, or to continue with the time-consuming game we have seen so far, sacrificing lives to avoid having to take responsibility? Thank you in advance for your reply. [[Dr. István Józsa applauds.]]
u2016-11-02-94	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. The answer will be given by Secretary of State István Nagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-02-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Congresswoman, The government aims and is determined to improve the country's health care and improve the quality of life of people in our country. Every man's life is a treasure. In all cases, the determining environmental and occupational health authorities have taken the necessary measures. In your particular case, pollution and health hazard are also likely to be the result of an unauthorised or professional activity without authorisation. In October 2013, the general medical district of Zagyvaszántó and Lőrinci notified the health authority of the suspected accumulation of mesotelioma diseases and deaths. The Heves County Government Office immediately launched a medical examination, based on the announcement of general practitioners, based on which an epidemiological study was carried out by 31 January 2014. On 6 March 2014, the National Chief Officer set up a working group to evaluate the results of the study and to explore the background of the cases. On 25 June 2014, the Central Duna Valley Environmental and Natural Protection Inspectorate informed that, on the basis of the results of the sampling studies, it was demonstrated that asbestos-containing materials found among the building-resolution wastes were proven to be mixed with construction-resolution wastes. This was transported to the landfill in Castle Palace and to the hazardous waste dump in Galgamács until 21 October 2015. However, I would like to point out that the priority objectives of the portfolio are to ensure the proper disposal of asbestos waste, including waste generated in particular by the population and close to the place of residence, as well as the possibility of launching a national asbestos removal programme, such as: [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] As a first step, this year's amendment to the Waste Act does not require the payment of a landfill allowance for asbestos leaving the public during private constructions. Thank you for asking. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-02-96	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Anita Heringes, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice a question:. Is it acceptable in this form? It's an address. Congresswoman Anita Beringes has the floor, please.
u2016-11-02-97	Thank you very much for the floor. I'm going to come to you with a problem for my host hour. Dear Secretary of State, Mr Répássy, on the proposal of the former Secretary of State, I am now asking you and the majority in the form of a question. I presented a proposal for a decision on an important subject at the spring session, which was not included in the series of subjects by the Judicial Committee. Róbert Répássy did not support my suggestion because of the form of the decision proposal. I have now chosen the form of the oral question, in accordance with your proposal, my right to represent it, in case we give the child a different dress, then you can support it. [[13.20]] By decree, the government provided financial compensation to persons who were taken to the Soviet Union after 1 October 1944 for forced labour. The Government's decree makes the data subject's entitlement subject to a limitation of one year or more. In the case of a surviving spouse, entitlement shall not be based on a period of one year; in order for the surviving spouse to receive compensation, it is necessary that the period of limitation of the deceased's rightholder reaches three years. This distinction is not fair with regard to surviving spouses entitled to compensation. Especially when, according to the regulation, compensation is only HUF 20,000 in the case of deprivation of liberty exceeding three years. My question, Mr. Secretary of State, is whether the Government wishes to resolve this unworthy situation. We have one request - since it does not affect many people, and it really is only about humanity - so let us take the step to give these people the same care. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-02-98	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be given by State Secretary Pál Völner. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-02-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, The compensation, including the benefits for those who have been deprived of leave for a long period of time, is fixed at 267/2000. Government Decree No. 1 is a defined benefit and an ex-gratia benefit of a social nature, for which no one has a constitutional right as a subject. This has been confirmed by the Constitutional Court in its decision that anyone can rely on such violations, but compensation may, of course, be limited by the presence of material barriers due to ex-gratia nature. The Constitutional Court also pointed out that there is no constitutional obligation for the legislator, that there is a wide discretion, and that the circle of persons was precisely defined by the legislator. The amendment of the Fundamental Law of Hungary entered into force on 1 April 2013 before 2 May 2013 pursuant to Article U) (9), a new claim for compensation for damage caused by damage caused by the State unfairly to their property, which was unlawfully deprived of their lives or freedom, cannot be established by law. Thus, there is no possibility of amending legislation for surviving spouses of deceased persons mentioned in the question. By the way, these benefits were frozen by the MSZP Government in 2008 [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] So it's interesting to ask this kind of question. I would also like to mention that the last requests for benefits under this legislation could be made on 15 March, and on other compensations by 30 March 2012, and that failure to comply with these deadlines resulted in a loss of rights. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-02-100	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Gergely Farkas, Group Director, Jobbik's representative, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources: Why does the government not support the necessary college developments? It's an address. Congressman Gergely Farkas has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-11-02-101	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Jobbik has already pointed out on several occasions the serious problem with higher education that there is an average over-subsidisation of 30-40 percent in colleges in universities and colleges, but the government is not planning to expand its capacity. This is also extremely worrying because the lack of dorm accommodation is a threat to young people's higher education studies. In many cases, young people cannot start or continue their higher education because the more expensive apartments are almost priceless to them. Unfortunately, a few hundred new seats per year are small, since a large number of young people face serious housing problems. HÖOK's research on dormitory housing, published at the beginning of the year, also notes that in the last year there has been no financial expenditure in the case of maintenance or improvement in more than half of the colleges. With this research in mind, it becomes clear that, in addition to increasing the capacity of colleges, particular attention should be paid to the state of existing college buildings, as this can greatly contribute to the preference of colleges over other housing opportunities. Dear Secretary of State, The recent interview with your minister shows that Zoltán Balog and Minister János Lázár agree with our position and initiative, as they have sent a consensus to the government on the issue of the development of university colleges. However, according to the interview, Viktor Orbán did not take this into account and rejected it. Unfortunately, this situation, willfully and unwittingly, gives people the feeling that if Viktor doesn't allow it, nothing can happen. On this basis, the question arises: in spite of the housing crisis caused by skyrocketing rent prices, why has the development of colleges not been properly supported in recent years? When is it finally expected that large-scale college development in the interests of young people will be on the agenda? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-02-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-02-103	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It was interesting that at the beginning of the two minutes, you said that the government was not planning dorm building, and then you spoke about the plans that you know the government is planning, and then you said that you were not planning; so far away from reality, I think you couldn't make a statement about the government's college building strategy. However, it was also important what he said in his title, perhaps the Member, so the necessary college developments. After all, you know that our governance had to spend its first years in the field of higher education - and obviously it still has accounts - to settle the situation of colleges built in the previous period as PPP investments, or any other investment that the government did not pay at the time, but to issue a subsequent quasi-debt certificate to subsequent governments, and in many cases not to build a college where the number of students actually increased. But in addition to settling these issues, we consider it important that there should be new colleges, developments, modernisation of old buildings, construction of new buildings, construction of buildings that could even be a place for college students with families, so the establishment of higher-quality, larger-square-square-metre dormitory rooms. We use not only HÖOK's study, but also many other studies or preparatory documents. Obviously, the HÖOK, which you referred to, is also important, we know this, and in the design of the documents that the government has already discussed and will obviously discuss at the forthcoming government meetings, we will take it into account and you will see, too, the honourable Member. [[Gergely Farkas: You haven't done anything in six years!]] that if Jobbik is truly committed to launching a comprehensive and necessary college development programme in Hungary, then it will also have the opportunity to vote for it here in Parliament. I am curious to see if Jobbik will change his position in the same way as he dances left and right in the area of constitutional amendment, or dares to take his current position, and supports the government's proposals in this regard. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Not in this style!]] Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-02-104	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, It's 13:27, which brings us to the end of the questioning period, and now we're moving to immediate questioning. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Bárándy, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question entitled "Friends, friends and others." Congressman Gergely Bárándy has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-02-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Mr. Suede, In previous acts of the Matolcsy-saga, many of us have asked you how you filled your family's pockets with public money. How Cousin companies and relatives received hundreds of millions of dollars of money from central banks. He doesn't like it, he doesn't like it, he doesn't like it, he doesn't like it. We've already had the family. Let's get on with our buddies. What do you think you're doing living in a bank manager's apartment? Doesn't it bother you that you live in a man's apartment - or lived in - someone you should check on? Don't you think, Mr. Matolcsy, this is the high school of corruption? It's the most classic case of corruption, it's an example of school, when you accept something from someone you have the right to decide. The traffic officer from the driver, the construction worker from the contractor, possibly the number one bank supervisor from the bank manager, named Matolcsy Patai. I don't ask if it's true that he lived there, because if he hasn't been denied the fact for weeks, it's obviously true; I suggest he doesn't try to deny it, because in the end he'll end up putting a few photos of Antal Rogán in a lie, like the helicopter guys or maybe a hotel employee. But I'd like to ask, did you pay rent for Patai or was he a favor house user? What does your personal relationship have to do with the fact that the MNB, according to experts, bought the Eiffel Palace for one and a half times the market price, with which Patai's bank, UniCredit, won a great deal? What are the benefits of UniCredit since you've been living in your manager's apartment? And then, according to the press, he hires his mistress for high pay at the central bank and his foundations. Can't you afford your $5 million salary, Mr. President? How do you think the news says you're paying your girlfriend a million-dollar public money? Is it true that a yoga instructor gets 600,000 forints for research in India just because she's your girlfriend? [[13.30]] When you're a professor, you've been dealing with this subject for decades, you don't make that much money, and he's really good at it. Don't you think it's a bit of a bit of a problem as a conservative politician, Mr. President? [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] When will you stop running amok, Mr. Matolcsy? When are you gonna resign? Thank you very much.
u2016-11-02-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. I respectfully draw your attention to the fact that your address was inappropriate. Mr President, Mr President, his address. I give the floor to President György Matolcsy. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2016-11-02-107	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Well, the bluff sequence continues: what you said from mid-August 2014, a very well-built bluff indictment. Let's start with what a gentleman named Róna, who has received all the papers, took over by you, your party, the Balliberian parties of the opposition parties, and the accusation was this: why did the Hungarian National Bank buy a violin? The conviction campaign went on for weeks. [[Cries from the lines of the MSZP, including: Answer the question! The president's ringing the bell.]] "You have told us everything, and it has turned out what we knew from the beginning that the Hungarian National Bank did not buy a violin; although it could have bought it, because the Austrian central bank had eight Stradivari violins, for example. Similar thing happened in 2015-16. You have told me, for example, you, Congressman, your party, that my cousin is 600 million forints, horribile dictu, fantastic [[Dr. László Kács: It's not money for you!]] The Hungarian National Bank received HUF 600 million from the Foundations of the Central Bank. After months of bluffing in the indictment, it turned out that Tamás Szemerey had not received a single penny in support of the vs.hu news portal, but you claimed that he had received it, and then did not say a single word of apology. In the same way, in the light of an air statement from a newspaper called "Bulvárszabi" which has since ceased to exist, you have claimed that I live somewhere, which may be the property of Mr. Patai. The statement received from the same air, as it turned out from the public interest data issue, is my permanent address: 8172 Balatonakarattya, Közép út 26. Thank you very much, Congressman. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zoltán Grimlock: Why don't we meet? Crying from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-11-02-108	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Fellow Members! Calm down! Congressman Gergely Bárándy now has the opportunity for a one-minute rejoinder.
u2016-11-02-109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, that was very weak. Many people have a different permanent address than where they live, Mr. President; I guess I won't tell you anything new. So, as usual, I didn't get an answer from you. So the thing is, Mr President, you and your boss and some of your accomplices are a XXI. A centuries-old dictatorship was established here in Hungary, once again establishing the party state and the cult of the great wise leader after 20 years. And they think they can afford anything, and with meaningless, cynical answers, they can handle criticism. You know what, Mr. President? They are right at the moment: this is also the nature of a dictatorship. The Attorney General, who is also part of the system and is also a beneficiary of it, will not arrest his wife's boss. But it won't always be that way, Mr. President. All dictatorships fall once, and their leaders end up either in prison or in a moral dump and a wall of shame. In any case, if you don't want unpleasant moments, don't let your precious Venetian mirror invest in your dirty billions. And if you please, Mr. President, if you've already filed a lawsuit against me. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] I'd like you to come to the courthouse next time. Thank you very much. [[Dr. István Józsa: That's right!]]
u2016-11-02-110	Thank you very much. President György Matolcsy is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2016-11-02-111	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Well, that's why I won't even tell you my current location. [[Deterioration in opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] because your bluffs show up all over the place. [[Dr. István Józsa: Garbage Hill!]] that they are constantly acting on each issue according to the attack scenario you have built. [[Where are your letters going, Mr. President?]] So once again, this is not an invitation, Congressman, we are following you, the invitation is another thing: 8172 Balatonkarattya, 26 Republic Road, and there is no invitation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zoltán Grimlock: I shouldn't have said that, all the journalists will be there tomorrow!]]
u2016-11-02-112	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Fellow Members! Now... [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: The problem is that you didn't answer!]] Congressman, you'll ask me one more time, and then you can tell me you didn't get an answer. You have to stop now, because from here on out, there's no more. Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr. János Volner, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: why is the government opposed to raising the Hungarian people's wages? It's an address. Mr Fraction Manager, I would like to inform you that the Prime Minister has appointed Mr Mihály Varga, Minister for Economic Affairs, to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask you whether you will accept the Minister as a reply or ask the Prime Minister personally for an answer.
u2016-11-02-113	I'll wait for the Prime Minister, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-02-114	Mr. Team Leader, thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Mr László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "Protection money in health. It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to the urgent public task. I respectfully ask, Congressman, whether you will accept the person who is responding. [[On the sign of Dr. László György Lukács:]] The Member indicates that he will accept Mr Bence Rétvári as a reply. Congressman László György Lukács has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-11-02-115	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Newly, the common language calls the money that the patients give or accept for better care. This protection money is a daily corruption of health care, commonly known as gratitude money. Perhaps it is now well - known, since it has been revealed from the research on gratuity money that it has long been given by patients not out of gratitude but out of vulnerability, and we hope that fewer and fewer doctors will accept it. Such protection money, i.e. gratuity money, has serious rejection, 90 percent of doctors and patients alike are completely negative about the phenomenon, and this is also included in the statement, and it is also humiliating for both parties. The aim can therefore be nothing other than to eliminate it completely, and it must be discussed how and when. In particular, it would be important to liquidate the gratuity money, since this is no longer thanks to help, but, according to its current operation, is one of the remnants of socialism living with us. Unlike the government, Jobbik does not want the gratitude money to fade out of the system, waiting for many years or decades, Jobbik intends to eliminate it in a short time. Of course, few people take the liberty of talking about gratuity money and say that action must be taken, even though, if we look into it, doctors and patients reject it, most of them find it humiliating. Then why can't we just say that it has to be abolished? And termination can't hang in the air. Thus, the first step to abolish, with several conditions being met, would be, for example, a much more serious wage increase, the complete elimination of hospital debts or the complete elimination of medical fief conditions, so an extra step would be to set a real and accurate, finite deadline. In view of all this, I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether the government is planning to abolish the gratuity money. When can the medical defense money be permanently cut off? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-02-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-02-117	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I was curious about the tools that Jobbik would list in order to eliminate the gratuity money in Hungary, since Jobbik rarely says the tools. By not having any gratitude money, we all agree that there is no such person in Hungary - there is no need to do a public opinion poll, honourable Member. Everyone wants no gratuity money, doctors to receive an official, higher wage, which is appropriate to their work, which also expresses appreciation, and besides, patients should not be given such gratuity money in envelopes, so and so to the doctors. We know that this is a very old legacy of Hungary, unfortunately, in the '50s the period of giving thanks money began, and unfortunately it did not stop after the change of regime. But on the basis of what you have said, honourable Member, what means can be used to fight gratuity money, we can say that Jobbik is kullogging after the government, because it repeats proposals that have already been put on the table in Parliament, it has been possible to vote on them. Jobbik did not support them there, as it did not support next year's budget, in which we increase the wages for doctors by HUF 107 thousand. But you will also have the opportunity to vote on the 2018 wage increase, which means another 100 thousand forints. We are curious to see what Jobbik will vote for, even if you press the "no" button or dare to take the liberty and press "yes." Just like they said no to this year's 26,5 percent wage increase for health care workers, or for next year's 12 percent and the next 8 and 8 percent wage increases, we'll see what Jobbik decides. [[13.40]] But we also saw that in 2012-13, when we had already made a 26 percent wage increase, Jobbik also did not support it. But we can say proudly, I think, because it also commends the merit of health care workers, that the HUF 500 billion health development that has been achieved in health care has, in turn, created more humane and advanced, real modern conditions for healing in most rural hospitals, and we hope that this will continue in Budapest in the super hospital. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-02-118	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman László György Lukács. Here you go.
u2016-11-02-119	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We're still no closer to a solution. And it shows well what you said, Mr. Secretary, that in this case too - because in this case the issue of salaries and hospital debts has not been fully resolved - the government is playing to the wear-out of gratitude money, i.e. to disappear for many years or decades. Compared to this, it would be much more important for all of us to set a date at which time we could keep the conditions that could be a serious increase in wages, which could be the elimination of the debt-cleaning and fiefal system. Together with these three, or by setting the date, it would be possible to compete effectively and to fight gratuity money. The Jobbik for Hungary Movement believes that allies are needed to fight gratuity money. The position is clear: the majority of the people are allies in this, the majority of the patients are allies in this direction, the majority of the government, the measures, the majority of the doctors can all be allies, but only effective steps must be taken in this direction. A date has to be set, Mr. Secretary, or it will take decades. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-02-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2016-11-02-121	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It would be good if Jobbik could do what the opposition can now, at least do to improve the state of hospitals and not to wear out the gratuity money, but to make it unnecessary. For example, you say that the government has done nothing to curb hospital debt. Nothing is HUF 225.5 billion. So it's nothing to you. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. Zoltán Grumpy: I've got thousands of them towed!]] You don't get a salary increase of 207,000 forints a month. You have nothing to do with doubling the wages of nurses. And since there is nothing of this 207,000 forints, nothing of a hundred percent wage increase under the age of eight, nothing of 225 billion forints hospital debt consolidation, you do not support this nothing here in Parliament. They've never supported it before, and I don't think they're gonna support it anymore. But you, honourable Member, or at least you didn't raise protection money in health care, but intermediary money. You know very well that he started a family business to send Hungarian doctors abroad. That was your answer to the gratuity money to go to work abroad. And our answer is to make twice as much. You can choose from the solution of Jobbik or Fidesz-KDNP. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-02-122	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, the leader of the LMP Group, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. When does the government realize that the direction is wrong? It's called the "I." The Prime Minister has appointed Minister Mihály Varga to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask Madam Group leader whether she accepts the person of the responding party or waits for the Prime Minister to be present in the Parliamentary Chamber. Here you go.
u2016-11-02-123	Thank you very much. I'll wait for Prime Minister's presence.
u2016-11-02-124	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Member István Ikotity, representative of the Group of the LMP, the notary of the Parliament, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office an immediate question: Why does János Lázár want to introduce the admission to high school? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Nándor Csepreghy as State Secretary for his reply in response to an urgent public mission. [[Ikotity István nodds.]] I do not have to ask whether the Member accepts the person who is responding because he signals to me. So the answer will be given by Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy. And István Ikotity, the notary of Parliament, has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-11-02-125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Minister János Lázár spoke on one of the last government briefings about the requirement to apply for admission to high school in the new national basic curriculum as of 2018. That would virtually reduce the number of high school seats. What they had not dared to do directly because of the protests, they could now go through with such a method if John Lazarus's position prevails within the government. Today, four out of ten high school students in high school - they seem to think that's a lot. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: There's an audition right now! Wrong question.]] However, according to the LMP, this would be a serious mistake, which would make the potential for social ascent even deeper, even more narrower, in our education system. We do not want to see them hit schools after the debauchery of vocational training and take away the possibility of obtaining a high level of general education from the tens of thousands of students, limiting their subsequent further education. Why do they want to do that? We don't understand why we need all this. There's no problem with high school as a system. Although John Lazarus said that it is not good for high school to produce unemployed people, it is not so. If we look at the unemployment stats, we see that the second lowest rate of high school graduates after higher education. Most of the high school students go to college, but for some reason, those who don't go to college can also be placed, at least according to the data. Dear House, The introduction of high school admission would further undermine the quality of Hungarian secondary education. The LMP strongly opposes such a measure. We know the position of John Lazarus in this matter. But what is the government's position, whether they will step away from reintroducing high school admissions, restrict entry into high schools, reduce the number of high school students? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-11-02-126	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. I give the floor to Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-02-127	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much, on the one hand, for the suggestion that we can talk about this important issue. I believe that there is agreement on both the government side and the opposition that there is no competitive country without a competitive education system. Therefore, as a maintainer, the state must indeed rethink the entire education system, which also concerns public education, vocational training and the higher education system. Basically, I also think that the lie that has been living with us for decades has to be dealt with, which says that a diploma in a person's pocket is essentially a life insurance policy, or, if you like, a salary insurance for the period between receiving a diploma and receiving a first pension. We have also discussed in other forums what new types of challenges the development of technology poses for workers, and I think that this is not only raised on the issue of the Hungarian education system, but many states are dealing with these issues, which is an excellent opportunity for the opposition to really try to take a stand on this issue, not with regard to the political relationship with the government, but also with reason. The Hungarian state's position in this case and the government's debates are about whether it is right that in a system without admission the student will only face the fact that the knowledge he possesses may not be sufficient to participate in and out of a higher education system with a marketable knowledge to fill a good job when it is too late to change it. If the admission system works, you can receive it as a feedback from the primary educational institution, and indeed you can have a vocational training that is not at all lower than the level of education existing for a degree, since today we see that, even in terms of wage conditions, in terms of quality of life, a skilled worker with good vocational training can often have better or better financial conditions than a graduate. I therefore believe that the introduction of this state control in the system can improve the ability to have much more satisfied and truly marketable students in Hungary. [[It's a rare applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-02-128	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. For a one-minute rejoinder, István Ikotity, notary. Here you go.
u2016-11-02-129	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, If you look at unemployment statistics, you see that only 1.9 percent of those with university degrees are unemployed. That's the lowest number. So there is no need to fear that there will be as many college students as possible, and this increases unemployment, which I feel you referred to. With regard to high schools, he said that the problem here, as Minister said, is that they enter high schools with 2s and 3s. I think this might happen, but it should be examined whether these are exceptional cases, or this is the general one. I think these are outstanding cases. In fact, Minister, I quote that the system deserves a review. Now, if something deserves a review, shouldn't that be the first thing to do? Shouldn't we ask questions first and then shoot? Because you declare that this mandatory admission will be introduced from 2018, while the solution to the problem that you have raised is to increase the quality of primary school education, not to close a gate. [[13.50]]
u2016-11-02-130	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-02-131	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Indeed, he is right in saying that 1.9 percent of graduates are those who cannot get a job, but if you look at the statistics that they are actually located at a workplace that they can fill according to their qualifications, you will find far worse statistics. We believe that a fully reformed education system is needed, and this is where there is a very serious intellectual debate within the government about what means it has. We believe that the introduction of compulsory admissions will allow a child, a parent, to receive real feedback and meaningful feedback once the primary educational institution has been completed, whether the child should go further into high school education and thus in a higher education direction, or into a vocational training system that provides good and stable existence. And there's no other aspect here than the knowledge of a child. And the government must operate a system that, regardless of the background of a child, gives it the opportunity to guarantee the financial background of its studies. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-02-132	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman György Balla, Group Director of the Fidesz Group, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office an immediate question to the Minister of Foreign Affairs:, How many Snowy Sofias can there be in the MSZP? It's an address. Minister has appointed Mr Csaba Dömötör State Secretary for his response to an urgent public mission. [[For signal:]] I don't have to go through with my text, because Mr. Group Director indicates that he accepts Mr.Csaba Dömötör as a State Secretary. György Balla's faction director has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-11-02-133	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian left has had difficult days. Well, it wasn't difficult for them, they only gave their point; it was hard for the good people to bear what they had done. [[Dr. László Kács: Sit down! The president's ringing the bell.]] It began with the deployment of a narrow extremist left group to disturb the commemoration on 23 October. They were sent there to disturb the dignity of tens of thousands of people. [[Zoltán Grimlock: You beat them good.]] They obviously provoked me, obviously wanted trouble. The fact that it didn't succeed in the end doesn't take anything away from the instigator's instigation. During the same period, the socialists were spectacularly kissing Ferenc Gyurcsány on a stage together. [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP, including Zoltán Gőgös: Na, na!]] Ferenc Gyurcsány, who is clearly moral and political responsible for everything that happened ten years ago. [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP, including Zoltán Gőgös: He is responsible for Orbán and Fidesz!]] He's clearly responsible for the eyeballs, the cavalry, everything. And the same socialists were there at that time, but at that festive meeting, when the president of the Polish Seymour, the president of the German Bundesrat, bowed his head to the Hungarian heroes, well, to this meeting, they refused to come. [[Zoltán Grimlock: We were condescending.]] For them, Hungarian heroes count for nothing. We didn't think it was any lower than that. [[Zoltán Grimlock: You tell me?!]] Yes, there is. Their highly respected fellow politician, Sofia Havas, was able to say the following, unfortunately I have to quote it literally. [[Do you know Russian or something? Deficiencies, noise in MSZP and Jobbik so.rai. The president's ringing the bell.]] According to Snowy Sofia, the Nazi-organized Fascist counterrevolutionary coup is the 56 horthysta provocation. Snow Sofia is currently a member of your party. [[Dr. István Józsa's intervention.]] I would like to know how many Snowy Sofias there are in the Hungarian Socialist Party. I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-02-134	Congressman Józsa! Congressman, you didn't ask us, we don't expect an answer from you, so be quiet now so I don't have to send you out. [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP, including Zoltán Gőgös: This was supposed to be from us.]] The answer will be heard from Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör. Here you go. [[Who shot the policeman, Mr. Secretary of State?]]
u2016-11-02-135	Thank you, Mr. President. I can't tell you how many Snowy Sofias are still in the ranks of the MSZP, but one sure, the 60th anniversary of 1956 would have been an excellent opportunity for the left to finally clarify his relationship between 23 October and 1956. [[The intervention of Zoltán Haughty.]] Unfortunately, it didn't. This year, the socialists have indeed behaved shamefully, individually and collectively. Let us begin by saying that Tibor Szanyi, who is supposed to represent us in the European Parliament, in the European Union, does not know under what influence, but stated that he cannot call 23 October a national holiday. Then came Sophia Snow, who simply Nazid the heroes of the war of freedom; let us say quietly that this is not the first time she has done so. We've done this before. A few years ago, a member of a party called SZDSZ had to ask for this. [[Zoltán Haughty: But they killed his father, old man!]] You wouldn't think you'd ever agree with the SDS or its predecessor, but here's the thing. The MSZP as a party has not done anything to make up for these shameful statements. [[How do you know that? Are you listening to us already?]] They did not sign the joint statement calling for a joint celebration, and as the only party they did not attend the joint holiday session of the Parliament, when the German Speaker, when the Polish Speaker praised the heroes of 1956 here, in these benches where you are sitting, no one sat. [[Zoltán Gőgös: We were wreathing at Imre Nagy Square.]] This attitude, I think, is unworthy not only of something that sees itself as a democratic party, but also of the heroes of the war of freedom. No wonder during the celebrations on October 23rd, he couldn't afford more than a few dozen whistles, and that he called on radical left-wing believers to destroy state celebrations. There's no other word for that but shame. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-02-136	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from the faction director. Here you go.
u2016-11-02-137	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I think we need to make it clear that the socialists are clearly exposed. They lied to the Hungarians for 25 years. They still consider it a counter-revolution, and agree with Snowy Sofia. [[Don't you have a fever, old man? What have you been drinking?]] Today, they think that fascist hordes have devastated Hungary. You can yell, Congressman Haughty, but give me another explanation of why Snow Sofia might still be a member of you. [[The intervention of Zoltán Haughty.]] I just want to remind you that a few weeks ago, about three weeks ago, they had a municipal representative who didn't agree with you, but 98 percent of the people. [[Zoltán Grimlock: You didn't rule out the cement killer.]] And he said...
u2016-11-02-138	Congressman Haughty!
u2016-11-02-139	...that he would like to go and vote no, by the way. Within three days, Congressman, within three days, you were given party discipline and your party membership was suspended. Nothing like that happens to Snowy Sofia. [[How do you know?]] Why? Because you disagreed with the municipal representative, and you agree with Snowy Sofia. Shame on you! They're the same as they were, they haven't changed a bit. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-02-140	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Director. Before I give the floor to Mr Secretary of State, Congressman Haughty, you're lucky my monitor keeps covering you up. [[Defiance.]] 'Cause I would've given you a warning a long time ago, which I'm about to do. [[Zoltán Haughty: He needs some medicine!]] And I would like to draw your attention to the relevant regulations of the house; Congressman, do not make me send you out. Thank you. Answer me, Mr. Csaba Dömötör State Secretary. Here you go.
u2016-11-02-141	I can't tell you why Congressman Haughty is getting his blood pressure up. [[Zoltán Gőgös: He didn't go up, but there was so much left.]] But I think, and let me think further about what was said earlier, that the attitude of the MSZP is also outrageous because ten years ago, on the 50th anniversary, a holiday has already been ruined. [[György Balla: That's right.]] The 50th anniversary comes to mind not the dignified commemoration, but brutal violence, tear gas, vipers, and rubber bullets. [[Dr. István Józsa: And how good that was for you!]] I would also like to remind you, Congressman Haughty, that some 200 people were injured ten years ago, and 16 people were seriously injured by rubber bullets. Indeed, this anniversary would have been an important opportunity to make this right. On this anniversary, the socialists could have proved to them that there were thousands of people who gave their lives the most important, for Hungarian freedom. [[Zoltán Haughty: Imre Nagy, among them.]] However, this year did not succeed. However, we, being optimistic, do not give up hope and trust that the MSZP will eventually be able to act as non-communist successor parties and celebrate the heroes of 1956 in a worthy manner. Thank you. [[Intercoms on both sides. The president's ringing the bell. Zoltán Grimlock: You don't want that much! György Balla: Let's not be so naive. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-02-142	[[Speaking to Zoltán Grimlock:]] Looks like you're not getting away with this. I'm warning you again. Congressman, I don't have any more warnings from here, so I'm going to be fined. Member László Szakács, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question:. on the occasion of the World Savings Day. Congressman László Cook has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-11-02-143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, On World Saving Day, we looked at what the Hungarians had done, how they had been able to save money in the past period; we have seen a number of decisions. There were times when Hungarians put their money in private pension funds, thinking about old age, thinking that they would not always have jobs, but would be able to live better with a little supplement in addition to retirement. You nationalized this. Then, some people chose a different form of savings, took it to banks, brokerage companies. You have decided that you do not have to take special care of these, that the Hungarian National Bank can be incorporated into the State Supervisory Board of Financial Institutions and that they will take care of the investments of Hungarians. That didn't work either. At the beginning of last year, he managed to bury three financial service providers in January, February and March: DRB in January, Buda-Cash in February and Quaestor in March. [[14.00]] Hundreds of billions of forints disappeared, leaving tens of thousands of victims. In spite of all this, and in addition, there was still a decision that you were making to help the foreign exchange victims, the foreign exchange taxpayers, beg for it. Since then, it is true that the Hungarian National Bank has generated some HUF 140-150 billion in profits, but they still have a desperate situation. You are not raising Hungarians to save money, you are educating Hungarians on the exact financial culture to live for today, just as you and you are doing - you are wasting it. I think this is your main character, this kind of waste. Let's face it, if there is no such value-creating work, then there is no efficiency, because this kind of performance has been rewarded with wage increases - about 66 percent higher wages in the MNB than in the market - and at least with [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] That a billion can be traveled away. Please, how much longer is this gonna take? Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-11-02-144	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to President György Matolcsy. Here you go, Mr. President. You have the floor.
u2016-11-02-145	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Private pension fund: we really ended a big robbery, 3000 billion forints were taken out [[Dr. István Józsa: Kidnapped!]] the private pension fund system introduced from the budget of the Hungarian State on 1 January 1998, which everyone has now considered remotely that it was a very big mistake to introduce. We have eliminated this correctly. You blame it on us as a mistake, and the Hungarian National Bank, the Central Bank, operates in the bosom of financial supervisors. [[Dr. István Józsa: You said it wrong!]] The SZAF - the SZAF! - did not find, for example, the three fraudulent criminal groups who took hundreds of billions of forints from those who saved. This was in the first three months of 2015, not this year, and instead of PSZF, the Hungarian National Bank exposed the 15-year series of fraud in 15 months. [[Dr. László Kács: At least that's what he said.]] I think this proves more than anything that it was the right decision to merge state financial supervision into the Hungarian National Bank. You also bring up the situation of those in debt in Swiss francs. Well, there's a feat on the Hungarian government's account. [[Noise and clarity from the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP. Adam Mirkóczki: Great feat! Dr. László Kács: You've calmed people down! Ádám Mirkóczki: I'd be happy to give you my forinted credit.]] which was assisted by the Hungarian National Bank with its own instruments. A thousand billion forints! We gave the Hungarian savers a thousand billion forints by directing Swiss franck loans. [[Moore from the ranks of the MSZP.]] The Magyar Nemzeti Bank also has payments that accurately reflect the excellent work done in the Hungarian National Bank. [[Moore from the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP. Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP, including: Congratulations!]] Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-11-02-146	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A one-minute rejoinder is the word of Congressman László Szakács. Here you go.
u2016-11-02-147	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, You didn't expose anything. [[Adam Mirkóczki: They took the money.]] In front of you, László Windisch told us here, at the meeting of the Economic Commission on 10 March that they were already outside the Quaestor yesterday. Csaba Tarsoly says the same thing, that the Hungarian National Bank was already out in Quaestor on 9 March, and there was a list that said that, in front of you, the last 6.5 billion HUF was delivered to the Quaestor. Is that list true, Mr. President? Was that list made for you, or was that list made for someone else? Who made that list? I think that these questions need to be answered, because if that list is true by accident, and the MNB didn't know about it first, then that's the problem; if the MNB knew about it and left it, then I think it's even worse, because then you let them break this company down, leaving 32 thousand victims behind. Because of the shortness of time, I can't respond to the rest. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-11-02-148	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. President. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2016-11-02-149	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Explore 15 years in 15 months, that's the result. [[Dr. László Kács: Come on!]] 32,000 victims have been tricked, robbed during a government and PST operation that you certainly know more about than I do. Well, Congressman, all investigations are correct. We need to find out who was behind the big robbery, where the money went. [[Zoltán Gőgös: The house of Szijjártó! Dr. László Kács: You have to read the paper!]] And what's left of the money has to be paid to the victims. Therefore, I am extremely pleased that the Hungarian Parliament has launched a separate inquiry. [[Dr. László Kács: That committee hasn't met in two years!]] I hope very much that we will find out who moved this 15-year-old scam, who profited from it and where the money went. [[Applause from the pro-government benches. Dr. László Kács: That committee hasn't met in two years!]]
u2016-11-02-150	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Mr. Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How long will the agony last on the side of the road? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister for Economic Affairs Mihály Varga to respond to an urgent public task. [[For signal:]] The congressman indicates that he accepts the person who is responding. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-11-02-151	Mr President, Dear House, This weekend, I was in Kispest again with a family due to eviction. Their family, their contract is one out of 140,000 for those who have been unable to complete for 90 days or not fully...
u2016-11-02-152	Congressman, I'm sorry to interrupt, your microphone is very bad. I'm gonna need you to take a hand mike over there, and we're gonna start over the time when the hand mike is available. [[It's happening.]] Here you go.
u2016-11-02-153	Mr President, Dear House, Over the weekend, I was once again in Kispest with a family of foreign exchange credit-damaged people who were about to be evicted. Their contract is one of the 140,000 who can't or can't complete it, and in part, without their own fault, they're in an unworthy situation that's untenable. Meanwhile, the National Asset Manager's framework is almost complete, with only 500 seats available, if you can believe the press. I would be very interested to hear the Minister's reply as to when and how they intend to separate the few billion forints, from which at least the national asset manager's framework numbers, which can be treated as a truncated solution, can be expanded. You can see that other money would be available. If we only used a hundred billion-dollar amount of money in their settlement bond business, such as the partial settlement of the credit-damaged ones, we could achieve measurable, long-term progress. On the other hand, they do not seem to be planning to take out the fraudulent bond business. I would be interested in the Minister's personal opinion that, if he had already made conditional on the possibility of reviewing this bond arrangement - I stress, not the possibility of having it removed, but the possibility of reviewing it - what is the opinion of the Minister that today, on the basis of the material distributed at the meeting of the Economic Committee one minute before the vote, a company registered in Cyprus, supposedly having an offshore background, extended the scope of its activities to the territory of Seychelles in connection with settlement bonds. So, not only has it not introduced the fraudulent scheme to make dirty money, but it has extended the activity of the company registered in Cyprus to the territory of Seychelles. For what reason did they do this? On what grounds did they do this? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-02-154	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I said, will be given by Minister of Economy Mihály Varga. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-11-02-155	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, I'm struggling with the abundance of your questions because you've brought up so many things here that it's obviously impossible to answer in two minutes, but let me make a few comments. My first comment concerns foreign exchange loans. You are a little underestimating what the Hungarian people and the government have achieved together over the last six years, as there has been a very serious transformation in Hungary. I would remind you that almost 2.1 million loan contracts and claims have been affected by this process, 1.9 million foreign exchange-based contracts have been cleared, and I believe that this was, in any case, a very serious achievement in terms of the scale of the transformation, both in Central Europe and even in Europe. [[14.10]] I would remind you only here that the amount charged unfairly was HUF 734 billion at the level of the entire financial intermediary system, and at that time I did not mention the agreement that meant the fixed exchange rate at the beginning of 2015, where people were able to be freed from HUF 341 billion of debt. So this is a very serious process, which is obviously not over, because, as you said, there are people who can't pay their loans. I fear that, in terms of scale, we are getting to the circle that cannot pay, because they took out loans in the past without the ability to repay these loans. As regards the settlement policy, honourable Member, I would remind you that the Prime Minister himself has announced that this will be reviewed. On the weekend, another credit rating agency will make a decision on Hungarian long-term loans. I think that, obviously, the government will also look at what kind of government debt management is needed, and part of that is what you said, by the way, how we want it. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] to deal with the establishment obligation in the future. I'd like to discuss this separately for the rest of the minute. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-02-156	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpát. Here you go.
u2016-11-02-157	Mr President, Dear House, Before you believe the fairy tale of Mr Matolcsy, Minister, I would remind you of the Romanian decision on the conversion at the time of recording. Your performance is less modest, if you will, more pathetic than that. You have credited hundreds of billions of fraudulently stolen money to the bank account, taken from the victims and together legalized the whole process - that's all. More importantly, if you would review the system of obtaining dirty money, whether in obedience to the orders of international rating agents or because of his good advice, the system of obtaining dirty money, then why do you consider it important for him, just a few days before the announcement of credit rating agencies, that, once again, I will extend the activity of the company registered in Cyprus, Minister, to Seychelles, also to companies registered in Seychelles? Do you intend to increase your dirty money from here, or what honest businesses are you planning to import into Hungary? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Take out the bond business - there is no need for such a construction in Hungary - not by listening to the voice of international credit rating agencies, but by listening to their hearts and minds. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-02-158	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Minister also has the right to rejoinder for a moment. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-11-02-159	Thank you, Congressman, for your rejoinder. I would suggest to you that you study the various documents on the division of powers, because you are now seeking a parliamentary committee decision from the government. Congressman, aren't you in the middle of a misrepresentation? [[Intercoms in Jobbik's benches.]] The parliamentary committee will make whatever decision it wants, and the government will make a decision with which it will be accountable to Parliament. [[Dóra Dúró intervenes.]] Of course, but it owes the voters basically a settlement. That is what I would like to draw your attention to, and as I have just said, the government wishes to look at the issue of settlement bonds. My personal opinion is that the conditions of three years ago have changed significantly. In this respect, it is definitely our duty. We want a solution that will ensure, in the long term, the financing of Hungarian public debt with minimal cost and minimum burden. Fortunately, we are in this situation today, not in what we were in six years ago, because Hungary was mentioned with Greece among the countries facing bankruptcy. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-02-160	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Member László Szászfalvi, representative of the KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: å How is the basic supply renewed/renewed in 2016? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. [[Laszlo Szászfalvi nods.]] Congressman also points out that he accepts Mr Bence Rétvári as a replyer. Congressman László Szászfalvi will take the floor.
u2016-11-02-161	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The government has made a successful development of the health sector in recent years. Consider that over the past five years, HUF 500 billion has been spent on health care development, both institution building and professional reinforcement of the supply system and wage increases. This was, for example, the largest of the Visegrád countries in Hungary: a 40% wage increase in the area. Under the next four-year wage increase programme, the wages of health professionals could increase further, which we hope will double by 2019 compared to 2011. This is also important because the renewal of health care, including basic health care, is intended to create a health care system in Hungary, thanks to which the number of years spent in health is increasing. Accordingly, if you look at the supply system, the population of those involved in the primary care, the number of GPs of about 5,000, the protective network of the same number of members, the home-children's faculty of about 1500, 238 full-time school doctors and the members of the dental community of 2800. Dear Secretary of State, We are all very pleased to welcome the significant wage increase process that has started this autumn following a sectoral consultation. In the area of primary care, as well as the problems of women's funding, there is a need to improve the situation of primary care dentists, school doctors or non-health care workers. Therefore, I would like to ask the Secretary of State with respect to increasing the funding of GP services, strengthening dental care, increasing the monthly remuneration of women in charge and supporting school health care. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] what additional resources the government will spend this year. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-02-162	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I mentioned earlier, the answer is given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-02-163	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The government's idea since 2010 that, since most patients meet in primary care, GPs meet patients most often, there are many diseases that can be prevented here, so as much resources need to be provided in primary care precisely for this reason, as this is where most doctors and patients meet. Compared to this, there is obviously a reverse pyramid in the Hungarian health system, there is the smallest funding, where most doctor-patient encounters and where there are fewer, but obviously after that the care is much more intense and much more expensive, there are much higher funding figures. That is why we have said that we should bring as much funding as possible to the level of basic care and thus ensure that the Hungarian people are protected by health, as well as the prevention of diseases, where appropriate. Therefore, every year we spent HUF 10 billion more on basic care. Overall, when you look at it, compared to 2010, the funding for basic care is now 50 percent higher, and a general practitioner receives nearly 1.5 times as much. This year was also part of it, as we spend 14 billion HUF more. Of this, HUF 10 billion will be spent on additional funding for general health care and home-child care, additional HUF 2 billion on additional dental funding, and HUF 2 billion will again be spent on the financing of protective services compared to the previous year. When this form was developed in the sectoral negotiations, from then until 1 January of course, GPs received 130 thousand HUF per month as a surplus, of which this year they can manage more than last year. That's, like I said, 10 billion forints overall. This represents a 7.7% increase in dental care, and we not only included it in fixed fees, but also increased the monthly basic fee of the on-call. We also increased the remuneration of the 5 000 patroness service by HUF 2 billion. This represents an overall increase of 25 per cent since 2010. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-02-164	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman László Szászfalvi. Here you go.
u2016-11-02-165	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you very much for your reply, Mr Secretary of State. In my opinion, the alpha and omega of health care is basic care. Renewal and strengthening of primary care can be the basis for a well-functioning Hungarian health care system. In order to achieve this, all these government steps are essential, but we obviously know and see that further steps, additional instruments are and will be needed. We need to take predictable measures so that this area can develop in the longer term. Perhaps the most important challenge is to ensure personal conditions, because without this it is impossible to take any step forward. It is a daily practice in the countryside that it is very difficult to replace retired elderly general practitioners. I think that we also need to take very important steps to this end in the next period. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-02-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is for Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go. [[14.20]]
u2016-11-02-167	The problem also mentioned by the Member, the issue of ageing general practitioners, has been known for decades, but only in the last three to four years has the government responded by launching the practice programme, in which non-refundable support is given to those who have taken up an empty practice for a year. Here we can talk about HUF 4-6 million in amounts, or even HUF 10 million in the amount of settlement support when someone is also receiving non-refundable support. While we provide money for the practice contest to buy the practice, it is a free use source. Allow me also to highlight the constructions launched within the operational programme that will also help to strengthen the basic supply, with a high enough amount, since HUF 22 billion is available for the infrastructure development of the basic health care system in Hungarian: the development of general medical clinics can be applied for HUF 22 billion in the coming years. The comprehensive development of the basic care and public health system in an EFOP scheme also represents an additional HUF 18 billion, a total of HUF 40 billion. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-02-168	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, Head of the LMP Group, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office an immediate question:, How many people are the government planning to fire? It's an address. Minister Nándor Csepreghy has appointed Minister of State to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask Mrs. Group Leader if she accepts the person who is responding.
u2016-11-02-169	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2016-11-02-170	Mrs Fraction Manager points out that she accepts Mr Nándor Csepreghy as a State Secretary. The word belongs to Ms. Erzsébet Schmuck. Here you go.
u2016-11-02-171	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Minister Lázár spoke in the latest government briefing about the fact that although the 500,000 people's layoffs mentioned by you are based on excessive and incorrect calculations in the public sector, he himself does not want to say the exact figures, because the opposition parties are building a campaign on them. This reminds me of the Gyurcsány government, because at the time the Gyurcsány government hid the deficit data, also claiming that the opposition would build a campaign on it. In addition, it is very interesting when a minister accuses his deputy of throwing numbers on such a serious issue on the basis of incorrect calculations. But even worse, when the minister responsible for the area refuses to tell us how many people they intend to dismiss in the public sector. We claim that the government is completely wrong, because today the public sector is much more prone to labour shortages than surpluses. The LMP disagrees with any level of downsizing. We are confident that hundreds of thousands of people who have been made redundant from the public sector, primarily carrying out administrative work, will not alleviate the shortage of skilled workers in sectors such as construction, manufacturing, small-scale services or IT. And it should be added that the dismissal of hundreds of thousands of people will further undermine the functioning of state institutions, strengthen emigration and not alleviate the labour problem in the country. Therefore, we would like a clear answer: how many people are the government planning to dismantle exactly? Based on what background studies do they decide to cut down, and why are they not made public? Why can't they be open to the hundreds of thousands of people they want to release from the public sector?
u2016-11-02-172	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-02-173	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I didn't think one of the most prepared opposition groups had textual problems. But I do see that there are, so I would like to send you the literal transcription of Minister Lazarus' thoughts on government information. There's a reason the Minister didn't talk about numbers, and I didn't say numbers either. The 500,000 people as a number may be in your paperwork at most. I said that if we consider the country's competitiveness to be important, which is influenced by the state's competitiveness, then we need to open up three questions. The question of the institutional structure of the State must be opened. It is necessary to open the question of what regulatory tools the State uses to coordinate the various industries and to open the question of how many people the State operates when there is a very significant shortage of labour on the market. It can be seen that countries that can be exemplary countries for Hungary or serve as benchmarks - Germany, Poland or Slovakia to talk about our neighbours - produce much lower employment within the public sphere than the market sector can fill. In the case of Germany we are talking about 10-12 percent, in the case of Poland we are talking about 10% and in the case of Slovakia we are talking about 10-15 percent. In Hungary, the proportion of people financed from the budget or from a subsystem of the budget is more than 20 percent of the total employment. I was talking about how in the long term, which represents a 10-year period, it is worth considering how a government can achieve that there should be no more than 15 percent of government employees. It can support this in two ways, on the one hand, by not filling or hiring people to retire. And how can you still support him? Since 2010, there have been 650 thousand more people working in Hungary, and if this number continues to grow, 10-15 percent of them, as a matter of fact, mean much more than placing it in employment conditions today. Thirdly, the state can indeed be slimmer when there is economic growth when there is room to hire these people. Today, I think that equality must be created. No market worker is entitled to a type of security that LMP expects from the government today as a trade union. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-02-174	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. It's a one-minute rejoinder for the woman in charge of the faction. Here you go.
u2016-11-02-175	If I'm reading your words right now, that means that you're not actually planning a dismissal from the public sector, because you said you'd open up a few questions and that people would retire. If this question is opened, what studies are being carried out, and when exactly will the numbers that will naturally fall out of the public sector be assessed and given? And we can assume that those who fall out of the public sector in this way will not actually alleviate labour shortages in Hungary, as they will be retired, they will move to another way of life, and then the question will be the same again, how the government will try to solve the growing labour shortage in Hungary. Although, like I said, we don't think it's right to cut down the public sector.
u2016-11-02-176	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. Nándor Csepreghy, Secretary of State, will take the floor for a moment.
u2016-11-02-177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. No, Congresswoman, you don't understand what I'm saying. I did not say that the government would not dismiss people, because if you look at the government decisions on the back-up institutions that ceased on 1 January, you see that those back-up institutions will blend into the ministries with 20-30 percent less than the size of the framework they worked as an independent back-up institution. I'm talking about the fact that you do have to touch the number of employees in the state. If the state spends tens of billions of forints on digitalisation, to simplify public services, there is no reason to believe that it provides this with the same number of people that were required before digitalisation. I understand that, within the framework of the parliamentary genre, this issue cannot be debated independently of political party standing, so allow me to invite you to a personal, non-media discussion on this issue. I am willing to conduct this debate openly so that a constructive dialogue can be developed between the opposition and the government in this respect. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-02-178	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member Sándor Burány, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the President of the National Bank of Hungary an immediate question:. Do you know how much? It's an address. Congressman Sándor Burány has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-11-02-179	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, What you are doing under your leadership at the Hungarian National Bank is both immeasurable and immoral, thirdly irregular. It is priceless, because when it comes to buying real estate, for example, you spend an enormous amount of taxpayers' money buying these properties, typically buying real estate for multiple book values. I could mention earlier examples, but I'm just giving you a fresh, today's example. Millenáris Irodaház Classic will be paid 8 billion instead of 6 billion, the Millenáris Irodaház Avantgarde double the book value, more than 2 billion, and the Post Office and the Buda Palace will be bought almost 83 percent more expensive. It's immeasurable. And it is immoral for you to employ your own girlfriend at your own institution, at your own workplace, for a salary that the Hungarian worker can only dream of; but not only her, but also the immediate family members of the girlfriend, there is money for the dear Mama. It is quite irregular that you, as it has become clear in a court of law, directly finance the budget by purchasing sovereign debt. This is not only immoral, it is not only immeasurable, it is irregular according to domestic and European laws. It is no coincidence that the European Central Bank indicated that it would investigate the activities of the Hungarian National Bank. [[14.30]] Mr. President. I look forward to your reply as to when you intend to eliminate this immeasurableness, this immorality, and this irregularity.
u2016-11-02-180	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to President György Matolcsy. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2016-11-02-181	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Well, I didn't think you could tell the difference between the book value of a property and its market value. I think that many millions of people in Hungary can make this distinction. The value in the books is quite different from the market value, isn't it? Market value has to be paid, with a higher market value than the book value in the vast majority of cases. Anything in a market economy - you may have a problem with that, anything in a market economy - can only be bought at market value, not at book value. So I suggest that you accept the valuation and market valuation of international valuers, in all cases of international valuers and other market valuers, which, of course, in the vast majority of cases is higher than the book value. Well, I don't care about your ratings, which are a little tasting, but it's irregular from the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank... - you classified it, the European Central Bank didn't do this, you classified the sovereign debt purchased by the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank. No foundation of the Hungarian National Bank has any securities issued by the ÁKK or sovereign debt. But we take into account the concerns of the European Central Bank, although we disagree with them, but we consider it because we belong to a family. Therefore, central bank foundations are constantly deleveraging their sovereign debt and buying real estate on the basis of a market valuation. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-02-182	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Sándor Burány.
u2016-11-02-183	Mr. President. The paper in my hand clearly proves that you're not telling the truth. After all, in the judgment in which you lost your lawsuit against my partner, Bertalan Tóth, it became clear that on 17 February 2015 securities were purchased directly from the Government Debt Management Centre, worth more than EUR 9 million. Mr President, more than EUR 9 million! This is irregular according to domestic law, and is irregular according to international law, because these securities were purchased not in the secondary market, but directly from the issuing State Debt Management Center. This is a violation of domestic and international rules. It is no coincidence that the ECB has been investigating your activities for quite a long time. I hope this investigation will clarify the fate of these funds. Once again, this is a court-ordered case, which I refer to.
u2016-11-02-184	Thank you very much, Congressman. President György Matolcsy has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2016-11-02-185	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I didn't think you could tell the difference between the sovereign debt sold by the ÁKK on the primary and secondary markets, either, Congressman. The central bank foundations are on the second market - second market from the ÁKK! - purchased and traded securities. I ask you, on the basis of the principle, that you pay attention to what I say. I replied that at the moment there is no holding of the securities issued by the ÁKK by the foundations. But once again, on the second market, the Hungarian National Bank - economics and finance - bought sovereign debt traded by the ÁKK at the time, according to the paper quoted by you. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-02-186	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, This concludes the hour of immediate questioning, and this concludes the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. He applied for a post-meeting speech from the Fidesz Group: Mr Sándor Bodó, the new gym was ready on Barándon. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-02-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I have some really good news for you. Within the framework of the national public education infrastructure development programme operated by the Ministry of National Development, the structure of the Baránd gym was implemented. The gym is fully completed, the inhabitants of the village can use it in the days. I thought it important that these sentences should be said here, within the walls of the Hungarian Parliament, because in the last few weeks and months, we have heard from our fellow MSZP Member that this gym building program will certainly not be anything, it will not be built, it will not be built, it will not be built, it will not be financed by the state; that is to say, it is all something that has happened to the contrary, reality. Only a few months ago, in March 2016, the foundation stone of this gym was laid, and the new hall has been completed in the last six months. The conditions created by the government in 2014 ensured that development could take place, and thus this investment could be realised. I've had the opportunity to talk about how important it is for our society to introduce everyday physical education in educational institutions. In order to ensure that all conditions are fulfilled, thanks to the decision of the government, the 5th constituency of Hajdú-Bihar county, Kaba, Báránd, Role and Sárrétudvari settlements have been open to development so far. The government's aim is, in many cases, to contribute to the healthy development of young people and to the preservation and growth of local communities from domestic sources. We know that this is a necessary step for the development of our society, because lifestyle studies have proved that we have no time to waste on this issue. All age groups must have the opportunity to live a healthy life, and we can do this by creating a local opportunity for everyone to move and play sports, whether they live in cities or in the smallest settlements. You can see that the goal is very important, because education for a healthy lifestyle cannot begin early enough. Sport provides a fuller life for all of us, increases physical and mental performance, reduces the chances of developing diseases. That is why everyday physical education is also being introduced in our country. The government has been working ever since to ensure that the conditions required for this are as optimal as possible. So far, the government has allocated HUF 38.7 billion to the implementation of these investments. It is therefore important to emphasise that this effort also resulted in the construction of the Baránd gym. The transfer will take place this year, November 2016, ensuring the right conditions for the residents of the village to play sports. During the project of 182 million forints, a 12-times 24-metre gym was built. And the new facility allows people from Baránd to have the opportunity to play sports under high-quality conditions. I think that such an establishment, in addition to sport, contributes to the coloring of local community life, providing room for cultural, leisure and other events. A European-class gymnasium has been built, which we can and should be proud of. At the general and primary art school of Gusztáv Sári, the new facility is directly accessible to students from the current school building. Also, with the entrance from the main road being built, the village can use the gym in the future to hold smaller or larger events. I hope that, thanks to EU and domestic resources, we will be able to provide further information on the implementation of new investments in the future. And I congratulate the Barándi on their successful development. Thank you for your help. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-02-188	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Ander Balázs, on behalf of the Jobbik Group, spoke after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-02-189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Last Friday, we remembered the 92nd anniversary of his death, the legendary Minister of Land Sharing. Nagyatádi Szabó Istvánra in Csokonyavisonta, South Somogyi's native village. Indeed, the crowd gathered in honor of the small farmer's politician, both at the memorial house of István Szabó, and at the courtyard of the Reformed Church, and at the imposing monument set up in the cemetery, could hear an eloquent obituary. [[14.40]] But is the exalted pathus enough if we are to bow down to the apostle of the land? And if we want to pay our respects not only to man but also to political legacy, can honest reckoning be saved? Is there enough courage in the speaker to ask whether the sowing of István Nagyatádi Szabó is ripe? Or Viktor will certainly not allow this, because the pro-government representative who, in memory of the first member of Parliament of peasant origin, would try to raise questions about the difficult fate of the countryside and the Hungarian village he left alone, and about the rural population he often considered to be second-class, would say a few words about their everyday reality. "We are Pusztulunk," wrote István Nagyatádi's contemporary, the Reformed teacher of the neighbouring village Rinyaújlak, Bálint Arany a hundred years ago. Unfortunately, we can also say that we are destroyed, lost. A hundred years ago, Csokonyavisonta, born from the union of Erdőcsokonya and Somogyvisonta, counted more than 3,000 souls. And although it is impossible, according to Lajos Kósa Fidesz, for Hungarians to go abroad because of the lack of prospects, it would be good to finish the smug caviar service in the ivory tower, and also to look at rural regions in the peripheral situation, such as, say, the average South-Transdanubian county, such as Somogy, where 40 percent of the settlements will have a certain death within a generation of time, unless all the very beautiful government gentlemen living in every very good dream world, who are very satisfied with everything, finally realize that there is enough for the Hungarian village if they do not immediately take population-reservation measures. Why does the 120,000 Somogy residential properties consist of over 21,000 empty if the government's propaganda says everything's okay? What would István Nagyatádi have said about a land auction where one third of the 12 billion forints running into the state register for the land of Somogy, which was then hit by 10 thousand hectares, weren't made by small farmers with callous palms, but by ten of the strongest interests here, of whom the largest one billion forints had bought a thousand hectares of land for himself? I'm sure he didn't dream of spreading the land like this. Would it not be considered a murderous dagger against the countryside that such money is not turned back by agriculture, not by the Hungarian village, not by raising the countryside, but by the government in its all-inclusive barrel of public debt? I wonder how you would feel about giving a nod to the free trade agreement between Canada and the EU, where we can go wrong where we have the potential, namely, food safety and GMO-free. The political slogan written on the foundation of the bronze statue of the Ministry of Agriculture said: "We came to the Parliament not to hurt, but to heal wounds. The political philosophy of the lover of the South Somogy flowery lankas has been faithfully summarized. But if it were between us again, a cuckoo swearing would only break out of István Nagyatádi Szabó, who embodys the Hungarians who are peace-tolerant and bear the tree-cutting on his back. After his father, the Széchenyi's former half-cocked serf, he had six moons, two acres of meadows, small vineyards and pastures. With his own diligence, he was able to get 16 more acres. Shortly before his death, he said in a report: "I have always lived among deprivations; if my time allowed me, I have worked for others in deforestation and number of days, and thus I have gathered the small wealth that is now together. I have forty-five cadastral moons, but only now, since my wife inherited fifteen moons. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. With the gucci- and Vuitton-ridiküled, tight-suited, peasant-suited, pickled, and rather strange declarations of property, our brother Pista may even have his moustache, roll up his sleeve, stick his finger in his hand, and start cleaning out Augias' stable, where the dung is very high. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-02-190	On behalf of the Government, Mr Pál Völner is responding. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-02-191	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I am very sorry that the Member does not have such profound historical knowledge [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks.]] that he could really recall the age at which István Nagyatádi Szabó was farming, in which he grew up, and compare it to today's relations. But to mention István Nagyatádi Szabó, he was one of our largest agricultural ministers, indeed, and one of the first peasant MEPs, one of the most important small farmers politicians. He was elected a municipal judge at 27 years of age and followed political events along with the management of his economy. From 1904 he was a member of the Legislative Commission of Somogy County. He became president and soul of the Somogy County Association of Small Masters established in January 1908. In a few months, the organization put the whole peasantry of Somogy County behind it, and in the summer of this year, it was elected a Member of Parliament, and since then it has been named Nagyatádi. With his first speech in the House of Representatives, he made a public statement when he asked his fellow Members to call the farmer not a peasant, but a small farmer, because the word "farmer" in Transdanubia was negative. After the adoption of the Land Reform Act in 1920, 400 thousand claimants had an average of one hectare of agricultural land - I mention this only because if we compare it with today's relations, we may be able to say that we have achieved greater results today - and he founded the first small farmers' party in 1909 in Szentgal. [[Ander Balázs intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] It's known as the National Independence Party, 48th. If we're talking about big estates, then again, I'm telling the congressman to take out the history books and study that back then [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Why should you be a lecturer? Don't be such a jerk.]] how much there was a trust, how many estates were put together. István Szabó Nagyatádi's work, his life is exemplary for the civil government established in 2010, which has set the goal of implementing a small farmer's agricultural policy. In the spirit of this, he decided to increase the proportion of small and medium-sized enterprises to 80% of the large estates, to strengthen family farms as the backbone of agriculture, and to give Hungarian farmers land ownership from the National Land Fund, to rebuild the manufacturing industry that had previously been destroyed, and to protect these achievements from Brussels. The land for the farmers! In the framework of a programme, the government sold almost 200,000 hectares of agricultural land between October 2015 and August 2016, for a total of 30 thousand farmers, i.e. one third of the right holders. These lands were sold above the market price, at an average price of approximately HUF 1.4 million per hectare, and the state also provided credit for this. At HUF 270 billion you can regret the fact that the government debt reduction is being spent, but if you think that when the country is strong, when it can support farmers, it must not remain in debt. This fits well with the government's policy since 2010. At present, more than ten times as many public land can be used as before 2010. All lease payments are preceded by a public tender procedure. According to the right of pre-emption, every year we own land worth billions of forints. Strengthening Community land use is a top priority. Local governments have been granted free trust rights from NFA since 2010 for 15 years. The government has prepared a national rural development strategy until 2020, which has not been completed in Hungary for decades. About HUF 3700 billion will come to agriculture and rural development between 2014-2020, of which 2400 billion will be available directly for agriculture and 1300 billion for rural development programmes. To this end, the government will continue to fight the tracks of Nagyatádi both at home and abroad, and we expect the support and active participation of all our fellow nations who can and will for the Hungarian countryside. Thank you for your attention. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári and Balázs Ander applaud.]]
u2016-11-02-192	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The mayor of Sleepy Fidesz who stole LCD TV because of Kóser-Hungarian gastronomic specialities from Jobbik's group? Mr Gergely Kulcsár spoke after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[14.50]]
u2016-11-02-193	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to draw your attention to a pearl of the Fidesz corruption machine which has been undeserved in my speech after the agenda. This spring I filed a complaint against István Köteles, Fidesz mayor of Álmosd, with representatives of the county of István Vértesi and Tibor Ágoston Debrecen. The investigation is still ongoing, but I would like to briefly describe the facts that have come to our attention. The mayor tried to account for the costs of eight events that did not take place, so there was no way to know what the head of Fidesz spent the millions of money on. Just one example: In August 2012, the municipality paid in cash an invoice containing about 700 litres of soft drinks and mineral water, 121 kilograms of meat and 200 kilograms of vegetables and fruit, but in 2012 there was no event where such consumption would have taken place. Seven other similar fictitious events were accounted for, according to the mayor, for the joy of the inhabitants of Sleepy, but probably for the increase in the wealth of the Fidesz politician. By the way, Mayor István Köteles has been refusing to pay the municipality for hundreds of thousands of HUF in mobile phone costs for years. In addition, the mayor authorised the payment of more than HUF 3 million without the authority and knowledge of the body of representatives by Vesta-Invest Kft. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: However, he could not have done this without the authority of the board, so he violated the law; but what is interesting is that the owner of Vesta-Invest was Henrietta Kincs, who was the campaign manager of the parliamentary representative of the district, László Tasó, State Secretary for Transport Policy at the time of the parliamentary elections in 2014. Meanwhile, the Board of Representatives of Sleepy City unanimously initiated disciplinary action against István Köteles, while a labour suit was launched against the Fidesz mayor. The most interesting answers were received from István Köteles in connection with the purchase of technical goods in the settlement at a hearing of the labour lawsuit. Sleepy settlement has recently purchased a steam iron, a 120-litre boiler [[Defiance from the Jobbik benches.]] , kitchen robotics and LCD television, but these equipment can be found in the apartment of the Fidesz mayor. The question of why the local government needed a kitchen robot machine and why it was in his house, Köteles explained that they wanted to create a food processing plant quoting a special kosher-Hungarian flavour, and they were experimenting with food in his home with the help of a specialist. For example, there has been a pickled paprika filled with spicy peppers, but unfortunately it is not yet possible to taste it, because it is not yet official. He claimed that he was studying the professional material of the investment at the level of the project at night on the also purchased LCD TV and on a corresponding blue-ray player. [[Defiance from the Jobbik benches.]] Ladies and gentlemen, This isn't a joke. The mayor of Fidesz was serious about buying a machine, boiler, LCD TV and a blue-ray player for his kosher gastronomic adventures, which, of course, does not count as stealing, since the mayor's office records the said equipment. Dear House, Fidesz does the same thing all over the country, only big. They think people are stupid, and they're up to their necks in corruption. We can think here of István Tiba, Roland Mengyi, Andy Vajna, Farkas, Florian Fóka, or the Rogán business of the settlement policy. You're gonna fall for this, and you're gonna be waiting for the Jobbik government to account for you and the left-wing politicians. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-11-02-194	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-02-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The congressman also mentioned that the municipality had taken a disciplinary decision. If I remember correctly from the news, then the Fidesz MEPs voted in the same way that proceedings were initiated here. I quote the words of Minister János Lázár, who recently said in this House, that everyone is responsible for his actions. Hopefully, after impartial official investigations and judicial proceedings, the truth will be revealed and a decision will be taken accordingly. I am very pleased that Jobbik is so obsessed with public money and is concerned about it, although I note that if we compare non-comparable Fidesz municipalities with comparable right-wing municipalities, as if there were more scandals in your area, it was just a comment. On the other hand, if the same moral standard has been set for you, how is it that in the case of Béla Kovács, which is about the espionage scandal, and helped by a failed spy, there has been no opinion on this matter to this day. How is it that a significant part of the resources available to your group lands in the company group of mysterious entrepreneurs? I'm talking about trucking and driving companies that are writing you major studies. They didn't answer that question either. But let's just say that money at Jobbik's isn't public money, so the fate of it doesn't matter. Their two faces can also be seen in the fact that their group leader has not yet been given an objective opinion on his extensive VAT fraud case, but they are just sneaking around in this matter. Or let me mention a forgotten case: What did Prefect Novak have in mind when he said that they wanted to organize Jobbik's hundred million-dollar properties. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: You talk nonsense! We don't have any real estate...]] Until these questions are answered, I believe that they have no moral basis for making any excuses to the ruling parties, especially if it can be seen that the principle of individual responsibility is probably in every case, as the Minister mentioned. Thank you for your attention. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You're talking nonsense! Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-02-196	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, How much longer? Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has applied for a speech on the agenda from the Jobbik Group. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2016-11-02-197	Mr President, Dear House, I try to take a deep breath at a time like this, but in front of me, the Secretary of State has been caught up in things that are unusual even here. In high school of lying, you could get your own cathedral and have a hell of a class there. You're accusing Jobbik of a hundred million-dollar real estate outsourcing... [[Dr. Pál Völner pointing to Jobbik:]] - Shut up, I'm talking! - he doesn't have any real estate. Well, where are you going for counselors...
u2016-11-02-198	I'm sorry, Congressman, I'm talking, and you're grounding him for that. You do not have the opportunity to respond to a pre-emptive speech in your speech after the agenda. With all due respect, I'm asking you to tell me yours, and let's leave it at that. There you go. You have the floor.
u2016-11-02-199	Mr President, Dear House, Returning from the government's lie spiral to reality, this weekend I was in Kispesten with a family of foreign exchange credit victims who were about to be evicted. I tried to direct my questions to the Minister of National Economy Mihály Varga, while the President of the Central Bank was in the Chamber, but we did not receive any substantive answers. Let us summarize the facts. The fact is that today more than 140,000 people in Hungary are still unable or unable to fully cover their so-called loans, and therefore may be forced to evict because of their debt beyond 90 days. About 15,000 auctions took place. We have to say that while this government is singing praises about its own performance, a Romanian decision, where the so-called loans were converted at the rate of admission, has put the debtors there in a much more favourable position than the government here has treated its own citizens. Here, they did not forint at the rate of admission, but almost put a market rate on the neck of the unfortunate victims, causing hundreds of thousands of people to be unduly hit. In addition, the government has signed a pact with the Banking Alliance, perhaps in an unprecedented way in Europe, at the mercy of its own citizens to the commercial banks that have carried out dozens of abuses, as you have recognised. The victims were offered pretend solutions, not real ones. The private bankrupt's institution is a mess. It's bankrupt. They couldn't get a few hundred contracts. The National Asset Manager is perhaps one of their most successful constructions, and as far as the National Asset Manager is concerned, more than 30,000 people have been deprived of their property. These people can rent back their own apartments, houses. Even this seems helpful to many, rather than the street. The problem is that the budget for this institution is slowly being exhausted. According to press reports, there are about 500 seats available. Today, when I asked the Minister of National Economy about when, in what form, budget resources are allocated here, he did not respond, although these people, if not worth providing temporary assistance, could be helped. It's a few billion forints. We'd need a few billion forints here. This would be a fraction of the move to the Castle. But if you look at the fact that we are talking about a fraction of the brokerage revenue of their residency bond business, it is quite ridiculous that Hungarian citizens, Hungarian victims, will not be paid that much money. The fact is that if only half of the amount of around 100 billion in the amount of money absorbed by brokerage companies in their offshore business would be grouped here, almost all the injured would be in human situations. For you, for some reason, it's not important. [[15.00]] Although it was already in the press that this settlement bond business, the Fidesz-KDNP method of obtaining dirty money, should be reviewed. They're not leading him out, they're reviewing him. Yet, reality is different. What I hold in my hand This is the Economic Committee's decision adopted today, where the Fidesz-KDNP review does one thing instead of one thing: it extends the activities of the intermediary company that is visible to me, registered in Cyprus, to the territory of Seychelles. This fidesz national vision, which also brings in wealthy migrants from Seychelles, who will buy and then expire, of course, will have to pay back the funds; but it seems that it is not enough for you to be unable to deal with the problems around the fence, and now you can't even deal with the rich migrants. As far as ArabianBusiness.com is concerned, we see that they are continuing to advertise the bond that is already being published in the press about its release and review - I would stress that its review, even though it would be closer to me - but what we see is that while they cannot separate a few billion forints in this respect from the credit victims, the acquisition of dirty money is still important. And in such a sharp situation, when all the rights of conscious resettlement should be rejected in a package, it is still more important for you to extend to Seychelles the activities of Cypriot companies, supposedly offshore. Private people, entrepreneurs, money people come into this country instead of the people in Hungary. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-02-200	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-02-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I would like to clarify a few basic concepts, because otherwise I would have to consider most of your speech a slippery one. Firstly, migration and the fact that a person receives a residence permit in Hungary are not the same concept. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Of course, only with money.]] Maybe we can agree on that. The other part is that if we are talking about bonds, which Congressman stressed in his speech, we know that it is a sovereign debt financing instrument. It is absurd that the amount of interest or commission paid on public debt could be used to finance anything, because if there is no bond, then there is no such cost and no revenue that we are talking about. So if there is no sovereign debt financing, then there is no budget. This is an ever-present cost element that can be financed in this way by renewing debt, as the public debt is on a declining path, but we know that this cannot be brought to zero in no time. It's in the Fundamental Law that it has to go below 50 percent. So this government has done what it has done in recent years, and in the most difficult economic situation it has been able to comply with the debt reduction. As regards the question of the foreign exchange taxpayers who have failed, you know very well, Mr President, you have been sitting here since 2010 on what this government has done on this issue, which has affected some a million people. First of all, we may all remember the issue of final repayment - or we don't want to remember it - this is possible if we want to criticize the government's activities, but with this we managed to rescue a number of debtors, more than 130 thousand debtors. We all remember the question of the exchange rate barrier when we managed to stop the payments from rising; the use of the exchange rate gap, the imposition of the clearing obligation to consumers by the financial institution as a result of the unilateral change in interest rate charges, also praises the work of this government. To avoid future exchange rate risks, the forinting of mortgage debt and consumer loans, which was a significant step; the exchange rate risk that Mr President is talking about, has not been there since. We also remember the date of the forinting, that right after that there was a large decline in foreign exchange conditions, which was prevented by the fact that the National Bank had properly set the date of the forinting. Making interest conditions for consumer credit contracts more transparent and predictable also commends the work of this Parliament. Ensure the suspension of bankruptcy and enforcement procedures for families that can be repaid. Settlement of their debts under eased conditions. Thank you very much for the question, by the way, because we have been able to recall all the points that we have made on these issues, which are 90 percent - now perhaps we can say that if Mr President had counted a hundred thousand - they have solved the debt burden, they have made it bearable. According to the Forinting Act, as I mentioned, 90 percent of foreign exchange loans have been converted. In the Accounting Act, the banks had to pay - all of us remember - with the reimbursement of the various costs they had unilaterally created, the interest rate settlement, the exchange of currency costs. In addition to the measures of the settlement and forinting laws, the National Bank issued a recommendation to financial institutions in the spring of 16 to conclude agreements with late mortgage lenders and debtors of cancelled mortgage loans. And finally, the private institution, mentioned by the Member, was precisely the means that I mentioned, which justified the private institution of the debtor to a limited extent. But this also ensures that it will provide a solution after which residential property is not in danger of being executed or forced to sell, but those overdebted would not be able to escape the debt trap without easing the burden of bankruptcy and repayment, so it opens up this possibility. So the accusation that this government doesn't care about debtors, those in trouble, those with foreign exchange credit, doesn't hold up, is always the government's maximum, depending on the options. Thank you.
u2016-11-02-202	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. What does Jobbik's policy in Jasmine risk? Mr Pócs, Member of the Fidesz Group, spoke after the agenda. Congressman, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2016-11-02-203	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We can all remember Ferenc Gyurcsány's infamous sentence: you can leave here. Then some left, some stayed home. In 2010, people had a legitimate expectation that we should create jobs, lead people back to the world of work. And we did. Unemployment has now fallen below 5 percent, which is also important because in 2009 it was still above 10 percent during the Balliberal Landing. The civilian government spent a thousand billion forints on job creation. Today, in some parts of the country, there is a shortage of workers rather than unemployment. And this is undoubtedly due to the current governance. We can remember when the Gyurcsánys were alarmed by 22 million Romanians, now Jobbik is doing the same. The president of a party that would have destroyed a television headquarters a few years ago, but today he's obediently purring for his new owners and starring himself on ATV. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] In 2010, Ajka said on the day of Arab-Hungarian friendship that he would prefer to let Arab than Israeli or American financial institutions into the country. Today, however, he is obviously reluctant to remember that statement. I suppose not because the other day he said in Miskolc that Hungarian people should be caught up in Western European wages. There's a question of how, how. A loan from Arab financial institutions called by Jobbik? Or should the money be distributed in the name of the last hope of humanity, Islam? Mr President, I also think it is important that I speak about this within the walls of this House, because Gábor Vona's conflicting contentions are copied by his country believers. I've got one of the Jobbik leaders of Jászság published on Facebook. [[He's showing me a card.]] He's alerting the population that dozens of Ukrainians are coming to the Jászság. Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, some Transcarpathian citizens came to the Jászság, but the news is not true as the bettermen spread it. Let's see the facts. In Jászság, the pre-crisis tax rate was exceeded by the Jászság companies. The net contribution and taxes are now nearly HUF 40 billion. The employment in Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County is 64 thousand people. The Jászság accounts for 40 percent of this, i.e. nearly 25,000 people are employed here. In addition to such lively employment, jobs have been unfulfilled for years. Like 600 places they hired Transylvanian, southern Hungarians, and now some Ukrainian national workers. So, in terms of total employment, there's about 2 percent and 2 percent damage to the Jászságsági Jobbik. As an elected Member of Parliament in the region, I would like to ask you to allow me to convey the views of the majority of the people of jazz. We are very happy when the jasmine people have jobs, we have worked a lot, today we have a very good chance of getting a job in Jasmine. [[15.10]] Ladies and gentlemen, We understand that if people from Transylvania are recruited for jobs that have been unfilled for months, we are also glad that the Transcarpathians help us. It also shows that Jobbik is just talking about the Carpathian Basin alliance, and we're making it happen. Of course, the question arises why workers in Transcarpathia should not come to work with us. Why would it be a problem if the taxes paid for their work were to build jazz schools, roads, hospitals? Why should we lock the door in front of them, the announced, decent workers? They're busy workers, too. And finally, do the jazz bettermen do the work for them, or do they only pay for moods and hate campaigns? Or are they the loudest ones who are unfit to work or sleep at work, or are they stealing their employer? It is precisely because of such better workers that we need migrant workers in Jászság. Ladies and gentlemen, Gábor Vona and his local fans are not on the side of truth, not facts, but passions, they want to take away the joint success of the people of jazz. On the other hand, people say that we should not bite into the hand that gives us the bread, even if it is Hungarian, even if it is a guest worker's hand. Mr President, thank you for your attention.
u2016-11-02-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would also like to draw the Member's attention to the houseliness of the illustration. Now, on behalf of the government, I am speaking to Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, who is responding to what has been said. Here you go.
u2016-11-02-205	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Everyone can see that the Hungarian economy is doing better. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] Allow me to mention some current examples in support of this. GDP growth in Hungary increased by 2.6 percent in the second quarter of 2016, reaching the second best result of the EU on a quarterly basis. Real earnings in the national economy increased by 7.5 percent in the first eight months of 2016. Industrial production increased by 11.1 percent in August this year. The production of vehicle parts increased by 15.7 percent, and the manufacturing industry showed a 12 percent increase. In Hungary, the desire to build homes increased most in the second quarter: the number of permits for more than two apartment houses increased by 230 percent compared to the same period of the previous year. More and more innovative companies announce that they invest in Hungary. ByD, the manufacturer of electric buses, will set up its first European plant in Komárom with HUF 6.2 billion investment. The German SAP, which develops business software, creates new jobs with a HUF 4 billion investment. This means that the Hungarian national economy is increasingly in need of adequate labour. [[Ádám Mir. Kózkóczki: Yes, only abroad!]] It can also be seen from the fact that unemployment has fallen to 4.9 percent, this low rate has not been measured in Hungary in 26 years. The natural consequence of the expansion of the economy is the emergence of job shortages, professions in which there are not enough skilled workers, so knowledge of these professions is a safe livelihood for people. The government does not object to workers coming from EU or non-EU neighbouring countries in the deficit sector, in compliance with the relevant legislation, as this is an advantage for the persons, companies and Hungary concerned. In addition to the protection of the domestic labour market and the interests of Hungarian workers, it is only possible to employ foreigners in Hungary. One of the most important principles of the licensing system is that workers from outside the EU are entitled to work in Hungary only if the vacancy cannot be filled with Hungarian or EU citizens. There are strict conditions for a simplified authorisation procedure for citizens of the non-EU Member State neighbouring Hungary, where the government has taken the labour market needs and economic interests of Hungary into account. It should be noted that the number of licences issued in the last year was only 5 thousand, while the quota was 59 thousand. It is clear from this that the government intends to solve the labour problems of businesses, not with foreigners, but essentially with Hungarian workers. However, Jobbik is indeed pursuing a confusing and irresponsible policy, and we can see this from the fact that on the issue of referendum and constitutional amendment, they could not overcome their perceived party political interests, where they supported the country's defence, or did not. Jobbik's irresponsible and confusing policy is a good example of the fact that the party president said earlier that he wanted to invite the Iranian Revolutionary Guard into the country as an election observer and called Islam, as we have repeatedly quoted, the last hope of humanity. In addition, Jobbik has a relationship with the extremist army, the president of which claims to be a Nazi, and Gábor Vona admitted that he has Nazi friends. Jobbik is a troubled party that seems capable of anything for money and power, even unreal things. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-11-02-206	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. It was eight years ago that MEP Zoltán Magyar applied for a speech on the agenda with the title of the insult in Dunaszerdahely. Congressman, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2016-11-02-207	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Indeed, eight years ago, the Dunaszerdahely disgrace occurred when the local football club, the flagship of the Hungarians in the Highlands and Slovan in Bratislava clashed. And even though these eight years have passed, even though those shameful events have happened, it still takes the Jobbik to make this sound within the walls of this House. It also started out as an ordinary Saturday on my part, as I was sipping coffee at home, and we were on the phone with friends excitedly, as we were preparing for the match, because, as usual, we do not leave the Hungarians in Dunaszerdahely alone, and they come from almost every club fans in the truncated country as reinforcements, so that we can encourage the Highland team together. At the time when I was excited about the game at home, I couldn't have imagined that this memory wouldn't be as cheerful as I thought it would be then. Even the history and the experience at the scene allowed us to conclude that there would not be a simple day, a simple match: on the one hand, police preparedness was brutal, and even soldiers were seen in the city, as well as commandos, who were completely unwarranted, justified and held up those who spoke Hungarian, all of this in a city where the decisive part of the population was Hungarian. It was not a serious problem until the middle of the first half, as the fans of the two clubs were obviously verbally teasing each other, teasing each other, but they did not exceed the level that would otherwise not happen at any football match. However, in the middle of the first half, completely unwarranted and unexpectedly, the Slovak authorities' people broke into one of the Hungarian sectors and started beating everyone indiscriminately. It didn't matter if he was old, child, lady, or someone I could understand was beaten. Unfortunately for me, I was in this sector with my friends, and we got one, and I can confirm that this brutal police force was indeed completely unjustified. The recordings of each of them, which the Slovak police and the authorities later raised as arguments why they had to intervene, turned out to be a lie: either these provocations did not take place, or those shots were taken after the brutal action of the police. [[15.20]] It did not matter what sex, what age the person was, as I said, and the result was that 50 were injured, 24 of them became serious; and Krisztián Lengyel was transported by a rescue helicopter to the hospital in Bratislava, and the 18 - year - old boy had sustained permanent injuries, and he still did not receive an apology for that. During such events, in the line of fire, the words that had been spoken a few minutes earlier from the mouth of a police officer of Hungarian origin and warned us to watch out for your blood. At that time, a few minutes earlier, we did not understand that this could have such serious real consequences. The parallel of '92 flashed immediately, when the fradists were even worse in Bratislava. And now, eight years later, it is worth drawing another parallel, because the current government treats Hungarian fans in a similar way, aggravating factor is that it is home. You can expect about the same Hungarian ultra today as Hungarian fans could expect eight years ago out in Slovakia. We are pleased that the relationship between our country and our northern neighbour is now good, because in the midst of modern-day migration, it is very important that those countries that are still thinking sober on this issue in Europe should join forces and try together to combat these negative factors, which have a significant impact on Europe's future. We don't have a problem with that, but we can't just walk away from such actions. And what do we expect, eight years after the events? Apologize to the Slovaks. Not just us, not just those who suffered injury there, they humiliated the whole nation. However, we could rightly expect an apology from the Hungarian State Department, which acted in the same impotent manner as we have seen in recent decades. And we would also like to make sure that the Hungarian cheerleader is finally put in place in the Hungarian legal order. It must be said that the cheerleader is not a criminal, even if you, the Fidesz government, are treating it that way. We need to fix this. And if these three things happen, maybe I'll believe that you don't have to worry about going home in a bloody sweater again after a game. But until these things happen, this outrage, as a burning torch, is hanging over the head of the government as a burning exclamation mark. So an apology is the least we can expect right now. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-02-208	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Pál Völner responds. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-02-209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Please allow me to reply to your statement after eight years ago on the agenda entitled "Dunaszerdaszerdől": On November 1, 2008 in Dunaszerdahely, Hungary's current government condemns events in the football match between the DAC and the Slovak bands. We find it unacceptable to take any form of violence accompanying sport, especially as a manifestation of hatred between nations. From this point of view, we are also monitoring developments in Hungary across borders, and, if necessary, we are expressing our concern about possible negative trends. At the same time, we are reassured that, in the case of Hungarian-bound teams and athletes operating in Slovakia, similar serious incidents have not taken place in recent years. We express our hope that from what happened eight years ago, the competent Slovak authorities have also drawn the right conclusions and will continue to ensure a peaceful and calm organisation of sporting events involving Hungarian athletes or Hungarian teams and Hungarian fans, worthy of the spirit of sport. Allow me, Congressman, to still respond to your statement on the work of the domestic police at the national authorities. I'm gonna have to decline that. Since 2010, the police have been sure to comply with the relevant legislation. Another question is whether you will enforce it with those who, let's say, do not wish to keep it. And the Hungarian State will also act in every case when it comes to protecting Hungarian interests. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-11-02-210	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next autumn session is expected to take place on 7 November 2016. I would like to thank my fellow Members, the staff of the Parliamentary Office, for their work. Thank you very much for keeping the record. The meeting's closed. I wish you all a good, safe return, a restful good night. [[The meeting ended at 3:23 p.m.]]
