u2016-09-12-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The first day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to our guests and everyone who's watching our work. Dear Parliament, On behalf of all of us, I warmly and respectfully welcome Mr Stanislaw Karczewski, President and escort of the Senate of the Republic of Poland, Senator and Senators. [[A big round of applause.]] I wish you good luck in your negotiations in Hungary and a good time for your programmes. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to announce that the LMP Group has elected Erzsébet Schmuck as group leader, János Volner Group of Jobbik as group leader, and Gábor Vona as deputy group leader. I congratulate you all and wish you all the best of luck in your election and your work. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has applied for a speech before the agenda today:. I give the floor to Prime Minister. Here you go.
u2016-09-12-1	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Polish Friends! According to our constitutional customs, at the beginning of the autumn session, on behalf of the Government, I must tell you what the most important developments since our last session have been at home and in the outside world that is important to us, and it is also appropriate to talk about the more serious topics of the season ahead. Ladies and gentlemen, There are many months behind us: the United Kingdom has left the European Union, Europe has been shaken by acts of terrorism; there have been the Olympics, and life has progressed as usual, bread has been harvested again this year, Hungarian agriculture has shown its strength, and 5.2 million tonnes have been harvested instead of 2.7 million tons required for self-sufficiency. Ladies and Gentlemen, Despite the good news at home, I must tell you that today we have a general sense of European life, that we are living in troubled times. Events are converging, time is running out, we need to make decisions, we need to make decisions. We must assess our strength and opportunities, we must set the right course, if we want to be masters and not sufferers of all that is ahead of us. As you will hear, we have serious things ahead of us, and we are facing a difficult and trying struggle, so I suggest that we first fix where we are now, where Hungary is today. We're halfway through the government cycle, and it's worth checking where we've been in the middle of the last cycle and what we've done. Regardless of political disputes, there is a national public agreement that there are working years behind us: the country's finances have been put in order, the price increases and unemployment have been contained, the IMF has been sent home, we have repaid every last penny of the loan taken by the Socialists not only to the IMF, but also to the European Union. We have been supporting families in an unprecedented way, and every year since 2013, people's earnings have increased, and Hungary has managed to maintain the value of pensions. [[13.20]] We have achieved a reduction in the cost of electricity, and for four years we have been continuously protecting the results of the reduction in the cost of electricity. We rescued the families and rescued the settlements from the debt trap. We have taken important steps on the long road to unification. In the summer of 2012, the number of people working in Hungary was around 3 million 850 thousand. This number has increased to over 4 million 300 thousand this summer, an increase of 450,000. In the summer of 2012, 463,000 Hungarians had no jobs, this summer only 227 thousand, and it is worth considering that the number of vacant posts in Hungary is over 100,000. [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP.]] So we halved unemployment until unemployment was 10.7 per cent in the summer of 2012, today 5 per cent. Once again, 5 percent; while we were in 18th place among the EU countries, today we have only 3 countries, or three countries. As you know, the government intends not to stop here, as I have repeatedly said, our aim is full employment. If there is work, there is everything, this was the essence of the government program, and this old wisdom proved to be true. Domestic economic growth was minus 1.6 per cent in the second quarter of 2012, and in a similar period of 2016 - compared to the previous number - we can enjoy a 2.6 per cent increase. We also managed to cut a decent piece of public debt. At the end of 2012, the government debt was 78,3 percent and is expected to be 74,6 percent at the end of this year. So our economic indicators are going well, and even the IMF would be happy if we hadn't sent them home. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] But we have not only made progress in the big economic figures, but also in the question of wallets. With our own strength, our own performance, and not with the borrowings, wages are climbing up. The minimum wage was 93 thousand forints in the summer of 2012 and 111,000 forints this year. [[Nándor Gúr: Gross...]] The gross average salary in the summer of 2012 was around 220 thousand forints, and this year it was 260 thousand forints. In the meantime, there is virtually no inflation. Good news, House, that more and more families can afford to go on vacation [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Rogán!]] As long as the number of domestic guests in the first seven months of 2012 was 2 million 300 thousand, this year about 3.2 million, and this represents an increase of 900,000. We have also made progress in reducing the burden of starting school on families' wallets. [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: Credit!]] I know that the start of the school year is a burden, which is a problem for some of the Hungarian families, but I can say with a good feeling that every year there is a positive change. In this year's school year, about two thirds of students receive free textbooks, and that was 37 thousand more than a year ago. [[There are constant interruptions from the lines of the MSZP.]] The whole picture of our development is starting to look good, but we're still not where we want to be. We want no family to have a problem raising the cost of living. We work to make it easier every year, so that every year everyone can step forward. Mr President, So I can tell you that we're moving ahead more than four years ago. Thank you to all Hungarians for the work they have done. We've worked a lot, and as a result, we're on the right track. Finally, we have a future, a lot to hope for. We can say that every Hungarian person's work makes sense, and it improves the situation of the entire community, in addition to improving his own life. The components of the common life of Hungarian people are well matched, we are once again a community, a nation. Dear House, Mr President, We also enjoyed the success of our Olympics this summer. We lift our hats in front of all Hungarian contestants and throw them in front of the champions. We are proud of them, thank you for showing us again how great it is to be Hungarian. Ladies and Gentlemen, But here's the thing. Although I said earlier that, thanks to our joint efforts, we finally have a future again, and Hungary is on the right track, what is more, it is heading in the right direction, the situation, the situation of our country and the Hungarian people is not so simple. Let's not put our heads in the sand. Hungary is not an independent globe, it is not a separate ball bis, which revolves only around its own axis. [[13.30]] We're in the middle of Europe. In the middle of the Europe that is experiencing ominous times. In the middle of a Europe which, if it is not able to give decisive and good answers to the threats that it faces, will be fatally weakened, and then we Hungarians too can boast of our own achievements in vain. Your Honour, Mr. President. Summer has added to Europe's problems. Brexit is no longer an option, but a hard reality. It can't be undone. After the Brexit, Britain, thank you very much, is having a good time. So we don't have to worry about Britain. The United Kingdom is the sixth largest economy in the world, stable and knows what it wants. It's not London, it's Brussels. Brexit is a failure of European policy, Brussels' failure, for us and for us. Plus, instead of self-examination, we're playing resentful. The truth is that our leaders had every means to keep the European Community together, but they couldn't. It would be popular, but inexpensive, to beat the dust on President Juncker now, especially after Hungary has not supported his appointment. Still, I suggest we not do that. What we need now is not an internal reckoning, but sensible debates, their meaningful closure and unity in Europe. Ladies and Gentlemen, But not only are the British dissatisfied with Brussels. If you look around, you can see that all of Europe is arguing, branching and boiling. Terror and violence have become part of life in Western Europe as a result of modern migration. Ever since we met, terror has moved into Europe. Nice and a series of small towns in Germany stand before us as mementos. Again, I say we don't stick our heads in the sand. What could have happened in Belgium, France and even Germany could have happened anywhere in the European Union. There is a reason why Europe's traditional political establishment is rumbled. The problem was caused by parties and governments that responded with naivety to the challenges posed by immigration. Dear House, Naivity is a dangerous thing, and it's twice as dangerous in politics. It's a mistake. And there is no excuse for that, because we Hungarians know, at least we know that the road to hell is paved with good intentions. It's naive politics that amazes us, takes away our capacity to act, and eventually brings trouble to our heads. Today, this naivety is common in Brussels. They think there's been trouble before, they're gone somehow. Brussels is a fog with the vain hope that things will return to their former, prosperous and safe state. They think that - now here without the English - a 440 million in Europe would not be worth a few million Muslim migrants. They're wrong. This hope is a vain fantasy. Mirage and naive self-delusion. Things aren't going to get better on their own, they're just getting worse. Ladies and Gentlemen, Therefore, Hungary represents in the international space that the European Union must finally wake up. On 16 September, EU prime ministers will meet in Bratislava. The Bratislava summit is important because the EU's prime ministers should be here, and here they must come up with proposals on how to change the European Union. Our proposal is based on solid pillars. Firstly, because the EU is based on the Member States and not on the Brussels institutions, Europe must be strengthened at the level of the Member States. The Hungarian proposal will therefore be about returning to the concept of a Europe of Nations in Bratislava. We also say that Europe must also be strengthened economically. The Union's economic competitiveness has fallen enormously at global level. Let us remember that, until before the 2008 crisis, the European Union's share of the world's total production was about 30 percent, it has fallen to 22.5 percent today and not a decade has passed. We also say that Europe must regain its competitiveness. This is the position of the Visegrád Four. It is worth noting that today the citizens of the Hungarian and Polish nations believe most in the European Union. These countries have the highest support for EU membership. For example, the Finns, the Danes, the Austrians, or the Germans are much more negative than we are. We're not English, either. We don't want to quit, we want to fix what we have and what's important to us. The time has also come for us to seriously consider setting up a European army. Hungary supports this idea. I can tell you that I will also act against naive and dangerous immigration policy in Bratislava, and instead I will propose a realistic, reality-based, strong, self-defense migrant policy. Ladies and Gentlemen, Looks like we can't waste any more time. Everyone can see that Europe is hit by an unprecedented wave of migration. The policy that Brussels is pursuing will lead to a civilisational disaster. The nature of the civilisational disaster is such that it does not happen overnight, but it is moving slowly but inexorably, as fertility differences and new waves of migration change the composition and culture of the European population. You tend to take your eyes off the historical and civilization horizon, because you have enough problems here in the present and in everyday life. And everyday life constantly adapts, adjusts and accepts, that is its nature - and in the end it doesn't recognize its own world. Dear House, We can lose our European values and what we are as frogs are boiled in slowly boiling water. Quite simply, there will be more and more Muslims, and Europe will no longer be recognized. If we are not able to change now, then it is sufficient, if you like, with mathematical precision - because only mathematical operations need to be done - we can tell what the cities of Europe will be like in two to three decades' time. Your Honour, Mr. President. Please, no one has any doubt, the migratory pressure will increase. We all want to believe in the opposite, but this would only be a continuation of the naive policy that has gotten us into trouble. What we've seen so far from migration was just the warm-up circles, the real match is still ahead of us. In the Middle East outside Syria and in subSaharan Africa, there are many and growing numbers of young people who will not be able to be employed, fed and fed by the infirmary economy and the poorly-led states in which they will live. I would like to remind you that today, some 3 billion people on Earth live on less than two dollars a day. To increase migratory pressure, our honourable House, we do not need war. 2050 is a reasonable distance, 34 years; many of us hope to see that world with our own eyes. In 2050, Egypt's population will grow from today's 90 million to 138 million, Nigeria's population from 186 million to 390 million, Uganda's population from today's 38 million to 93 million, Ethiopia's population will double from 102 million to 228 million. [[13.40]] And since the key states of North Africa are unable or unwilling to limit their access to their territory today, Europe can expect more people knocking at its gates in the coming decades. Ladies and Gentlemen, It's time for straight talk. The situation is that not all countries can be members of the European Union, and not all people in the world have to become EU citizens just because they want to. It is true that, despite all our internal problems and problems, Europe remains a wonderful place and good life in it. And the bureaucrats in Brussels give the impression that this good life is simply available, and this is where it needs to be. And if we encourage him, or even let him, these vast masses of people will come here. Our own determination, dear House, but don't forget that migrants themselves are victims of victims, local conflicts and a policy of false promises. Therefore, emotionally and morally, we are not in a simple situation. Civilization differences mean that we are afraid of a flood of migrants, but we also feel sorry for those who hesitate from a humanitarian point of view. There is no stone in our hearts, but Europe's immigration policy must also be put to an end. So we must respond to this challenge that is both moral and reasonable. I am convinced that our answer, the Hungarian answer, is like this. Hungarian politics is also a morally sound policy. I can put it this way: help must be brought there and not trouble brought here. Common sense demands... [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] Common sense demands that we change today's immigration policy. The quota is broken, we need the fence, we need the external borders, we need the protected areas outside the European Union. We have to decide who to let in and who not to. But who's to decide? Brussels or the nations? And, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is how we have come to the meaning and purpose of the political task of the autumn, the quota referendum. I believe that the European Union's daily disintegration can be prevented by curbing illegal immigration. If we succeed, we get rid of a danger, restore our capacity to act, and regain the confidence of our citizens. As a first step, we want to change the decisions already taken by the Brussels Commission with the quota vote. The truth is that the Commission has made its own decisions. They were summarised and made public in writing. Now I won't mention all eight, just two of them. The first is to put in place an automatic migrant distribution mechanism without an upper limit, in which the institutions of the European Union decide to host immigrants on the basis of a mathematical formula, and there is nothing to do with this decision either by the governments of the nation states or by you Parliamentaries. The second thing I see as particularly dangerous is that they want to ease the process of family reunification, which is not too difficult so far. But, dear fellow Members, this is not enough for Brussels. They're planning a ruse in Brussels. If they fail to cope with the individual nation states, they will manage the left-wing cities to take in the migrants. If they do not manage with Hungary and Budapest, they will be sold down with Zuglo, Salgótarján or Szeged. This was announced by the President of the European Parliament. Now it will decide whether or not there will be, and if so, where migrant colonies will be. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Shame on you!]] Therefore, I advise left-handed settlements [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I want you to be on the lookout, and I want you to go vote even more on October 2nd. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP, among them: Shame! He's lying. Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Whoever lies is also a thief.]] I would suggest that anyone who does not like what I am saying should not reproach me, but read the statement made by President Schulz, the left-wing President of the European Parliament, who said that they would agree with the cities, the left-wing cities, if the countries did not accept their decisions. That is what the left-wing President of the European Parliament said. I, honourable socialist Members, cannot help but object to this. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is appropriate to understand the fears of the leaders of local authorities. In fact, the referendum of 2 October is not only a national referendum, but also 3200 local referendums. We see migrants being relocated in European countries, such as Germany. I therefore draw Hungary's attention to the fact that Brussels' plan threatens not only the country, but also the settlements. This is not an abstract, abstract threat, the quota is not an abstract and abstract thing, but it is very specific. It threatens everyone from the largest cities to the smallest settlements. So I'm asking the settlements to defend themselves. Ladies and Gentlemen, The aim of the referendum is therefore to protect Hungary. We can be proud that we are the only European country where people can express their views in a referendum. You see, the referendum is a national matter. There is no right or left here, there is only Hungarian people and there is a Hungarian future here. No party business, just a national matter over parties. We've worked a lot and fought a lot. We finally have a future again. I ask you not to risk the future of Hungary. Thank you for your attention. [[A long applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-09-12-2	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your speech. I would like to inform my fellow Members of the otherwise well-known fact that if Prime Minister's speech goes beyond the 20-minute time frame, then the groups have 8-8 minutes to answer. This just happened. So I'm gonna give the floor to all the fellow faction representatives in an eight-minute time frame. First, Mr. Bernadett Wind... excuse me, Congressman Bertalan Tóth. [[Dr. Bertalan Tóth: Here, Mr. President, thank you very much.]]
u2016-09-12-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, From the speech we have just heard, it is quite clear to me that we live in two different countries. [[Dr. Zsolt Semjén: That's right.]] The report on the results shows one aspect that you are constantly proclaiming, but the reality is not what Prime Minister has said here in recent minutes. The reality is that four million people live under the minimum living. It also shows that you are following a social philosophy with which we absolutely cannot identify. Selected layers, selected friends who benefit from your tax system, benefit from your support system, and benefit from EU support, while millions of people are living below minimum living standards, and have no access to the goods that come from what Prime Minister has said here in relation to economic growth. But I have a few comments on this. [[13.50]] In the case of the labour market phenomenon, Prime Minister, you forgot to talk about hundreds of thousands of people working abroad, including them, and hundreds of thousands of people working in public work, which, let's face it, is not for real work, but for many people in a poverty circle, and for many young people to be driven away from Hungary. Prime Minister! I don't understand why you can be proud of having over a hundred thousand vacant jobs. I don't think it's pride, I think it's a shame. This is the failure of your education policy and the failure of what you call an employment policy, that hundreds of thousands of Hungarian professionals, young people, leave this country. You're talking about wage increases, while we know that despite the gross increase in the minimum wage, you've taxed it, so you're hardly taking more home on a net basis than the minimum wage. [[John Lazarus: That is not true!]] You are extremely proud of the reduction of the rent, while everyone is already talking about how cheap world market prices could make energy in Hungary cheaper, cheaper than what you are protecting. You have introduced a new tax that applies to petrol and gas oil: if oil prices fall, fuel prices will increase in Hungary. The world has never seen anything like it! This money should be there in households, yes, support the legislative proposals that we have already tabled in this regard. You're proud of the Olympians, and so are we, and from here, we congratulate our Olympians. But what about paralympics, what about their benefits? It wasn't mentioned again. They get half a medal and a result, like healthy olympics. It's a shame, too. We didn't mention that. He was talking about economic competitiveness, Prime Minister, although we can see that the surrounding countries are leaving us behind from a competitive point of view. You enumerate us on the political stage in a V4 cooperation, but we should be ashamed at the economic level: our results are much worse. With regard to your sentences on Europe and European Union policy, I would like to describe it as an expression of vile lies, Prime Minister. He is talking about a one-year proposal that 95 percent of Parliament has not supported here. In the yellow flat procedure, 95 percent of this Parliament, the Members sitting here, voted in favour, so it presented the yellow paper to the Commission, and it knows very well that the Commission cannot make a decision on its own. However, when the closing declaration was signed on the fixed quota of nearly 1300 people, this issue did not bother him so much. And he doesn't talk about it... - he talks about the mayors on the left, but he doesn't talk about both Juncker, President of the European Commission and the German Chancellor, Mrs Merkel, who is extremely critical of you, sitting in your party family. What are you talking about when you come together in Europe, in the European People's Party, why are you not convinced of your useful policy? And, you know, Prime Minister, what you've said to me so far about the decline of the Western world, about the fall of the European Union, about the crisis of the leaders of the European Union, is a short story or perhaps a joke story that many people know, namely, when the one-time man sits by the campfire on the riverbank and barbecues the miracle goldfish. One of his friends comes up to him and says, "Well, what about the three wishes?" And the one-time guy says, "Yeah, I've had that." [[Zoltán Balog: Was that the joke?]] Well, Prime Minister, you have the exact same attitude to the European Union, that's exactly how you feel. [[Moore, there's a clear line from the Fidesz. L. Simon László: That was a socialist joke.]] To our main allies, because, Prime Minister... [[There's a constant murmur from the Fidesz ranks.]] - because, Prime Minister, you have begun to fry the goldfish, and for you, not for your stooge's gasman, not for your stooge's tightrope friend, and your own-legged family members, the European Union has already fulfilled its wishes. Because let us not forget that the tax forints thrown together by taxpayers in the Western European countries have indeed gone to realize their dreams. It's a small railway, empires, and let's face it, this money is being stolen by Rolands of Mengy and Voldemorts of Fidesz, but I can see that we can welcome you here, Congressman. And let's face it, fellow Members, that without EU membership, it would not have been worth the 3,500 economic immigrants in Hungary buying settlement bonds, including Russian, Syrian, Afghan and Iranian economic immigrants, to whom you sold them for billions of dollars. In addition, the hundred billion-dollar benefit of Fidesz placements sold for money came not to the state register, but to the pockets of businessmen close to you, offshore companies. If the Fidesz government were to pursue this business policy at the Turkish-Syrian border or the Libyan border, this would be a net trafficking of human beings. This is completely legal in Hungary. And Prime Minister knows that this world is going to end sooner or later, which is why he's going to meet him, so he's going to start baking the goldfish, which means he's going to disintegrate the Union from the inside. This, fellow Members, may be in the interests of other countries, such as Russia, but certainly not in the interests of Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, A successful and strong European Union is in Hungary's interest. It is in Hungary's interest to take the refugee crisis seriously, but to seek a common solution at European level. In the refugee crisis caused by wars in the world, Europe is protected not by hatred but by responsible cooperation. The European Community is not an obstacle to your claim, but a potential and only solution to the effective management of the refugee crisis. Everyone knows that neither the Hungarian referendum - and you have acknowledged it - nor the specialistic policy will solve the refugee crisis. The Socialist Party is in favour of common solutions. It believes in common border protection, common asylum procedures, where the aspects of control, legality and humanity must prevail at the same time. Ladies and gentlemen, Fidesz spends more than 10 billion forints on a false referendum campaign, which is why we reject this, the incitement of hatred and fear. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] We call on our supporters: do not participate, stay at home and do not support the corrupt and anti-Hungarian policy of the Orbán government. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-09-12-4	After a further comment... well, I was just threatening to say the first few words, and Gábor Vona, Deputy Group Leader, has already come forward. There you go. You have the floor. Then it's Erzsébet Schmuck.
u2016-09-12-5	Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, We agree that the European Union and the European Community have come to a crossroads and that there must be some sort of solution for the future. I am very pleased that, after the unread signature of the Lisbon Treaty, which, in turn, has prepared this concept of European united states, and which you and you have supported, you have finally reached the point that you have now joined us in the concept of a Europe of nations. We agree that we must take part in this debate, and that Hungary now has a duty and responsibility and responsibility in the European Union, but I think that we should also pay attention with one eye to the possibility that I think the Prime Minister had in mind, and that the representatives of Fidesz, may not be able to save Western Europe in some sense. After all, multiculturalism is a reality in Western Europe. The question is no longer whether or not to live in a multicultural society, but how to live in a multicultural society. Here in Central and Eastern Europe, we still have the opportunity to choose whether we want a multicultural society or not, and I think that we should vote for the latter, and it is possible that, because of the laws of time and history, sooner or later, countries where this question is still realistic and reasonable must stand on their own feet, and I think that the importance of the V4 will be increasingly appreciated in this respect. As far as the referendum is concerned, Prime Minister, I think - I do not want to protect the socialists, nor do I ever, nor do I think - that the kind of veiled threat that you sent or sent here to various settlements, mayors, was not entirely elegant. We are getting to the point that the one who doesn't act at the same time will get twenty migrants for the evening, and I don't think you should go down to this level, and I think that the issue is really serious, really important, and it is advisable not to lose our seriousness and our seriousness. What we agree, Prime Minister, is that the quota must be rejected by Hungary. We also agree that the idea of multicultural society in Hungary is undesirable. We also agree that the statements of certain left-wing parties and politicians on this issue are treasonable. In fact, I myself see that this behaviour of the left essentially shows that they are not only unable to win elections in 2018, but they do not really want to. What we also agree on is that on 2 October all decent, well-meaning Hungarian people who are concerned about their country and their loved ones must participate in the referendum. We have to go and vote no, and we agree on that. What we do not agree with, Prime Minister, is whether the referendum is precisely the instrument that protects Hungary most from the dangers that you have spoken about in your speech before the agenda. We don't think so. A year ago the referendum was a good idea, it was not a coincidence that Jobbik raised it, but since then a year has passed, and a lot has happened. [[14.00]] At the moment, Prime Minister, I can tell you that the referendum is an expensive and uncertain solution compared to the fundamental law amendment that we are proposing. An expensive and uncertain solution. It is not at the stake of this referendum because what Hungarians think about quotas, because we all know that the vast majority of Hungarian society rejects quotas regardless of party standing. We're aware of that. This referendum has only one stake, and that is whether it will be legally valid or not. This is the real stake in this referendum. I wish, and Jobbik wishes, that this referendum should be valid, that it should go to a number of necessary voters, that it should vote in the referendum and that the quotas should be rejected. If so, what will happen if this referendum is legally valid? What's going to happen is that we're going to need some kind of amendment of the law or fundamental law, so we're going back to the sender, exactly what we suggested this spring, and what you weren't willing to take into account is the amendment of the Fundamental Law - that is, this whole referendum affair with your campaign and billions of forints is going to go to waste. But I do wish it to be so, that this referendum should be effective and valid, because if the referendum is not valid, there will be even more trouble for us. If it will not be valid, Prime Minister, this is the referendum, because this is what happens: we will give Brussels a hand in hand. This weapon will go off backwards, the ice cream will lick back, if you like it, Brussels will have a document stating that Hungary, the Hungarian society, has not legally refused to introduce quotas. Prime Minister, this is a huge threat, and I wish it wasn't, but if it is, it will be due to your irresponsibleness. [[Intruder from Jobbik: That's right!]] You are bringing Hungary into such an uncertain, risky battle, in which we can lose, not only you, but also the whole country. You're playing gambling with this issue for party policy purposes, which the whole country may have a problem with. It's your responsibility. If that happens, and I say it again, for the third time, and God forbid it happens, but if it does, it's your loss, Prime Minister. Then don't start pointing fingers at anyone else, but then you'll take responsibility for your irresponsibleness. Your responsibility in this situation will be to resign. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]] If this referendum will not be valid on 2 October, then you will have to resign, because you have brought Hungary into a battle on the most important issue of the coming decades that you have lost - I repeat, do not do so again. But why are you taking this huge risk? The question may arise. Well, because you're running from failed government, Prime Minister, you're running into refugee policy. The theme of the migrant flood is an Arab magic carpet that pops up and flies above the clouds so that it doesn't have to see the Hungarian reality. If you're going to land with him, with this Arab magic carpet, you're going to be sweeping through the problems of education, health care, corruption. 'Cause what's real here? Prime Minister, the reality is that while you're playing Jenő Savoya in Brussels, [[Defiance from the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP.]] In the meantime, your soldiers are gonna steal the country. It's real. Muslim terrorism is a terrible threat to Hungary in terms of the future, but corruption terrorism is already the reality of the present. Your fellow Members, colleagues of the government, are constantly bombing corruption bombs on a daily basis here in Hungary. Prime Minister, you need to see this, you need to know that. And then there are two questions or two options. If you know and see this, and I can't believe you don't know or see it, then one possibility is that you can't control the runaway horses, you don't have the strength, or weak. The other option, Prime Minister, is that you can control these horses, the runaway cannons, the corruption terrorism, but that's exactly how it works for you, which means you're corrupt. So you're either weak or corrupt, Prime Minister. And then I'm right to ask you again, not for the first time, who is Lőrinc the Butcher. Your stooge? And if Mengyi Roland Voldemort, then who's Ripper Lawrence? Sauron? [[Defiance in the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP.]] We should also talk about these issues, because here, in this report, we have not heard of this issue, this problem, even though corruption is strangling Hungary, and this is one of the direct reasons why so many people migrate from Hungary. You couldn't slow this down either, and even accelerated it, and it is a shame and shame that the possibility of voting the letter was rejected in this way just before a referendum, and hundreds of thousands of Hungarians were expelled from the nation's community in the exercise of a democratic right. Prime Minister, the only way to change this problem is by raising wages: wage increases, wage increases, wage increases. This should be the most important goal for the government, that is what we should be talking about. But to do so, and to avoid having to flee into refugee policy, one of the first steps would be to find the resources for these. But as long as corruption rages like this, until corruption terrorism detonates bombs on a daily basis, we will not do so, because the sources of the wage increase will be removed from Hungary by brother-in-laws, dudes, buddies and stromes. Prime Minister, please talk about this. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-12-6	I give the floor to Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet, head of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2016-09-12-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Prime Minister, We see another Hungary. It is no exaggeration to say that Hungary's biggest problem is poverty and the division of society. In recent years, social fragmentation has accelerated, income inequalities have increased. The promise of belonging to the middle class was spectacularly failed. Instead of catching up with the poor, we are witnessing the lower middle class slipping down. There's a handful of rich people with an increasing amount of income and wealth in their hands, and more and more poor people who have no chance of holding back. It's a thin line that separates the barely living from the total downtrodden. Since the change of regime, Hungarian society has not been as uneven as it is today. After 2010, the Fidesz government consciously built its policy on how to push the lower middle class under water as much as possible and how to transfer as much income as possible to the benefit of richer, more affluent layers. Government measures in recent years, minimum wage taxation, tax credits, the freezing of public sector wages, VAT increases, passed-on taxes and top-level measures have opened up huge social scissors. Between 2009 and 2012, the proportion of people at the bottom of society increased from 7.6 percent to 9.2 percent, and part of those in the lower middle class sank into poverty. Society is even more divided, the top layer and the bottom layer have increased. Today, according to KSH's official poverty statistics, nearly a third of society lives in poverty or social exclusion, the fifth highest rate in the European Union. About one and a half million people live in Hungary today in income poverty, or income below HUF 70,000. 40.5 percent of the Hungarian population lives below the minimum living age, which is an income below HUF 88,000 per person, i.e. they cannot provide themselves with the standard of living required for a modest living. This is more than 4 million people, with an upward trend. Mr. Prime Minister, It is undisputed that migration is one of the world's biggest challenges today, but it must be pointed out that the growing environmental crisis is also a serious challenge. What we see is that in managing migration, the government only treats the window policy in an important, small-minded and short-term political interest. If that were not the case, he wouldn't have initiated this stupid poster campaign in society, which only aroused anger and hatred. We are aware, Prime Minister, that the migration crisis is indeed a major challenge throughout Europe, and there is no debate. The LMP considers it a serious problem that, in recent years, the Union has not come any closer to dealing with the migration crisis in a lasting and reassuring way, and in Brussels, the Hungarian government has a responsibility, and it cannot be pointed only at Brussels. Even Prime Minister doesn't dare to say the real problems. In order to solve the refugee crisis, it is necessary to put an end to the excessively unequal allocation of resources, to limit global capitalism, and not just to wage a fake fight against the environmental crisis, climate change. Today, we are making a distinction between war conflicts, refugees from violence and economic immigrants, but even international law does not recognise the concept of environmental refugees, even though as global warming progresses, this will be the deepest reason for growing population movements in our time. Water scarcity, drought, sea level rise, destruction of agricultural land, extreme weather conditions in the coming decades can cause up to 1 billion people to run the ground, even though millions are forced to leave their homes today. This flood of refugees will not be stopped by any fence. We know that there is a need for immediate action, and therefore the LMP has already stressed the need to implement common European border protection as soon as possible and to establish an infrastructure capable of distinguishing those fleeing war from those who come to the Union and from those who come to the Union in the hope of a better life. In our view, all European states must play a role in supporting those fleeing from war, but in the case of economic immigrants, each nation state must decide or have the right to decide who it wants to adopt. We see that the Hungarian government uses this topic primarily for political gain; if it had the opportunity, the referendum campaign would last forever, the lying and fear-promoting posters should never get off the street, and the public could still show photos of chaotic refugee camps in the years to come. [[14.10]] You're misleading people. While the posters are alarmed by the instigation of a small town of alien refugees, for good money, they sold settlement bonds to three small towns of alien cultures, according to the news, without any special security checks. Because Fidesz is only interested in the safety of Hungarian people as long as it has no financial interest in the opposite. [[A statement from the opposition: That's right!]] We find that they're willing to do anything for money. It's a real hoax for people. Part of this is the current referendum. While the LMP agrees that the issue of migration must be decided in the competence of a nation state, this referendum, Mr Prime Minister, is not about that, and you have a great responsibility in that regard. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-09-12-8	It is now up to the leader of the Fidesz Group, Mr Lajos Kósa. Here you go.
u2016-09-12-9	Mr. President. Dear House, Listening to the comments of my fellow group leaders, there were many interesting thoughts that were shared here. I sincerely congratulate you on the appointment of Erzsébet Schmuck's group leaders, but I can't really relate to the situation of a live parliamentary debate here, the Prime Minister made a presentation, and my fellow Member stood up and read a pre-written text. [[Dóra Dúró: You've never done this before!]] Obviously not with the intention of responding to what has been said on this issue. I would just like to suggest one thing to your attention: if you really think it is important for the European Union and Hungary to prepare for a large-scale migrant flood, which could occur due to various environmental and other disasters, then you must take the position of Bernadett Szél, who said this summer that he would vote no in the referendum, but only think about whether or not to go. Mr. President. It is clear that, although very much has happened in the summer, migration and the political positions on it have been the most important. In this regard, the Hungarian Government and Fidesz have, of course, received many criticisms, but it must be rejected that the allegations that we have made would be infuriating or inciting. First of all, it's especially charming when the socialists say it for the hate campaign. I think it's hate-hating. Let us not forget that among the socialists is the poster face, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, who is the most hateful person ever. [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: Yes!]] The most primitive campaign had a campaign face, until 5 December 2004. And instead of apologizing to the Hungarians for inciting me against a neighboring people, which is actually a classified case of incitement, making Hungarian-Romanian relations more difficult, by the way, but also included in the parliamentary horseshoe - it is true that it was only on a list, because it would have been difficult to solve this in private. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] - and by doing so, they gave civil rights and parliamentary pedestals to incitement and hatred. What Bertalan Tóth said about the fact that Fidesz only favours those close to it with its social and economic policy is actually good news, since even Eurostat claimed that 95 percent of the Hungarian population is in a better position in the current economic situation than in 2010 - that means that Bertalan Tóth himself acknowledged that the vast majority of the country is more close to Fidesz than the socialists. I would also like to draw everyone's attention to the fact that there is an old Greek proverb, and it kind of sounds like you shouldn't curse the mirror if your face is crooked. Socialists don't like to meet reality and ask for reality. Let me quote the statement made by the President of the European Parliament, Martin Schulz: there are also settlements in Hungary where refugees are not rejected. For example, Szeged [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] It's a dedicated left-wing city, where any refugee can be sent. Tell me how to understand this! Since you have not protested, you have not demanded the resignation or withdrawal of this rude sentence, and the rest of it cannot be appreciated in any other way than that you actually agree with it from the nail to the end, and willkommen political will be able to practice it here in Szeged. [[Defiance.]] according to the guidance of their fellow Germans. But that's what Martin Schulz said, that's for sure. [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: What kind of genre is this?]] Mr. President. Dear House, Of course, the Fidesz faction clearly stands for what the Prime Minister has once again said to you: that it is not the problem that must be brought to Europe, but the need to bring help there. And the strange thing is that many people in the Hungarian Parliament say that - but they just say it. Because when Fidesz supports actions that would bring help there, they won't vote for it. This is hypocrisy, which is also outrageous and a sin against those unfortunates whom we would like to help. The Hungarian government has decided on a number of programmes in its budget: hospital building, school building in the areas where these people come from, the Hungarian Defence Office, with the support of the majority of the Hungarian Parliament's pro-government, plays a role in many places far more than other countries where there are war conflicts - but you just tell us to create peace, but when it is necessary to do it, they do not press a button! It wouldn't be difficult to press a button, but they don't do it; they just roll their eyes like real Pharisees, so it's absolutely incredible what they're saying that you want to take help where these people come from, because you don't have to talk about it, so you have to do it. And the Hungarian government cooperates with the services that otherwise organise and implement this assistance. Special thanks to the Hungarian charity services and the Maltese who took the lead in this. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Because, of course, it's easy to talk, but it's not hard to act when you're serious about what you're saying. Mr. President. Dear House, The European Union is going through a very difficult time, it is true, and the Prime Minister's words, which described this phenomenon, are absolutely correct, and we actually accept what he says, although we have some important comments. Let's not throw up on Mr. Juncker - of course! But we can make a few comments. ? How to interpret the President of the European Commission, who has literally said the following, as guardian of the treaty, in order to ensure that legality is in order in Europe: France has not, for years, complied with the standards on budget deficits, nor will it, since they are French. How to explain that we, who are much closer to the local government world, have often seen a settlement ask whether they want to live together or not, but when some people say that we do not want to share with you, the mayor will at least resign - this is not the custom of the President of the European Commission. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] But with all due respect, we are asking Brussels and the President to change their policy. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-12-10	In the series of responses, I give the floor to Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the Group, representing the Christian Democratic People's Party. Here you go.
u2016-09-12-11	Mr President, Prime Minister! Fellow Members! I have also listened to the comments of my fellow opposition group leaders, although I must say that many arguments and ideas that have been said have already been born in the corridor from the journalists on the left. [[14.20]] I'm not saying they've synchronized their thoughts, but that's a lovely harmony, after all. But I'm not... [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: Like you and Zsolt Bayer.]] However, I do not wish to provoke a debate today, but rather to talk about a different issue, a much different one, and to add a few points to Prime Minister's comments on migration in particular. And perhaps they will accept that as a Christian Democrat, I want to look to the bottom and root of the values that make Europe Europe. The first question is what is the threat of the migrant invasion. We could say that all that we have achieved in employment, in wage growth, in our overall security, but I would rather remain in value. The values of the Christian and Jewish religion in Europe - I go even further - are not merely the property of religious people. All Europeans - just because of the roots - do not want to confess, even if they live in a secularized world. Allow me to point to three of these values. Respect for human life and dignity. Where does this come from in these two religions? If we go back in creation history, we see that the Creator created man in his image and likeness. There is no greater motive for dignity. But respect for life also appears in these religions, for it honors life from conception to natural death. And today, it appears in our society and in this matter that we respect, protect, and view our own lives and the other's lives as inviolable. And if we have this idea and this practice, then of course we can't accept a culture that doesn't respect life. Another of these values is freedom. I believe that when we value individual freedom as one of the most secure signs of man's dignity, we can demand that everyone respect our free choice, just as we must respect the other man's free choice. This means some difference in society, but it doesn't mean multiculturalism, because we make decisions within the same culture, which, if we don't like it, must be accepted, and this diversity fits into European culture. In fact, I would add that if a man from a foreign culture accepts our laws, customs, and way of life, then that is okay, because there are Arab doctors and others living here among us. The crowd, which is unable to integrate, is a problem. The third thing I would draw your attention to is that we imagine human life in a community. The individual also evolves and evolves in the community and finds himself. Individualism does not know the value of communities, has nothing to say about the family, the church, the nation, but not even about the community. This community cannot be multicultural, as its values must be shared. As I mentioned earlier, it may be diverse, but within culture. Finally, there is a question of what we need to do in this situation. Obviously, we all accept and represent the need for self-defense, and that is what border protection means. This self-defense must be effective, but humane. This has already been mentioned today, and I would like to highlight this. The government has entered into a contract with the charities who do their job at the border or elsewhere. But protecting the persecuted in their own country is an important task. At a time when the military is present in 13 countries with a thousand people, it is working to establish order there. Peace is a condition of the human life that we want to help those living there. But it is not only order and peace that is important, but the strengthening of the communities persecuted there. It is natural for us Europeans to think of the protection of Christian communities living there, since these Christian communities are not settled there. They lived there before other cultures. We're trying to create their protection with concrete help. In Iraq, Syria, we are working on the establishment of a hospital, a school that will raise thousands of children. There is also a church collection, so it is the donations of the voluntarily offered Hungarian people. That's what the government added. And, of course, it is the supportive government force in the framework of an independent Deputy State Secretary, which has its own framework, with which it can do so. Now you can ask me why we only want to help Christians there. I have said it many times, and I must say again that we are responsible for everyone, because in a globalizing world, all people are responsible for all people, but we still have a responsibility in concentric circles. Deep down, there are those closest to us: families, our children, the nation, Europe, and finally all people. We must abide by this, and if we do so, the self-defense aspect will come true, and the humanity of this, the help of the other man, especially the man in his country, will be realized, and we will contribute to finding their prosperity in their homeland, in relation to our own strength. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-09-12-12	Thank the representatives of the factions for their comments. I will now return the floor to the Prime Minister in return.
u2016-09-12-13	It's more of a courtesy, Mr President, because I believe that everything has been said that has to be said. Hungary has the best economic data for 25 years. Only people driven by malicious political intentions can say that Hungary is not developing. Those who claim that wages don't grow, I think they know they're lying. Those who claim that we have failed to achieve results in reducing unemployment know precisely that what they are saying is not true. There's no point in participating in a debate like this. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: Everyone on the highway is garbage!]] However, it has also been said that we are preparing for a referendum, so if you'll excuse me, not taking up your time, I'm simply answering the questions out of courtesy. I don't think I can give you any new arguments. But there are some interesting things that might be worth mentioning in the side water of the referendum. First of all, I would like to say to the head of the LMP faction that you should look at the data and get to know the reality. The situation appears to be one of the smallest social and income differences in Hungary within the European Union. We're counting on the lower third. The European Union, which you keep talking about as a demigod, has created a much wider world of economic and financial differences than what is here in Hungary. [[Intercoms from the benches of Fidesz: That's right! Ágnes Kunhalmi: This was before 2010!]] I just want to add that to reality. With the suggestion that our governance, if I understand correctly - we have a responsibility here - we still haven't solved the climate crisis in the sixth year of our governance - I can't do much with that. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] We are happy to participate in debates on this. However, there is also a sentence that I consider dangerous, and I would like to ask the Member to withdraw. [[14.30]] So I would strongly ask you not to spread the spirit of defetism in a country preparing to defend itself. To say that the masses of migration cannot be stopped is to surrender. Please don't say that. Then why are we fighting, why are we building a fence, why are we making laws, why do we want to defend ourselves if we're supposed to not be able to? ! I'd like to ask you specifically if you're serious about something else, of course, but if you're just saying it for tactical reasons, don't do that. I have just said that for many decades we have to fight a great battle, in order to reconcile sensitive moral and rational aspects. In this world ahead of us, the sentence that it doesn't make sense to defend itself, I have to say that it has a great deal of damage. Therefore, I respectfully ask the LMP not to spread this in the country, but to help us in the opposite way. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] What we're trying to say is that it does make sense, and it can be stopped. If the United States succeeds in stopping what it stops at its southern borders, then so will we. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: But it doesn't work!]] You just have to learn from it and use the tools in the way that morals, reason and technical progress make it possible. And we will defend ourselves, LMPs, even though they tell us to put the country down, we will not put it down, because if we really can't do anything, then let's face it, in ten years' time, the question that the President of Jobbik has raised about what country we will be, whether we will be multicultural or not, is the answer. And then, I think another constitution, another parliament, but I would add that we may need another people. And as I see it, some people are working on it, but this will come up in another parliamentary debate. I'm sure you didn't miss one of the important events of the summer when documents that seemed credible revealed who, how and how civil society organisations that organise refugee flows are financed, which stimulates migration. Perhaps Parliament could also address this issue, because it affects Hungary's most fundamental national security interests. [[John Lazarus: That's right!]] I do not know what to say, honourable Member, that you mention on the same page the people buying 300,000 euros of sovereign debt in Hungary with the Röszke rioters and the German assassins, because you belong to the same cultural circle. That's such a high point of view that I can't rise to. [[Defiance from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] As far as the President of Jobbik's comment is concerned: we will fight the corruption matches here, I just want to say that this is a nice communist tradition, Jobbik is full of corruption cases, and then it attacks. It's an old tactic, you have to defend yourself by attacking a man on the charge of the other person in which he is himself. You're full of corruption cases, I don't want to distract the debate right now, but a well-known tax fraud is leading your group, and I can, and I will, if I'm forced to do so. [[Delight and applause in the pro-government benches.]] In any case, I can tell you that corruption must be persecuted by the authorities, there is zero tolerance, there must be action against everyone, and if you see something like that, then do it. If you don't start a case like this - so that I can go down on my hands and knees for a moment like you - then you're either a liar or an accomplice. So I suggest that if you are aware of any matters, feel free to contact the Hungarian authorities and initiate the necessary procedures. However, what is perhaps more important is the thing about the referendum. This is important because it highlights the differences in experience between the factions in the Hungarian Parliament, no matter what political past they have. I understand what you're saying, it's a very clear elitist point of view: if there's a very serious matter, whether it's a historical matter, and there's enough of us in Parliament, we can change constitutions and make laws, then let's leave the people out of this. [[Gábor Vona: Let's save the billions!]] I understand that way of thinking, it makes sense. But we come from a different tradition, we've learned it for the past 36 years. [[Dóra Dúró: Liberal International!]] Let me finish! So it is important to establish consensus points in one case in the nation. It's important. [[Interpreting from the ranks of the MSZP: But it is unconstitutional!]] We wouldn't have had a chance during the change of regime - I wouldn't have listed the forces at the time - if we hadn't been able to involve the people in this; we wouldn't have had a chance to protect free education and health if we hadn't included this people in 2008; and I can safely say to you that, although it seemed a failure in 2004, we wouldn't have been able to create a double citizenship law on the unification of nations in 2010, if we hadn't had the moral basis to say that in 2004 the majority of the Hungarians who left said yes to having a national union. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: That's right! Applause from the pro-government benches.]] If that doesn't happen, it can't happen. Therefore, the argument that you're making is logical, but I think it grows out of a different tradition than our democratic tradition and our desire to involve people in politics. Therefore, the referendum must be once again marked as important, and a point of agreement is needed. Those who say that there is no public-law consequence of this decision, I think they know that they are not telling the truth, there are very serious consequences, and on this we will be able to take on the conflicts in Brussels, which will indeed have serious public-law consequences, and not just any questions. And, of course, I do not have a bad opinion - perhaps you will forgive me from your own initiative - about the abilities of the Hungarian government and even about the abilities of the Hungarian Parliament, but believe me, this battle cannot be won without the people. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Beautiful!]] We need them, we need them involved, and in democracy, there is only one option that is called a referendum. [[Zoltán Grimlock: What about the sale of land? A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] That's why I'm asking everyone to come and help me with this goal. My fellow Member, Bertalan Tóth, has also said a few things that I would like to answer briefly. I can't interpret what you're saying differently than that now, on a regular and recurring basis, the socialists are attacking workers and public workers abroad - why are they doing this? Why do people who for some reason - probably as many people, for so many reasons - choose to work abroad? [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: For they cannot live here!]] Why are you attacking them? Why do they attack people who, instead of waiting for social assistance at home or living on their neighbors' necks, decide to go out and do community service in the morning? [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: What is it?]] Why should these people be harmed and classified as you extract them from those who do honest work in Hungary? [[Zoltán Grimlock: They should be paid honestly, man!]] They belong to the nation, they are part of the Hungarian economy, and let us be glad that they are willing to work! [[Zoltán Pride: They should be paid!]] Rather than doing what you do, we should acknowledge their performance by regularly derating these people. It must be said that I must reject this position not only for democratic reasons but also on the basis of reason, the Hungarian Government protects workers abroad and protects public workers [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] If necessary, it is the same with regard to the socialists. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] Now, as I understand it, you have come up with the witty response that we have here - Mr Lajos Kósa, Head of Group, and myself - to the fact that one of the leaders of the European Socialists, who is also the President of the European Parliament, has turned to the left-wing cities to accept migrants, and we have considered this to be your responsibility, too, we believe, because they do not object, and that what you say in your opinion of this quoted European socialist leader coincides by chance, you replied that it is good, but then we bear the responsibility for Merkel and Juncker - I understood correctly, didn't you? - because they belong to the European People's Party. Can't you see we're fighting? [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches. Dr. Bertalan Tóth: No. Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Steer, don't fight!]] Have you not noticed that there is a debate that cuts through traditional party division in Europe? Didn't you realize that the Germans at home are saying that we're gonna get rid of those who came in and spread it around Europe, and we're gonna say that's out of the question? ! Didn't you notice that? Is it possible that someone doesn't notice? [[Delight and applause in the pro-government benches.]] So I think that, in this context, backing up European politicians in support of refugees does not seem to be sporty. Now let's look at the facts. I thought earlier - I apologize for that - that you were lying or fabulous. But no, it's not that. It's that he doesn't know what he's saying. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] This is a very important difference, because there are other consequences of recompense in politics. What's this about? You claim that there is no decision that should be changed by referendum. You're wrong! We're not talking about last fall, what you're talking about, you're missing a pamphlet, we're not talking about fall 2015 decisions anymore, Mr. Honourable Group Leader. They made decisions in May 2016, didn't the socialists notice? [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: No!]] Have you not noticed that the European Commission has taken decisions to manage inflows with a general distribution quota without any upper limit? Have you not noticed that there is a decision about this? And that's the decision of the bureaucrats. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Why are you in the Council? And a majority in Parliament?]] and what we have to do after the European Union process is a long decision-making process to somehow stop and change it? We are asking people to help us gather partners in Brussels and change the Commission's decision. [[Zoltán Pride: Because this is the way of the Council! And there's you! And Parliament!]] Don't you know about the Commission's decisions? Well, how do you guys take part in a debate of that weight? I'm sorry. ! [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] Ladies and Gentlemen, I think it's irresponsible. [[14.40]] Dear Chief of Staff, Finally, there is something else I would like to answer. He said an important sentence when he said that we will not solve the migrant crisis on a national basis, there are only common solutions. One of us slept through the last year, too. [[Defiance in the pro-government ranks.]] I see the reverse: there is no common solution [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Because you prevented it!]] However, there is a Hungarian solution, which works. If there was no Hungarian solution and there was no fence, it would be what it was a year ago in Hungary: anyone who wanted would come through without obstacles. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: 250,000 people have been released, Prime Minister.]] Well, it's a reverse. The national solutions are working, and I would like to ask the LMPs not to talk us out of this, and we also have large reserves, technical and physical resources and legal reserves for defence, which must be mobilised. We can wait for international solutions - so we waited three months once! Don't forget how we ended up in the summer of 2015. We came to the conclusion that, when we suggested at the European Council that there would be trouble, it was said that there would be a common solution within three months. We waited three months for a common European solution - and nothing happened. And in the summer, what happened in Hungary happened. [[Agnes Kunhalmi's intervention.]] That's why the fence building had to be ordered. Because if there were a common European solution and the Greeks were to defend their own borders and fulfil their obligation under European treaties, then we should not have built a fence. The fence is evidence, it is attacked from Brussels, it is proof of helplessness in Brussels, it is about the fact that there is no international solution, it is only talk, it is a fine, elegant European blah, but action and real medicine and strength are only on a national basis. Isn't that clear to everyone in this room, ladies and gentlemen? [[Agnes Kunhalmi: No, because it is not!]] Therefore, to say that we should sit back where we were in the spring of 2015 and wait for a European solution, because we cannot defend ourselves, that is to promote the position of allowing migrants into Hungary. The truth is, I have nothing else to say - it may not be your intention - but if the Government of Hungary were to accept what they are proposing for Hungary, it would mean that Hungary would be the target of migrants again, they would move in here without obstacles, and we do not want that. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: No one wanted to stay here!]] Thank you for your attention. [[A long applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2016-09-12-14	Ladies and gentlemen, We are now making comments before the agenda announced by the factions after a one-minute technical break. So I would very much like to ask my fellow Members, who had more important things to do outside the hall, to leave the Chamber very quickly and, if possible, quietly. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél applied for a pre-meeting speech on behalf of the LMP:. Where did the Hungarian workers go? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman. Here you go.
u2016-09-12-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, One of Hungary's biggest challenges has been mentioned very little today, so I would like to do so just for the sake of completeness. That's the problem with emigration. I do not know if you have noticed, fellow Members of the Government, that the second largest Hungarian city on Earth at the moment is London, and this is a fact on which I think the Hungarian Parliament has to work a lot to change. The clear reason for emigration is the poor domestic wage situation, namely that most Hungarians cannot make a living from the wages they receive. The Prime Minister has just said that we need points at which the nation meets. I think we have come to a point like this: let it be a point in Hungary that the Hungarian citizen who works eight hours with honor must be able to make a living on his wages! Let this be the national minimum that the Hungarian government will vote for! [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Instead, during the summer, we saw zealous ideas on the part of the government about what they would do to remedy the huge shortage of workers. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán on Radio Kossuth, as I understand it, named the exit from the demographic problem as an opportunity to break out. I respectfully report to you, and I agree that we must get out of the demographic crisis, but that is at least 18 years before it happens. So even if you were just about to take the magical measures that LMP has been fighting for for for years now, we'd still have to wait for these kids to grow up and get to work. Minister Mihály Varga has come up with a rather shameful proposal for a solution: he said that guest workers should be invited into this country. They also counted the various employers' forums around the government's house, and they said that we needed about 250,000 such migrant workers, and they said that they should come from Mexico, Nepal, Tartars. The fact is that if guest workers are called in from a country with a lower wage grade, it is a shame, because it means that the Hungarian government cannot govern for the benefit of the Hungarian people, and on the other hand it means that the wage efforts of the workers will be broken down. The LMP cannot accept this, can not support it, and we call on Minister Mihály Varga to withdraw this statement and do his work for the Hungarian people, not for the interests of the Mexicans, the Tartars and all others. There was Minister János Lázár, who gave me a useful idea about what I said here: the unemployed must be given a job. This is correct, but we do not see the action, because Fidesz has not had a job creation programme for six years now, and there are a number of Hungarians who cannot get a job. This may not be independent of the fact that the funds of the National Employment Fund have been reduced to one third, although in this fund there are the funds that would help people looking for jobs to reach the labour market. The only useful idea also came from Mihály Varga, who said that some kind of contribution should be reduced. I respectfully tell you not to reduce some kind of contribution, but the employee's contribution, because this is what if you reduce it, then the Hungarian citizens immediately feel a kind of increase in salary in their pockets. So I would ask the Hungarian Government not to try to help employers in this neurological situation, but rather workers; this would be very important. Also, the May Other Policy has a five-point action plan, of which I would like to highlight three elements, and which if you implement, London will not be the second largest Hungarian city. The first is wage planning, which requires a tax reform. At present, Fidesz-KDNP applies a tax system in which everyone who earns under average wage suffers ill. With your taxation, the vast majority of Hungarian citizens suffer ill. On the other hand, there is a need for a social housing programme. It is not the solution that Hungarian young people want a family, want to have a job, want to do their job, and can't start because they don't have a job, or if they do, they can't make a living, and otherwise, if they want to have children, they have no place to give birth, because they don't have housing, they can't get access to it. You know, I couldn't meet a family in my country who wouldn't have lost at least one man for those reasons. I find it terrible that the masses of Hungarian women are going abroad, these women are going to have birth there, and the demographic crisis in Hungary is going to deepen, despite what the Prime Minister said that I want to improve. One more measure is needed: investing in education. The LMP would give 20 out of 100 budget forints to education [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] because the Hungarian future is not public works, not London and other cities, but we need well-paying jobs at home. I respectfully ask you to steer in this direction.
u2016-09-12-16	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés responds to the speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-09-12-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and There was a lot of fuss on your question, but I might start with the title you gave to your question where the Hungarian workers went, and then I would like to respond to some serious remarks and serious suggestions. [[14.50]] Where did the Hungarian workers, the Hungarian workers, go? They are working, because, as you have already heard in Prime Minister's speech, there has been a significant increase in the number of people employed in Hungary, more than 600 thousand more people are working than in 2010, most of which were recruited by the competition sphere, and the Hungarian workers are working in the competitive sphere. More than 400,000 people were able to work in small, medium or larger Hungarian companies. So Hungarian workers and Hungarian workers were able to work primarily on the Hungarian labour market. Of course - we are not happy about this - they are also working abroad, we know about 100 to 120 thousand registered foreign workers working abroad for a longer or shorter period, a number that came together to double after our accession to the European Union; about half of this number came together by 2010, and then about 60 to 70 thousand people, I say: for a longer or shorter period, worked abroad. And that the Hungarian labour force situation in Hungary, in the labour market, has very, very many people offering job vacancies, looking for the worker, this is due to the sudden increase in employment, which should be welcomed and, of course, must respond to both vocational training, adult education and adult education, for which there is practice, and there is an employment policy instrument that will help us to further increase job vacancies, to find workers who will be able to enter these jobs. And the serious sentence: you said that Mihály Varga said that guest workers should be brought in from abroad. Well, I'd appreciate it if you could show me where and when that sentence came from Minister Varga's mouth. He never said that. It shows that when you are preparing to speak in Parliament, you may be able to provide uncontrolled information as a fact, or even worse, that you are distorting the facts. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right.]] I would like to remind you that there has been a proposal, a dossier, a thesis, a letter to Minister Varga by the National Association of Hungarian Industrialists, in which he suggested that we should consider bringing in from abroad workers who are willing to work in these professions in Hungary. Both Minister Lázár and Minister Mihály Varga replied that we should primarily think about Hungarian workers, help them to work, give them the opportunity, everything can come after that. So you shouldn't mix the season with the guy, Congresswoman, because what you said doesn't stand the test of reality, you didn't tell the truth. That's the simple answer to that. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Well, Fidesz is always right.]] There was also a reduction in the contribution. Yes, the government is looking at the possibility of using this tool to help encourage employment, how to remove burdens from employers and workers, but this is not a process that can be achieved overnight, from one moment to the next, because there can be serious, serious consequences for a rash move. Recall that after the 2002 change of government, Péter Medgyessy's government suddenly made a decision that did not have its cover. This means that the then government put a burden on the Hungarian budget of HUF 1000 billion a year with a single decision. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: That's why you have to pay a fee.]] So it is very easy to make irresponsible statements and statements from the opposition side, but the government must make responsible decisions for all Hungarian citizens, and this cannot be done the way you often make proposals here. By the way, real wages are rising - I suggest you look at the figures - continuously, even in what you or you have expressed as criticism; at the lowest wages, even near the minimum wage, there is a net increase in income and a net increase in wages over the past six years. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett's intervention.]] I ask you to criticise the government's employment policy work more carefully and carefully. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-12-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, from the MSZP Group entitled The beginning of the academic year and the academic year, has applied for a speech before the agenda. Dear Vice President, You have the floor, please.
u2016-09-12-19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! A opposition party thus has two options in the middle of the cycle. One of them is that he follows the path designated by the government, he criticizes it, he gives his opinion about it, and then the government actually dictates the text of the opposition. We do not want to follow this path; the aim is its own opinion, its own position and its presentation outside Parliament and Parliament. Areas that, if there is a national issue - not doubting that we have already dealt with important national issues - are this. And I also think that belonging to a party does not decide that the future of our children, the transfer and transfer of knowledge in an organised form, the issue of education is such a decisive issue. And in this area, there is neither a way nor an opportunity for a victory report like what we have heard in the last hour and a half. As a fact, it should be stated that the quality of Hungarian public education half a decade ago - or if you like it and to say political category - was higher in 2010 and better than now, six years after the adoption of their governance. You have brought bad experiments, unrealized ideas, chaos and upheaval to Hungarian public education. It is only because of the persistent work of teachers that Hungarian public education stands, because their education policy has been a failure report over the past half decade. This is intelligently acknowledged by the start of the academic year, when the practical override of their law adopted in December 2011 was made: the operation of the institution-support centre named after Klebelsberg, the poor, is a recognised failure, and its new formation is doubtful about the outcome. More importantly, how we parents, Hungarian citizens, mothers and fathers see the present and future of our children, our students. With all due respect, it is not party political bias that tells me that what they are doing to children and, in particular, to lower school students, 7-8-9-year-old Hungarian girls and little boys, is simply a horror. They're so busy, they don't want to play when they go home. A child who doesn't want to play! Please, this overload, which you did not inherit, did not fall from the sky, but you created it yourself, with a bitter heart, but you managed to screw it up, change that. I should also mention the situation that the start of the school year brings to secondary education. One of the most successful institutional forms of secondary education was vocational school. You can't understand why they beat up, beat up vocational schools. A form of school that has given both graduation and profession is now degrading the graduation level by calling it a vocational high school, and is unable to give an adequate level of profession. The form of vocational schools will be a failure and failure. Just please, by the time you see the KLIK failure, that's more than three years, which is an irreplaceable loss for children and students. Breaking up vocational schools is a professional sin. The establishment of this vocational school system can serve only one purpose: it limits access to higher education institutions, our colleges and universities. This is the wrong way. Please accept: in this parliamentary term, for the next two years, the problem of this system, the newly set up secondary education system, is its fault, but the students, the young adults who are receiving this form of education, and this knowledge will be out of their lives, will not be able to bring it back. You'll have to correct me as long as you can. Listen to us, the professional way is the right way. Thank you very much.
u2016-09-12-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, Mr Vice-President, Mr Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, replied to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-09-12-21	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Vice President, Dear House, I think the question is what the MSZP has to do with half the government cycle, an internal party policy debate, so I wouldn't comment on that, so let them decide on the internal forums of the MSZP, which you have also led. On the other hand, it was an important point for you to make about the state of the public education system in 2010 and how it is today. [[15.00]] You're saying that you're on a more secure footing than you are now, and we're saying that you're much safer in public education now than you were six years ago. What was the condition of the school system, the public education system? He had been through a huge shock in the past two or three years, as the socialists dismissed 15,000 teachers during their last term, and they were all on the street. Those who stayed there reduced their wages by 8 percent, 8 percent of all teachers' wages, and because there were fewer teachers, in many places a lock was placed on the doors of school buildings in a total of 381 places. This obviously meant hundreds of billions of HUF withdrawal - if you look at their cycle - from the system of public education. Only the taking of the 13th month's wage meant HUF 76 billion minus, which was less spent on public education than before, but there were many other factors. And how was the system of public education in 2010? Local governments, as maintainers of this system, have accumulated a debt of HUF 1200 billion in order to maintain underfunded public education institutions and schools in Hungarian, as well as social institutions and health institutions. Therefore, the system of public education was close to bankruptcy in 2010 because it generated a huge debt to the maintenance municipalities, while the performance of the students did not improve, but rather deteriorated; the proportion of public education resources was reduced by 11-17 percent in the last two to three years of the socialist government. In 2008 alone, budget expenditure on education decreased by more than 10 percent. This system was not suitable to reduce the differences within society, it was not suitable to reduce the difference that a small-town, poor urban youth would have to live against, say, a youth in Bel-Buda. Because the local authorities had a burden on children, and those who were born in the wrong places had a much lower chance of getting good knowledge, competitive knowledge, and were able to cope with it. I mean, I think we all agree here in Parliament that it is knowledge for children that is the most important tool for breaking out of poverty, the most important opportunity we can give them. So you have not been able to reduce these differences, but you have increased and children's performance has also deteriorated in different surveys. This is no wonder, for if a large number of teachers see an existential school from week to week, they have less good performance. If you see that they are making a business out of education - not primarily MSZP, the MSZP just tolerates SZDSZ doing this - and you see that some people are taking billions out of the textbook market and not taking any responsibility for the whole textbook market, then it has also reduced the quality of education. Because if we just look at the one promise they make, that if they go back, they'll restore the old textbook market, eliminate public textbook supply, and the various textbook development companies will again deliver the books to schools, obviously that would mean an immediate textbook bombing, at least 40 percent, as it would reduce the costs of families in relation to textbooks, and, moreover, bring back the unfair system that saw business in the textbook supply section of public education. After all, the company that made the greatest profit out of public education as a textbook-making company produced 6 percent of the textbooks and was able to make the most of the profits. On the other hand, what have we done? We've launched the pedagogical career. You know that every September 1 is now also a teacher's wage increase, this year as well as last year and next year; this increases the wages of teachers by one and a half times. This is also reflected in the application statistics, as much more people apply to the teaching field, i.e. many more and much better able young people can choose the teachers of the future so that they, the children of the future, can have better pedagogical conditions. This year is 38 billion forints, next year 45 billion forints plus. The institution-supporting system, i.e. the entire school network, can manage more than 104 billion HUF in the following year than we originally agreed in this year's budget. This is a very large additional resource. This makes it possible for young people to gain competitive knowledge in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-12-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Imre Vejkey, from the KDNP Group, spoke before the agenda in order to win back Europe or to defend Christian values against building a dictatorship in Brussels. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-09-12-23	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Europe is facing unprecedented migratory pressures, which are not only a deadly threat to our culture but also a significant risk to Europe's economic and social life. They need to know that modern-day migration is not an ad hoc, but a lasting phenomenon that we have to deal with in the long term. Europe's leaders have continuously and systematically wiped out Christian values over the last decades. And by means of the Juncker and the other crowned bastards of Europe, Western Europe is increasingly transforming into an ideal for desperate and adventurous people. The leaders of the European Union have placed a package of quotas on the table against common sense, which has several particularly dangerous elements. They would not only establish a mandatory procedure for the distribution of immigrants, but also impose fines on Member States that refuse compulsory resettlement. To do this, we Christian Democrats cannot assist, even if we know that the majority of immigrants are victims, victims of human smugglers, victims of their governments, and victims of Brussels politicians who have made promises that cannot and must not be kept, because then we will be doomed. And we can't take that risk. Ladies and Gentlemen, Without the protection of Jewish-Christian values, we cannot answer today's challenges properly. Over the past years, it has been pointed out that the way in which Europe is going is only increasing and that in the future the conflicts will only increase. It is necessary to return to the fundamental thesis of the founding fathers of the EU that Europe will or will not be a Christian. Ladies and Gentlemen, We Christian democrats see that the European Union cannot build its future on immigration rather than on families, as there is no less at stake than the survival of European civilisation and culture. For the reasons set out above, we are strongly opposed to the compulsory resettlement quota system. Instead of distributing immigrants, we support solutions to eliminate immigration. Ladies and Gentlemen, The European Union does not have the right to place migrants in Hungary or in any other Member State; no Member State has delegated such powers to the Union at the time of accession; no such authority has been conferred on any body of the Union by the EU Treaties. The Union is deliberately and in bad faith exceeding its powers, since the relevant international treaties clearly state that even decisions under the common asylum policy should not affect the competence of a Member State to maintain public order or to preserve internal security, and the last year and a half have shown that there is a direct link between migration and the situation of the European security policy. Ladies and Gentlemen, We must stop the construction of the Brussels dictatorship, and the best way to do so is to referenda. Hungarians and European citizens should be consulted. That is why the government initiated a referendum. The referendum is one of the main institutions of democracy, one of the strongest ways of expressing the will of a direct citizen. [[15.10]] There is also one aspect of the referendum that we have talked little about so far. This is how it would affect the Hungarian settlements if Brussels put in place the quota package. Ladies and Gentlemen, The quota package would place a huge burden on the shoulders of Hungarians and Hungarian settlements. We need to make it clear that no one can avoid people and that no one can ignore the views of citizens of a nation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-09-12-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-09-12-25	Congressman! Dear House, Allow me to respond to one aspect of your speech, and this is what you said would affect the Hungarian settlements if Brussels put the quota package in place. By the way, there has been little mention of this, perhaps to this day. Many people believe that if immigrants were to be deployed in Hungary, the resettlement would be concentrated in one place. On the other hand, all municipalities would bear the burden of the introduction procedure put in place. The referendum thus affects all settlements, and it is now decided whether there will be immigrant settlements in Hungary. The quota package would put a huge burden on settlements, and international examples show that the foot of the quota system is at municipal level with all its serious conflicts. Let's see some examples. There is a German city where, under a 2015 law, public authorities can designate and reserve privately owned non-use real estate for immigrants. In Germany, immigrants are also placed on river ships, and many school gymnasiums are full. Similar cases have occurred in several Italian and French cities, with severe local conflicts. The situation is exacerbated by the failure of integration experiments in most places, and, no matter how much PC does not talk about it, parallel societies develop. Local residents have less and less control over who they can live with. If Brussels were to beat the quota package, similar conflicts would have to be prepared in Hungary. I think the Hungarian settlements are aware of the stakes and are increasingly aware of the risks. That is why hundreds of municipalities have adopted decisions against resettlements. Unfortunately, the left still doesn't hear the concerns of the local people. It is well described by Martin Schulz and László Botka's trial in Szeged. After the meeting, the European Parliament's pro-quota President said that Szeged is a committed left-wing city, where any immigrant can be sent. Of course, they didn't ask the people who lived here what they thought about it. There is a suspicion that Brussels would also co-operate with left-wing self-governments to carry the quota package through. Another reason to vote no on October 2nd. Dear House, For this reason, we encourage local government leaders, even Ágnes Vadai, to consider the risks of the quota package and encourage citizens to participate accordingly, regardless of their political affiliation. We have already said it several times, and we are doing it now: the quota package carries inaccessible economic, cultural and security risks, which we must not take on, either for the country as a whole or for the Hungarian settlements. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-09-12-26	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr György Szilágyi from the Jobbik Group, with the title of Toni, Lord Voldemort and the two smoking gangsters, or tarmac novel Fidesz style, has applied for a speech before the agenda. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2016-09-12-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Here, on the first day of the autumn session, a little look back on the summer, as summer was not uneventful. We were just rushing our heads when your corruption cases came to light. These cases have shown that the Cosa Nostra Mafia organization in Sicilian probably has a sister organization in Hungary, the Roga Nostra. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You've fired this before.]] I mean you, the Fidesz-KDNP government. Unfortunately, we can say that the signs indicate that Hungary has a mob government today. They work the same way as the Sicilian Mafia, so they have a close relationship with the underworld. Politics, politicians and the underworld are close to each other, and the main Italian guidelines are respected, namely, that the prosecutor's office should be in their hands. So, even if they do go down with their shady business, the D.A. won't investigate your cases, so they can get away with being held accountable. Let's look at the cases: how did it start? First, it began with the fact that Tamás Portik, who became famous in oil transactions, could also be operated in Hungary with your votes, from which he made billions, at a court trial, he said that he had given Rogán Antal 10 million HUF bribes on the administration of certain V. district real estates. We thought the D.A.'s office would start investigating. The D.A.'s office isn't investigating, because they said that since Tamás Portik couldn't name the serial numbers of these bills, they think he probably lied, so he didn't conduct this investigation. Then the Vizoviczki case began. We saw a Vizoviczki-Rogan bell right here. One witness said that László Vizoviczki gave Antal Rogán 4 million forints in order to arrange a terrace permit. We thought the D.A.'s office would investigate, as it is possible that László Vizoviczki has several interests, several terraces in District V, whether they paid 4 million for each terrace, whether they paid 4 million forints each year. The D.A.'s office thought there was no reason to investigate this case as well. Then it turned out that László Vizoviczki and Fidelitas had a very good relationship with each other, as Fidelitas kept its events in his nightclubs. Here they received a 50-60 percent discount. And it also turned out that László Vizoviczki and certain young politicians with fidesz had a very good relationship with each other, that these young people with fidesz could go to the VIP rooms, where they were supposed to be recorded. We need to know about these VIP rooms, witnesses tell us that there's usually been drug abuse, prostitution, and there's still a list of these things. [[Károly Kontra: Were you there?]] Then came the letter from Vizoviczki to Cubatov, which nobody knows anything about. This ten-page letter is probably known only by two people in Hungary, one of the underworld figures of László Vizoviczki, and the other is Gábor Kubatov, party director and vice president of Fidesz. The two of them know what's in it, because supposedly, Gábor Kubatov sent this letter to the competent authority, but they haven't found it since. We would like to know what could be in this ten - page letter, with the prosecution claiming that they only have eight pages, two pages are missing, and they do not know where Gábor Kubatov could have sent this letter. But the D.A.'s office doesn't investigate here either. Well, there is no reason to investigate, because probably only leading MSZP and Fidesz leading politicians are involved in what kind of transactions they are involved in. Then he came after him, didn't he, the case of László Vizoviczki-Bús Balázs? Is it Balázs Bús, the Fidesz-KDNP III. Did your district mayor go to these VIP rooms? If he's been, what was he doing there? You really didn't pay 150-170 thousand forints a day? And if he didn't pay, why didn't he pay, what was the reason he didn't have to pay? Then you came after him, didn't you, Lord Voldemort, where it turns out that you manage EU money as if it were your own, as if the European Union were sending this money to you and your family members. Well, I'll tell you that's not true. This is sent to Hungary and to Hungarian citizens. After all, it turns out that they want to put 90 percent in their pockets for a tender, and then they want to put in their pocket a 5-10 million forint as a so-called constitutional cost. And then, you know, this might turn into an investigation, but there's gonna be some doubt about the outcome. Then we could talk about a lot of things, but there's no time to talk about the MNB, Lőrinc Mészáros and his yacht, how much it costs to refuel in a season like this, we could talk about Andy Vajna, his enrichments, trading houses and foreign affairs appointments. But actually, if we've already started the adaptation with a movie title, I'd like to end with one of the best gangster movies in America once, and I hope that in Hungary we can adapt this by having a Fidesz once. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-12-28	On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-09-12-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I cannot respond to Mr. Congressman's summer film experiences, but it is strange that we listened to this speech a few days after György Budaházy was sentenced to many years in prison. This is about György Budaházy, who has been organized on numerous occasions by Jobbikós. You can't deny that. As far as Antal Rogán is concerned, it is clear that since Antal Rogán directly assisted the Prime Minister, more and more political attacks have been carried out against him. One thing's for sure, Antal Rogán wasn't more thoroughly investigated by the D.A.'s office. All investigations have cleared the minister, and we are currently prosecuting slanderers. [[15.20]] What is happening, by the way, is nothing to be surprised at, since during left-wing government, the head of the secret service met with a leader of the underworld and agreed on how to collect and produce defile materials for right-wing politicians. Antal Rogán was on the list they wrote. Therefore, in recent events, there is nothing surprising [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] And according to press reports, this case continues today. As far as the issue of EU proposals is concerned, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it was the government that initiated an internal investigation, that the new application system worked properly, that there was no payment, so that the State could not be harmed. No one could play the rules. Otherwise, it is the right decision that, if a Member feels that his name has been abused, he will contribute to the suspension of his immunity. It is in the common interest that we get answers to all the questions that need to be clarified. By the way, when Béla Kovács' espionage scandal broke out, they first said they wouldn't hide behind immunity, and then a few days passed, and they hid behind immunity with great force. If I understand your speech correctly, Jobbik is very concerned about transparency and wants order in public life. It's okay. However, it is strange that this incitement from the party that continues to keep secrets from the aforementioned espionage scandal and does not disclose the results of the internal investigation. It is typical that you have nominated Béla Kovács as a Member of the European Parliament even though you already knew everything about him. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Because there is nothing!]] Why don't you worry about public money when a large part of your group's resources lands in the company group of one mysterious entrepreneur? Transport companies and car workshops have written policy studies. Do you think that's okay? Their two faces can also be seen in the fact that they do not seem to have investigated the role of their new leader in an extensive VAT fraud scandal. So you've nominated him to be the leader of the faction by not clarifying this issue. Or to mention a case that has been forgotten so far: what did the predecessor of Novak think of when he wrote that he wanted to organize Jobbik's 100 million-dollar properties? It would be nice to know if this statement has anything to do with being kicked out of the faction that he's not here right now. [[György Szilágyi: No real estate! Noise from Jobbik's benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] Until these questions are answered with satisfaction, there is nothing else but that Jobbik can do anything for money and power. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-09-12-30	Mr Lajos Kósa, head of the Fidesz faction group, from the Fidesz Group, said no on 2 October. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2016-09-12-31	Mr. President. Dear House, Before I go to the topic I have indicated, I would just like to mention that Mr Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP, does not seem to know that there is a city in the country called Debrecen, where 210,000 Hungarians live. Debrecen is undoubtedly the second largest city in the country, and Debrecen is the second largest city in the world where most Hungarians live. By the way, if he hadn't noticed, he could have asked Jenő Greek, who is an LMP representative of the municipality of Debrecen. He received 32 votes in his individual district, so he could have asked another 32 people whether Debrecen was or not. In any case, his statement that London would be the second largest Hungarian city is certainly not true. It is just not true, and I would like to get to the point here, because the fact is that there can also be quite surprising consequences for compulsory resettlement quotas. A study was published recently from Sweden, where according to data from the Swedish Statistical Office, 50-55 thousand Swedish left Sweden every year during the 2000s. The vast majority of these were highly qualified professionals, 90 percent of which were graduates. When they examined why they left Sweden, the answers could be drawn [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Everyone went to Debrecen!]] to put it so euphemistically, that the civilizational disaster that they had experienced in Sweden led to the fact that, by the way, much more Swedish graduates leave Sweden year after year than the number of Hungarians who work year after year in different countries of the European Union. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: Ask our Hungarians why they left!]] I would add that with these numbers, of course, everyone's cut up with nothing to do with reality. I would like to remind the representatives of the Hungarian Parliament that, based on last year's data, 350 thousand Hungarians work in different countries of the European Union. Of these there are 110,000 daily commuters, so in no way did he settle there and build his existence there. Interesting trend, too. From the change of regime, when it was first possible to work abroad, 240 thousand Hungarians chose to work in the EU until we joined the European Union, and there are 350 thousand of us from the start of our membership until today. In addition, their internal composition changes extremely quickly, so a lot of people come back, go out again, come back and take their place. Why is all this important? Because the very unexpected effects of the compulsory introduction quota are possible and still difficult to predict today. We also know that today there are more than 40,000 European citizens who are not Hungarian citizens, but who are living in Hungary with their European rights. He's not an employee, so he doesn't work; he's living here and transferring his income from somewhere else. All of this is extremely important because when we look at the consequences of the compulsory resettlement quota, it is shocking. What did the European Union do when it made its first decision? [[Zoltán Grimlock: What does the bond entail? That's what you're talking about.]] In France, he confiscated empty houses and apartments from the owners, and that is where the French authorities installed the migrants. By the way, the vast majority of these were illegal migrants. So this isn't about getting political asylum. Illegal migrant. What's Germany doing? Same thing. So it's not that they'd be placed in camps, some gathering places, dorms. No! Almost all German villages have migrants, illegal ones, so they are not legally resident in Germany, but are temporarily placed. They were placed in apartments with a decent owner, but they didn't live in the apartment. By the way, this has resulted in the processes that are now real in Sweden. If we want to avoid this, if we really want the harmful consequences that we see in Western European countries not to come to Hungary, then let us vote no on 2 October. It is clear to the contrary that this is the only reasonable option. Hungary and the Hungarian people, the Hungarian property, must be protected. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-09-12-32	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-09-12-33	Mr. Fraction Manager, There are still a few questions about the referendum that should be clarified. Leading left-wing politicians and other public figures often say that there is no real stake in the reference, either that it is only the introduction of 1300 people, or that there is no such decision in Brussels. [[Zoltán Grimlock: There isn't!]] Anyone who says that has actually slept for the last year, or knowingly misleads the Hungarian public. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You lead me astray!]] Brussels has made several decisions over the last year, which together can be called a quota package. So the bureaucrats have already made their decision, and now in the Member States, I could say it's our turn. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: What about the Council? Zoltán Grimlock: The Orbán will vote for it! The president's ringing the bell.]] To change that. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is also a reference to this in the final document of the last EU summit. The three particularly dangerous elements of the Brussels quota package are as follows. Above all, they want to introduce a mandatory distribution procedure without a ceiling. On this basis, thousands would be deployed in Hungary. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Where is the law?]] Depending on how many people arrive in Europe. Just to remind you, last year, 2015 there were one and a half million people. Secondly, countries who do not accept compulsory resettlement would be subject to a severe fine. This punishment would be HUF 78 million per immigrant, according to the last written proposal. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: How many times have you stolen?]] Moreover, the Hungarian left also voted in favour of a decision in the European Parliament which would impose financial sanctions on those who reject the Brussels quota package. The third dangerous element in the package is that it would facilitate family reunification, and this would further increase the number of residents. These are therefore the three most dangerous elements of the Brussels quota package. The pressure in Hungary makes it clear that the Western countries, while calling for solidarity, have already tried to deport 54 thousand people back to Hungary. [[15.30]] But what does the opposition say? They're trying to use the referendum for party policy manoeuvres, and the voter can only sense that they're talking nonsense. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Luckily, everything is written down for you!]] They're talking nonsense! Let's take a few examples of this. We remember well that the left - Mrs Agnes Kunhalmi is in our midst - initially said that immigration is a false problem created by Fidesz. Shortly thereafter, it was stated that this is a real problem, but we need a common European solution. Then there was the debate about the border lock. At first, they said it wasn't a solution. Then came Congressman Hiller, who said there was no better solution than this, and he doesn't know it. When Brussels made its first decisions on the quota package, there were also two left-wing parties that collected signatures in addition to quotas. Then a few days ago, in the last days of August, perhaps on the 31st, we read in an MSZP communication that we should not pretend there is a quota, because there is no quota. The president of the MSZP is likely to conceal these MSZP communications because the president of the MSZP stood up the next day and said that he would support the government in the fight against quota, even in Parliament, to vote accordingly. After that, you would think that they would finally declare that the MSZP states that they too vote no in the referendum, but they do not. The left declared boycott, called for invalid votes, published funny posters, and legally entangled the referendum from Brussels to the Constitutional Court. As many days, as many opinions, as many danglings, as many honest answers are none. We can ask why if the MSZP, after total denial, has admitted that there is a quota package in Brussels, it cannot take the simple step of voting 'no' in the referendum. Everyone rightly expects their position to be finally clarified, even their own voters, because they seem to have lost touch with them after reality. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-12-34	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats. I would like to inform my fellow Members that we have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I now give the floor to Congressman János Volner, who asked for it as a personal concern. Here you go, Congressman, Mr. Group Leader.
u2016-09-12-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand the Prime Minister that the questions about Lőrinc Mészáros always cause him to be nervous, because the last time we saw the stromanship in newspapers and weekly newspapers, it was illustrated by the photo and name of Lőrinc Mészáros. [[Interview from Fidesz: Personal involvement!]] However, it is important to see that the media that slander us in the same way lose them in a row, Congressman, the lawsuits against us. These newspapers are in a hurry to fall into personality lawsuits against better politicians. As regards myself, I would like to say to you that, in my 16-year entrepreneurial career, I have never been subject to a tax administration procedure. Unlike Fidesz entrepreneurs, I have never hired or applied for state aid, I have never participated in public procurement, I have always been a net contributor to the budget. [[György Balla intervenes.]] Congressman, this is an entrepreneurial achievement that I am rightly proud of, and the slanderous campaign that you are conducting could only be interrupted by good taste, but this cannot be found with you. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-12-36	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2016-09-12-37	Dear Parliament, László Varju, independent; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP; Ikotity, István LMP; György Lukács, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Gergely Farkas, Jobbik. On Tuesday, the following representatives came forward to address the agenda: István Ikotity, LMP; Zsolt Molnár, MSZP; Bence Rétvári, KDNP; Márton Gyöngyösi, Jobbik; Imre Vas, Fidesz Vas. On Tuesday, he applied for a speech after the agenda: Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; Erika Kissné Köles, Slovenian minority speaker; György Lukács, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Nándor Gúr, MSZP.On Wednesday, he applied for a speech after the agenda: Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP.
u2016-09-12-38	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, We now have credentials and a vow of oath from our representatives. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that Mr Tamás Pintér has been nominated on the national list of Jobbik, with the resignation of Mr President Novák, Mr Jobbik. Before the meeting, the committee discussed the regularity of Tamás Pintér's credentials on the basis of electoral documents. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to President Imre Vejkey, who has the result of the examination of the mandate in accordance with Article 9 of the Rules of Procedure. He shall report to the Parliament in accordance with paragraph 2 of Section 2. Here you go, Mr. President. You have the floor.
u2016-09-12-39	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As is well known to you, on August 31, 2016, the President Novák resigned his mandate of the joint party list of Members of Parliament set up in the general election of 2014 by the organisations for Jobbik Hungary. The vacant mandate was issued by the National Election Committee (NEC) 58/2016. was issued to Mr Tamás Pintér by decision of 6 September 2016. On 9 September 2016, the decision became final at 4 p.m. The transfer of the credentials took place on 9 September 2016. Regulation No 10/2014 on certain house rules Parliamentary resolution 9. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act, the immunity committee examined the documents necessary for the confirmation of Mr Tamás Pintér's mandate at today's meeting. In the meantime, the Member indicated in his statement that there was no conflict of interest against him, so that he could exercise the rights of his representatives. On this basis, the immunity committee unanimously took the following decision without abstention or opposition: the immunity committee proposes to the Parliament to justify Mr Tamás Pintér's mandate. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the Jobbik.]] In accordance with paragraph 2 of this Article, the Committee has examined the documents necessary for the mandate of Mr Tamás Pintér at today's meeting. In the meantime, the Member indicated in his statement that there was no conflict of interest against him, so that he could exercise the rights of his representatives. On this basis, the immunity committee unanimously took the following decision without abstention or opposition: the immunity committee proposes to the Parliament to justify Mr Tamás Pintér's mandate. Thank you very much for your attention. (A round of applause in the ranks of the governing parties and Jobbik. )
u2016-09-12-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a proposal amending the report on the outcome of the examination of mandates cannot be submitted. The mandate shall be certified by the Parliament without debate. So I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it justifies the mandate of Tamás Pintér. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament has confirmed the mandate of Tamás Pintér with 159 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that Mr. András Schiffer LMP has resigned and has nominated Mr. Ákos Hadházy from the national list of LMP. The committee for the examination of mandates met before the meeting and examined the regularity of Ákos Hadházy's credentials on the basis of electoral documents. I give the floor to President Imre Vejkey, who has the result of the examination of the mandate in accordance with Article 9 of the Rules of Procedure. He shall report to the Parliament in accordance with paragraph 2 of Section 2. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2016-09-12-41	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As is well-known to you, András Schiffer resigned on 5 September 2016 the mandate of May Other from the joint party list of Members of Parliament set up in the general elections of 2014 by political nominating organisations. The vacant mandate was issued by the National Election Committee (NEC) 59/2016. By decision of 6 September 2016, it was issued to Dr. Ákos Hadházy. On 9 September 2016, the decision became final at 4 p.m. The transfer of the credentials took place on 9 September 2016. Regulation No 10/2014 on certain house rules Parliamentary resolution 9. According to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act, the immunity committee examined the documents necessary for the confirmation of the mandate of Dr. Ákos Hadházy at today's meeting. In the meantime, the Member has also indicated in his statement that there is no conflict of interest against him, so he can exercise the rights of his representatives. On this basis, the immunity committee unanimously, without abstaining or voting against, has taken the following decision: the immunity committee proposes to Parliament that Dr. Ákos Hadházy justify his mandate. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-09-12-42	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a proposal amending the report on the outcome of the examination of mandates cannot be submitted. The mandate shall be certified by the Parliament without debate. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it justifies the mandate of Ákos Hadházy. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament has confirmed the mandate of Ákos Hadházy with 157 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Now, the solemn oath and the signature of the oaths. I would ask Mr Tamás Pintér and Mr Ákos Hadházy to come to the centre of the Chamber and take the oath. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Believer to read out the text of the oath; and I would ask the Honourable Parliament to stand up and listen to it as usual. [[The people in this room stand up. Dr. Ákos Hadházy and Tamás Pintér enter the center of the room. Dezső gullible reads the words of the oath.]]
u2016-09-12-43	Me, Tamás Pintér/Dr. Ákos Hadházy, I vow to be faithful to Hungary and its basic law, to keep its legislation and to keep it with others; to exercise my office as Members of Parliament for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God.
u2016-09-12-44	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Following the oath, in accordance with our traditions, I ask Mr Attila Móring to prepare the oath papers for signature and the elected representatives to sign them. [[It's happening. Attila Móring, who signed the oath document, congratulates Tamás Pintér and Dr. Ákos Hadházy and gives a copy of the signed oath document. To Tamás Pintér and Dr. Ákos Hadházy first Gábor Vona, then Erzsébet Schmuck, Dr. Bernadett Szél, Dr. László Szakács, Gábor Fodor, Lajos Kósa, Dr. Imre Vejkey and Zsuzsanna Szelényi congratulated him.]] [[15.40]] Dear Parliament, I wish the new Members of Parliament effective work and good luck on behalf of Parliament and myself. I declare that the number of Members of Parliament is total, i.e. 199. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that no consensus was reached at last week's meeting of the House Committee on the proposed working schedule of the 2016 Autumn session of the Parliament, and therefore Parliamentary Act 13. Pursuant to paragraph 6 of Section 6 of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the working order. The working arrangements have already been made available to my fellow Members from the website. I would like to inform you that Parliamentary Act 13. In accordance with paragraph 7 of Article 7 of the Rules of Procedure, one representative per group of Members and the first independent representative to be heard shall be entitled to a maximum of three minutes' contributions. I'll ask if anyone wants to take the opportunity to speak, and I'll ask them to sign in with a button. [[There's no such signal.]] In accordance with paragraph 2 of this Article, one representative per group of representatives and the first independent representative to take the floor shall be entitled to a maximum of three minutes' contributions following the presentation of the question under discussion. I'll ask if anyone wants to take the opportunity to speak, and I'll ask them to sign in with a button. (There is no such indication. ) I don't see any contact. So it's Parliament's decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the proposed working schedule of the autumn session. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the proposed working order by 111 votes in favour, 50 against and without abstentions. I would like to inform you that the card calendars containing the Parliament's autumn 2016 work schedule will be available at the desk of the office of hall commissioner. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the government has submitted a legislative programme for the autumn session, which interested parties have already learned on the IT network. The State Audit Office has put forward its recommendation, which is also available on the IT network. I also announce that András Patyi, President of the National Election Committee, informed the Speaker of the National Election Committee that the National Election Committee was the 43/2016. In its decision No.3 concluded that the CXCVI of 2011 on national assets was initiated by Zoltán Kész. Can a natural person who has an employment relationship with a company as defined in Annex 2 to Law No 2 receive a remuneration of up to HUF 2 million gross per month? The number of valid signatures collected to support the national referendum initiative reached 100 000, but remained below 200,000. The number of valid signatures shall not be less than 106 275. Transcription by the President of the National Election Committee C/11344. Available in the Parliamentary Information System. In view of this, the House Rules of Decision 88. Pursuant to Article 2 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the President of the Parliament appointed the Judicial Committee to prepare and submit a proposal for a decision on ordering a national referendum on the above issue. Dear Parliament, I declare that András Patyi, President of the National Election Committee, informed the Speaker of the National Election Committee that the National Election Committee was the 51/2016. In its resolution No. 1 of the Curia, you stated that Zoltán Gőgös initiated it and did you agree that Parliament should legislate on the prohibition of the sale of state-owned agricultural land? The number of valid signatures collected to support the national referendum initiative reached 100 000, but remained below 200,000. Number of valid signatures: 181 318. Transcription by the President of the National Election Committee C/11240. available in the parliamentary IT system. In view of this, the House Rules of Decision 88. Pursuant to Article 2 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the President of the Parliament appointed the Judicial Committee to prepare and submit a proposal for a decision on ordering a national referendum on the above issue. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, President János Áder sent his transcript of the appointment of State Secretary to the Parliament. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the transcript of the President of the Republic. Here you go, notary.
u2016-09-12-45	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the Parliament that Article 9 (four) (j) of the Fundamental Law and XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys of State. Law 52. On the basis of paragraph 2 of the Act, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, I appointed Mr János Schanda as State Secretary of the Ministry of Human Resources with effect from 1 September 2016. Budapest, 27 August 2016 Sincerely: János Áder
u2016-09-12-46	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of Parliament and myself, to congratulate the Secretary of State and wish you every success in your work. Dear Parliament, At the meeting of the House Committee, all political groups agreed that, in line with previous practice, Parliament should adopt derogations from house rules in relation to speeches outside the agenda and the discussion of questions. The proposal for a derogation from the house rules was made by H/11942. You can get to know him on the website. I would like to ask Mr. Lajos Szűcs to explain the substance of this. Here you go, notary. [[15.50]]
u2016-09-12-47	Dear Parliament, The House Committee initiates that Parliament, at its autumn session in 2016, if it adopts its agenda for several weeks, may also be entitled to speak outside the political groups' agenda on the next day of the second week of the meeting set out on the agenda, at the latest before the opening of the first day of the second week; 2. in the course of the discussion of the questions, it shall depart from the House Rules of Procedure so that on the second week of the meeting, which contains the item on the agenda of the questions, only the question which has been submitted at 9.30 a.m. on the working day preceding the sitting day of the meeting may be discussed.
u2016-09-12-48	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, The House Committee initiates the Parliament to adopt its agenda for several weeks at its autumn session in 2016... [[For signal:]] Excuse me, that has already been said on the part of the notary. The president could be wrong. [[Defiance. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] He wasn't wrong. [[Defiance.]] Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, four-fifths of the Members present need to vote in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the derogation from the rule of law by 159 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group proposes that, on Wednesday's Day of Parliament, the central offices will be reviewed and district T/11907 amending certain laws relating to the strengthening of offices and the delegation of tasks of certain budgetary bodies XLVI of 1997 on the National Hunting Chamber of Hungary until the closure of the general debate of bill No. T/11836. Following a general discussion of the legislative proposal No. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. It's a visible majority. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendment adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. It's a visible majority. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, In the absence of a committee agreement, we are now deciding on the Commission's discussion and decision-making of proposals. According to the proposal put forward by the President, the National Assembly is B/10984 on the activities and operation of the Bethlen Gábor Fund in 2015. The designated committee shall be invited to take its decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Committee on National Inclusion is invited by B/10984. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament asked the committee of the designated National Assembly to take the decision by 114 votes in favour, 53 against and without abstentions. According to the proposal put forward by the President, the National Assembly is responsible for the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises in 2013-2014, its management conditions, the measures taken to improve business development and the results of State aid to small and medium-sized enterprises B/11206. The designated committee shall be invited to take its decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the designated Committee on Enterprise Development is invited by B/11206. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament asked the appointed Committee on Enterprise Development to take the decision by 115 votes in favour, 50 against, with two abstentions. According to the proposal put forward by the President, the National Assembly is responsible for the activities of the Hungarian Competition Authority in 2015 and for the experience gained during the application of the Competition Act in relation to the application of the purity and freedom of competition. The designated committee shall be invited to take its decision. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament whether the designated Economic Committee will be invited by B/11209. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament asked the designated Economic Committee to take a decision by 115 votes in favour, 51 against and 1 abstention. [[Sneeze.]] I beg your pardon. I just confirmed the yes vote. [[Defiance.]] According to the proposal put forward by the President, the National Assembly proposed B/1722 on food chain security and the use of the supervisory fee. The designated committee shall be invited to take its decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether he will ask the designated Committee on Agriculture to be invited by B/1722. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament asked the designated Agriculture Committee to take a decision by 114 votes in favour, 53 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on personal suggestions. The election of a member of the Monetary Council of the Hungarian National Bank follows. Allow me to extend my compliments to Dr. Kardkovács Kolos and his family as well as to his invited guests. Mr Kolos Kardkovács on the fourth edition of It shall be seated in box No 1. Thank you very much. The Economic Committee preparing for the election of a member of the Monetary Council of the National Bank of Hungary has heard the candidate, and in his proposal, acting under the authority of the Hungarian National Bank Act, he proposes that Mr.Kardkovács Kolos be elected member of the Monetary Council of the National Bank of Hungary. The proposal for a decision under the power of the President S/12061. You can get to know him on the website. Dear Parliament, The member of the Monetary Council shall be elected by Parliament for six years by the vote of the majority of the Members of Parliament present. The Parliament shall decide on the proposal for a resolution without debate. I ask the Honourable Parliament that S/12061. Mr Kolos Kardkovács will be elected as a member of the Monetary Council of the National Bank of Hungary on the basis of a proposal No. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Mr.Kardkovács Kolos to the Monetary Council of the Hungarian National Bank by 114 votes in favour, 53 votes in favour, without abstention. Dear Parliament, Now, the solemn oath and the signature of the oaths. I respectfully invite Mr Kolos Kardkovács to come to the centre of the Chamber and take his oath. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to read out the text of the oath, and I would ask the Honourable Parliament, as usual, to hear it standing up. [[The people in this room stand up. Swordsmith Kolos steps into the middle of the room. Notary Dr. Lajos Szűcs reads the words of the oath.]]
u2016-09-12-49	I, Kolos Kardkovács, vow to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, to keep its legislation and to keep it with others; I exercise my position as a member of the Monetary Council of the Hungarian National Bank for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God.
u2016-09-12-50	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now I ask Mr. József Attila Móring to prepare the oath document for signature, and I ask Mr. Kolos Kardkovács to sign it. [[It's happening. Attila Móring, who signed the oath document, congratulates Kolos Kardkovács and gives a copy of the signed oath document. Kardkovács Kolos was first congratulated by Dr. János Fónagy, then by Dr. István Nagy, Péter Cseresnyés, Lajos Kósa, Erzsébet Schmuck, Dr. László Szakács, János Volner and Dr. Imre Vejkey.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Parliament and myself, I congratulate Mr Kolos Kardkovács on the election of a member of the Monetary Council of the Hungarian National Bank. Dear Parliament, The election of the new notary of the Parliament will follow. I declare that Adam Mirkóczki has resigned as notary. Allow me to thank the notary for his work so far. Mr. Note, thank you very much. During the five-party negotiations to prepare for the inaugural meeting, it was agreed that the Jobbik Group could propose to fill this notary. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Széchenyi Dezső to present the S/12060 proposed under Presidential authority. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Here you go, notary. [[16.00]]
u2016-09-12-51	Dear Parliament, 11/2014 on the election of Parliament's officials. Parliamentary resolution is amended as follows: Parliament elects István Szávay, Jobbik, instead of Ádám Mirkóczki, Jobbik, as notary of the Parliament. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption.
u2016-09-12-52	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, An amendment to the motion cannot be tabled; Parliament shall decide on the official without debate. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it will be elected by S/12060. István Szávay, on the basis of proposal No. 1 to the notary of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament elected Mr István Szávay to the notary of the Parliament with 162 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Congratulations on the election of the new notary of the Parliament, and I wish you every success in your work. Dear Parliament, The election of Commission officials and members will follow. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the S/12068 tabled in the power of president. The content of the personal proposal.
u2016-09-12-53	13/2014 on the establishment of parliamentary committees, the election of its officials and members. Mr Sándor Burány, MSZP, instead of Mr Attila Mesterházy, MSZP; Mr János Volner, Jobbik, instead of Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik, Chairman of the Committee; Dr. László Varga, MSZP, instead of Zoltán Lukács, Vice-President of the Committee; Mr. Fórián Farkas, Fidesz, instead of István Farlik, KDNP; Dr. László Szakács, MSZP, instead of Dr. László, MSZP; Dr. László Szakákács, MSZP, instead of the Committee on European Affairs, Árpád Farkas, MSZP, instead of Velez, Árpád, MSZP; Mr. and Tamás Sneider, Jobbik, to the Committee on the right-right. Point 2 of the Parliamentary Decision is amended as follows: instead of Máriusz Révész, Fidesz, instead of L. László L., Fidesz, dr. Tamás Harangozó, MSZP, instead of Sándor Burány, MSZP, László Kiss, MSZP, instead of Dr. László Varga, MSZP, István Apáti, Jobbik, instead of Tamás Pintér, Jobbik, Dr. András Schiffer, LMP, Dr. Ákost Hadházy, LMP, elected as a member of the Committee. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption.
u2016-09-12-54	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts S/12068. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the personal proposal by 167 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is up to you to discuss and decide on the immunity case. The immunity committee at the request of the Attorney General H12059. Parliamentary Member of Mengyi Roland presented a proposal for a resolution on his immunity. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before taking a decision, I will give the floor to President Imre Vejkey, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2016-09-12-55	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The immunity committee is the Attorney General Ksb. 1229/2016/17-I. On the basis of his transcript No.1, he discussed Dr. Roland's immunity today. The transcript made a motion for the suspension of the immunity of Parliamentary Congressman Roland Mengyi, for the justified suspicion of an attempt to engage in trafficking in a bribed influence, as an accomplice in a criminal alliance and a particularly high-value fiscal fraud. According to the transcript by the Attorney General, our fellow Member was aware that the proposals submitted by the associated cooperatives in response to the call for proposals for the networking of social cooperatives launched by the Ministry of Human Resources in 2015 by the Ministry of Human Resources were not real. [[16.10]] According to the data of the investigation, 90 percent of the money would have been predominantly distributed to Roland Mengyi. The immunity committee discussed the matter today and examined it. The meeting was attended by our fellow Member, Mr Roland, who said that what was in the transcript of the Supreme Prosecutor's case concerning him was not true and asked for his immunity to be suspended in order to reveal the truth. The immunity committee is constantly proposing the suspension of immunity in public cases, as it serves to protect the authority of the Parliament, and the Member concerned clearly wishes to do so. In view of all of this, the Committee of the Regions proposes to the Honourable Parliament, with 6 votes in favour, that the Parliament suspend the immunity of Dr. Roland, Parliamentary Representative of Mengyi. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-12-56	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I will now ask Congressman Roland Mengyi if he wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. In five minutes' time, Congressman.
u2016-09-12-57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, As suggested by the immunity committee, I ask once again that my immunity be suspended in this case. Thank you very much.
u2016-09-12-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I would like to remind you that the committee has taken a position that the congressman's immunity be suspended by the Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of Congressman Roland of Mengyi. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament suspended the immunity of Congressman Mengyi Roland with 167 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, It's 4:10 p.m. now, and we're moving on to interpellation and immediate questioning. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the Speaker of Parliament is the Rules of Procedure 121. Paragraph 4 (a) - Article 124 The following questions were rejected by virtue of the powers extended by Paragraph 1 of the Act, as they do not fall within the remit of the recipients: Dr. Ágnes Vadai, independent Member, Mrs K/10947. Written question No.2 addressed to the Minister for Human Resources; independent Member Mrs Szabó Timea K/11099. Mr Gergely Farkas Jobbikos K/11779. Written question No 1 addressed to the Minister for National Development. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members, who are leaving the Chamber now in order to deal with their urgent official affairs, to leave without disturbing the Member to say her question of interpellation. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. When will the resettlement of the migrants filling the pockets of friends be completed? It's an address. Congresswoman Márta Demeter has the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-09-12-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. How do you campaign against alien resettlement when Fidesz is specifically pro-implantation? In fact, not only do you support the resettlement of immigrants, but you organize these resettlements yourself at government level, and Fidesz offshore companies make a hundred billion bucks out of it. These mass resettlements are called settlement government bonds. To this day, you have opened the door to Hungary and the European Union to 16,000 foreigners, for good money, of course. To this day, you have helped settle 16,000 immigrants, and you want to lure more residents into our country. So what's wrong with moving foreigners? Isn't it the fact that only the guy who pays for their buddies' companies comes in here? Because the benefits of mass Fidesz deployment of foreigners only enrich offshore companies that are linked, among other things, to Antal Rogán and Árpád Habony. The only question now is whether it's just your buddies or you who're putting in your pockets from the hundreds of billions that are the benefit of fidesz introductions so far and so much longer. We see and read that the Fidesz has unleashed convicted criminals into this country. In addition, this is how Hungarian people will end up paying immigrants with interest, because this is how the settlement government bond works. Whoever buys this will lend a loan to Viktor Orbán's government. In return, you will immediately receive a lifelong residence permit in Hungary. However, we must repay this loan with interest five years later. In other words, the fact is that a significant part of the money is put in the pocket by Fidesz companies, and then the amount increased by interest is ironed from Hungarian taxpayers five years later. Do you not feel the contradiction that while the government is campaigning against resettlement and campaigning against immigration, the Fidesz government has lured 16,000 people, a city of immigrants, to Hungary? Do you not feel ashamed that criminals are being released to Hungarians for money? Most of the money thus received will be stolen and then, five years later, the amount increased by interest will be repaid by the same Hungarian taxpayers. This is untenable and cannot continue. Therefore, if the Minister of Interior did not do so, the MSZP submitted a bill on the elimination of fidesz resettlements, public accountability of intermediary offshore companies and 75% taxation of the profits of companies. I'm asking you if the government will support our proposal, or if you'll continue to assist us with the fidesz resettlements that enrich our friends and threaten the security of our country. And I think there is one more question: how much does the Hungarian Prime Minister get from this business? Is he the famous 90 percent, or is he not the Prime Minister, 95, or is he the Prime Minister?
u2016-09-12-60	Thank you very much. State Secretary Károly Kontra will answer the interpellation question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-09-12-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In contrast to the allegations he made in his interpellation and based in all respects on assumptions and press reports, let us see the reality. Under the legal provisions currently in force, a national residence permit may be granted to a third-country national whose entry and residence is in the interest of the national economy in view of his investments in Hungary. A third-country national whose establishment threatens Hungary's public security or national security shall not be granted a residence permit. The national security investigation shall be carried out by the police, the Counter-Terrorism Centre and the Constitutional Protection Office and shall cooperate with the Immigration and Nationality Office. The examination shall be open for 30 days and the procedure shall also apply to the family members of the applicant. A person who presents a national security risk shall not be granted a residence permit, and if a person becomes unworthy of a residence permit, the authorisation may be revoked under the legislation. From the date of the introduction of the programme, four of the applicants for a residence permit were rejected in the light of national security interests, having regard to public security interests. As a member of the family, nine persons were rejected for reasons of national security, having regard to the public security interest. In contrast to your claims, the residency bond scheme is therefore neither immigration nor uncontrolled. The real threat is not the settlement policy for Hungary, but the 390 thousand illegal immigrants who crossed the border uncontrolled. Let us also remember that last year 282,000 foreigners were on visas in Hungary; the EU standards requiring the examination of visa applications are not as strict as the requirements imposed on applicants for residence permits. There is such a system in all EU countries, and it also operates in Hungary in a controlled manner in accordance with EU rules and international models. [[16.20]] International practice is that each country entrusts this activity to intermediaries. The ownership of intermediary companies is known, without which they cannot obtain a licence, and the market will charge the company's commission fees. I can say for sure, Madam honourable Member, that half of what you claim to be an establishment obligation is not true. In order to base your opinion on real information in the future, we will be happy to provide you with an information document that I will give you after today's meeting. I trust you can accept my answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-09-12-62	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Now I'm going to ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2016-09-12-63	I don't accept it, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, if half of what you said was true, that would also be a big problem. You can see that the Ministry of Interior should at least be aware of the risks. It turned out that criminals could come to Hungary, bought such permission, but the Ministry of Interior does not move its ears, no investigation has been initiated, and from now on I think that everything you say about this is uncredited. The Home Office itself assists in Fidesz VIP resettlements. The facts remain the same: 16,000 immigrants have been brought to Hungary while taxpayers' money is being used for anti-immigration campaigns for billions of dollars. This is the most disgusting scam, and I think, in recent years, the Fidesz government has been selling the security of Hungary and the EU for money. You see, there's new evidence, there's no government in this country, what you're saying, there's no national interest. There's only one thing. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] the Fidesz government's business interest, which is always paid by taxpayers and Hungarian taxpayers at the end of the day.
u2016-09-12-64	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, As we have heard, the congresswoman did not accept this State Secretary's reply. So I ask you, do you accept it? Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 104 votes to 41, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Márton Gyöngyösi, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade:. Naivity, dilettantism, or blackmail is behind the fact that the Orbán government also employs intelligence and spies linked to the Balliberal era? It's an address. Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi, please.
u2016-09-12-65	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Even in the ranks of Fidesz, many would have been surprised if, in the two thousand years when Péter Szijjártó, even János Kóka, the party soldier of SZDSZ, István Szent-Iványi, who founded Mátyás Eörsi, who was the personal secretary of Ferenc Gyurcsány, and Alexandra Doboli, who was the head of the external affairs of the SZDSZ, and who grew up from the secretary-general of the Socialist Minister János Veres. This is what Hungary received from Fidesz, who once had the promise of accountability. Meanwhile, we have witnessed the demise of Hungarian diplomacy, and Fidesz has reduced foreign policy to simple commercialisation, in which traders are favored by the government, and the balance is a great deal of corruption and national security risks. Meanwhile, while your government is talking about forward-looking concepts, the representation of Hungarian national interests was replaced by the representation of the financial interests of a small circle near Fidesz, and the announced large businesses largely covered the fact that we helped foreigners win. However, even here there are particularly hair-freaking cases, such as the Saudi billionaire Gait Faraon, who is wanted by the FBI and associated with terrorist financing, who has a joint venture with the National Trading House Zrt., which is supervised by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and who is buying property from Viktor Orbán's son-in-law's company as a monument. What's beyond that, however, is to get spies and intelligence connected to the missing Balliberal systems in position. How is it possible that József Czukor, who had been appointed Head of Intelligence under the Medgyessy Government, in the Western embassy before the change of regime, could first become Ambassador to Berlin under the Orbán Government and then the Prime Minister's Chief Advisor for Foreign Affairs? How is it possible that one of our most important foreign representations, Zsolt Hetesy, who worked as Director General of the National Security Service at the time of the Gyurcsány government and then as the head of the Information Office? He was in this position at a time when he was suspected to be aware of the professional services, if a series of murders against Gypsies took place in Hungary, not directly with the help of the force, or the events in the autumn of 2006, in a way strongly manipulated by the secret services. Where did the slogan of accountability, which was much said during the 2010 elections, come from when Zsolt Hetesy, one of the operatives of the Gyurcsány government's repressive machine, knows and executes the darkest plans of the leadership, can be favored by the Fidesz government? Dear Minister, What's going on? Are we not talking about extortion, with which these people are effectively and constantly blackmailing your government? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-12-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Péter Szijjártó. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-09-12-67	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Deputy Chief of Staff, Thank you very much for bringing this up. First of all, allow me, unlike you, to stick to the facts, and let me tell you that István Szent-Iványi left the Ministry of Foreign Affairs just during my ministry, so not only did I appoint him, but he left the Ministry during my ministry. I didn't appoint János Kóka for anything. The company owned by him receives the same help from the foreign economic institution as everyone else's company, so I don't think that I should make any distinction between companies on a political basis, due to the political preference of the company owner or his previous state positions. I didn't lift Matthias Eörsi anywhere. The Hungarian government has nominated a man who has been working in that organization for years to lead an international organization. I'm just asking that if we're going to bring this up here in Parliament, at least respect the facts. You're saying that we consider foreign policy to be scheming. Look, in this connection, I can tell you that two years ago, when I was appointed as a minister, I did not hide under my concept that, in my view, Hungarian foreign policy is supposed to enforce Hungarian economic interests abroad, because we are a country with an extremely open economy. I do not think that foreign policy, Hungarian foreign policy, is for itself. There are large countries that can afford to do foreign policy in order to externalise. I think that Hungary is not in the world ranking to allow itself to do foreign policy only for foreign policy. I think that it is indeed an important task of foreign policy to pursue external economic interests, and I do not think that I should measure the performance of any diplomat by measuring how many receptions he has gone to; rather, I measure the performance of our delegations through the development of our trade relations with that country. For the sake of the facts alone, I would like to note that last year, 2015 was the first time that the entire foreign and external economic institutional system was integrated, and the result of last year is that the highest exports of all time were presented by the Hungarian economy, the highest foreign trade surplus of all time was presented by the Hungarian economy, and most of the investments have been made in Hungary through our investment promotion system. According to the first half of this year's data, we exceeded last year's record performance in exports, exceeded last year's record performance in terms of foreign trade surplus, and already this year, twice as much working capital, EUR 2.7 billion, came in through the investment promotion system as last year. About the two specific gentlemen you've asked me -- I don't want to go around your question -- here's what I can tell you. Zsolt Hetesy, who will be the first employee in the Washington embassy, has been the first employee in New York since 15 July 2012, at the UN representative of our country for more than four years. So what happens? What's happening? The first employee goes a few hundred kilometers away. He's been working there for four years. For four years, you have been a Member of Parliament for more than four years, you have not once asked how Zsolt Sevensy is the first member of our United Nations delegation. Now, interestingly, after four years, this topic became interesting - relatively slow response time. Regarding Ambassador József Czukor, he served as Ambassador from 2005 to 2009 in Ljubljana, and from 2010 until last year he served as Ambassador in Berlin. I have never heard any complaints from Jobbik or other political groups about József Czukor's performance. [[16.30]] So I think, honourable Member, that when we raise these professional-personal questions - obviously there were, there are, and there will be differences between us on this issue - I suggest that we always take into account all the facts. Thank you very much for raising this issue here in Parliament. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-12-68	Thank you very much, Minister. I will ask Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi if he will accept the Minister's reply.
u2016-09-12-69	Dear Minister, I cannot accept your reply, although I very much appreciate your efforts to distance yourself from the diplomacy of the second Orbán government led by former ministers Martonyi and Navracsics. I appreciate that effort, because I can see you're doing everything you can to make certain modifications to the wallet you've signed up for. However, I see that these changes are only partially welcome. At the same time, when you're putting people in position for the fired people, I see that you're using the most selected methods of contrast selection, from the Dunakess run team to the past of the MSZP-SZSZ era, and you're scrambling your people back from the trash heap with an amazing effort. So I see that the stated goals should be left to other types of people, otherwise the stated goals that you have made will not be met. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-12-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. As we have heard, Congressman did not accept the Minister's answer. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial reply by 109 votes in favour, 21 against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Szél, Erzsébet Schmuck and István Ikotity, representatives of the Group of the LMP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy. It's an address. I give the floor to Congressman István Ikotity. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-09-12-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The great campaign noise easily distracts attention from data showing the growing division of the country. While the government is talking about rising real wages, the average wage is saying less and less about the real state of the country. According to KSH's first half-year data, the income differences between the richest and poorest counties in the country have increased enormously. The net average salary in the first half of 2016 was 172 thousand forints, above which the only number of the 19 counties was Győr-Moson-Sopron and the capital. The highest wages in the capital have grown three times as fast as the smallest Szabolcsi salaries in the last year. The average wage in Budapest is nearly twice the salary of the employees in Szabolcs who earn $116 000 net, i.e. more than 100,000. Only two thirds of the national average is reached by workers from the easternmost county of the country. Szabolcs is also part of the region in the North Great Plain, which is one of the 20 poorest European regions each year. In the North Great Plain, 43 percent of the EU average is GDP per capita, and this has not changed under the governance of Fidesz. Four of the seven Hungarian regions are at the end of the line, with Bulgarian and Romanian regions in deep poverty. But the tragic split-up of the country is seen not only in wages but also in the development of retail sales. In the first quarter, there were unprecedented drastic differences between the capital city and the countryside. While people in 15 rural counties bought much less, traffic in the capital increased by nearly 20 percent. Employment also divides the country, and in the eastern counties of the country there is little job opportunity outside public work. Three-quarters of the new jobs in Borsod are public works, while 87 percent of the new jobs in Győr-Moson-Sopron County, for example, are not supported by market jobs. The decline in wages, the decline in rural purchasing power and the dominance of public work also show the real face of the Fidesz administration, Hungary becoming a two-speed Hungary, resulting in the migration of young people, the depopulation of the countryside and mass poverty. Today, the majority of the Hungarian countryside is hopelessly confined to public work that preserves poverty, and is at the mercy of the assembly companies working in Western Europe and the land policy in the South American direction. Dear Secretary of State, After six years of government, what has the government shown that it has done to eliminate the division of the country?
u2016-09-12-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer to the question raised will be Mr Péter Cseresnyés State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-09-12-73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would just like to say a few things because I am not sure what the government has done in the last six years, in order to see how we have been able to shape employment in rural areas, which are not the capital, in a positive direction, and how purchasing power has increased in these areas. He asked a question, a question, and asked questions in an area that has been here for a long time between Parliament's benches. We have answered many times as a question and many times as to the facts that help us move in a positive direction. This is a very deep-rooted problem, because if we went back to 40 years ago, we would see that the same problems, the same differences arose and could be said. Unfortunately, we have to say that we carry this set of problems with us, and in the last six years we have been trying to solve this set of problems, this difficult situation. For example, by delimiting beneficiary districts in 2014, which could benefit from socio-economic catch-up benefits, for example, they were given an additional point in the allocation of EU funds specifically in order to improve economic development and increase employment. In this context, we have established free business zones in which small and medium-sized enterprises have benefited from tax relief. If you look at the data - which I would not like to list factually now - you would see how many jobs have been created in these areas, how much new employment has been created. I would like to say one piece of data, because here it is mainly the SME sector, the largest employment sector: in 2013-2014 685 SMEs received a discount and job creation support of nearly HUF 10 billion, which has helped create 4 000 new jobs in some of the areas you have mentioned. With these advantages, precisely the regions that you have set an example of, for example, the GDP per capita in the North Hungary region has increased at a rate above the national average, in spite of what you have said. The results achieved are well illustrated by the 13 percentage points increase in employment since the government change in 2010. This means that the number of people employed increased from 54 to 55 per cent to 67 per cent, and this is exponentially true of those areas that have been highlighted. For example, employment increased by 22 percentage points in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County and 17 percentage points in Borsod. [[16.40]] But also to talk about wages: wages and retail sales show that not only employment but also wages have improved. Between 2010 and 2015, in the counties in the northern and eastern regions, the average of 31 per cent was the increase in value of purchases in terms of wage weight, if the wage weight is taken as a basis. For example, in peace, this increase was 41 percent, and again, as an increase in wages. But to talk not only about the wage weight, but also about the real wage development: you know that wages have increased by 7.5 percent. The national real wage increase was around 8 percent in the case of taking off public employment wages. Once again, I would like to mention from Szabolcs-Szatmár County that this area is catching up, not breaking down. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] : Real wages in this region increased by 9.2 percent in one year. My apologies, Mr. President, thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-12-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask Mr István Ikotity if he will accept the State Secretary's reply on behalf of the interpellers.
u2016-09-12-75	Dear Secretary of State, I appreciate the effort, but it shows the numbers and the facts that this government is not doing everything it can to change that. The Prime Minister also said in his speech before the agenda, with a great deal of self-righteousness when he mentioned this particular GNI indicator that the differences are not great compared to Western Europe. We do, and if we look at it, these differences are, unfortunately, increasing compared to the Visegrád countries. The problem is not that they are large in Western Europe, but that they are growing in Hungary. I think that, until the government realises that the fundamental problem is the approach that prefers to attract foreign capital and concentrate on a large rural city rather than to develop the local economy, instead of creating jobs from local circumstances, this will not change. I don't accept the answer. [[Erzsébet Schmuck applauds.]]
u2016-09-12-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. As we have heard, Congressman did not accept the State Secretary's reply on behalf of the inter-pellling Members. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 101 votes to 33, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Member Balázs Győrffy, representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:, Why does it hurt the opposition to bring Hungarian farmers to the ground? It's an address. Mr Balázs Győrffy has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-09-12-77	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Almost a year ago, a government decision was issued which introduced the measures of land sales to farmers under the programme. Since then, more than 200,000 hectares of land have been sold to farmers. I think it is important to emphasise the fact that some of our press and opposition colleagues are so pleased to forget that the land bid exceeded the local average prices by 10 percent, so in any case they were sold at a very good price, producing hundreds of billions of HUF. Why is that important? Remember, in the time of left-wing governments, it was typical that the country's wealth fell into foreign hands at the most depressed price. Whole sectors have been destroyed. Perhaps the collapse of the sugar industry, or rather its execution, was the most spectacular and painful of such a move. Hundreds of billions of state revenues were not very frequent, but the various loan packages were all the more frequent. One of the speakers on the left also has a programme for the transformation of the land traffic rules, which would allow the sale of the Hungarian land to foreign citizens and companies. From this point of view, it is really interesting to see how the entire opposition objects to the access of Hungarian farmers to land. From manure cover to failed referendum initiative, everything has happened, but all opponents are silent about how many Hungarian farmers have access to land, how many have been helped to increase the stability of their economies, and how the state now manages the country's assets. [[Zoltán Grimlock keeps interrupting.]] I ask the Secretary of State how many hectares of land were announced during the programme, how many hectares of land were found in the auctions. Exactly how much revenue has been generated, what is the government expected to use this amount for? What is the size distribution of the land sold? How does the program affect the land structure of the country? How many objections have been made during the auctions, how have they been investigated? Overall, how does the government assess the results of the."Earth for farmers" programme so far, and what is their view of the failed referendum initiative? I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-09-12-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Balázs Győrffy, State Secretary Bitay Márton Örs responds to his interpellation question. I would ask my fellow Members in MSZP to ensure that Mr Secretary of State can tell us. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-09-12-79	Thank you very much. I understand, Mr President, Mr Zoltán Gőgös is obviously very upset that he has entered into such a failed campaign. That is why we forgive him for being so passionate about this question. [[16.50]] Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for asking that question. I heard they were trying to make fun of him here from the opposition benches, but we can't expect them to ask how it actually turned out. We were talking about farmers being very dissatisfied with this program, about a public uproar surrounding the land sale program, and we were talking about something nasty happening here, which is being done by the National Land Fund Manager under government control. And see a miracle. What happened? Almost 30,000 farmers bought from the land sale program. As a reference, you know as the President of the Chamber of Agriculture, but for the sake of the kind representatives, there are 100,000 farmers in Hungary who can buy land. It is a very good program, where one third of them were somehow involved in this land sale program. I am also very pleased that 70 percent of the announced, nearly 290 thousand hectares of agricultural land were found to be farmers, and these lands were purchased by farmers. You mentioned the prices. Just to be specific, not only did these fields sell for more than average prices, but they sold them for nearly double the average prices published by the recent public and credible Central Statistical Office. So the average price for selling these lands was more than double the usual price. Thus, an amount of around HUF 250 billion entered the state register. I would also like to mention that the many auction days, which took place for more than ten months, were obviously only possible with the help of government officials. I would also like to thank them for practically running land sales programmes without problems, despite the various provocations. What I would like to bring here in particular, since you mentioned it, is the question of referendum, because it does have interesting things in it, which, at some point, will be worth considering, perhaps, what the background might really be. The socialist representatives started the collection of signatures on 23 February, to which the LMP joined. On 17 June, 200,000 signatures were announced, so the decisive referendum could be held. Then, on June 28, just ten days later, they signed slightly more than 220,000 signatures. That's interesting in itself. I used to do this kind of party work, collect signatures. I would like to congratulate you on the fact that at the last moment of the collection of signatures, the number of signatures reached such a huge increase, because it is more common at the beginning, it was my personal experience, it worked, in the end not so much. And what God gives, what he doesn't, is the published press release of the National Election Office reveals some interesting things. For example, it's in between the signatures, which was a photocopy. It's a lifelike version, by the way. [[Zoltán Grimlock keeps interrupting.]] Or there was someone who signed the initiative 12 times. But it's very interesting, because one of these is valid, 11 are invalid, which also raises interesting questions. But the most interesting thing is, they remember the number 20,000, 200,000, 220,000. The identification is unsuccessful, because of the complete or significant deviation of personal data, there are 20 678 pieces in these sheets. The fact is, my dear Member, I am afraid that, like the 1948 Blue Ticket elections, the left has not been able to achieve any other result in the referendum or election initiative. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-09-12-80	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Zoltán Haughty! Congressman Zoltán Haughty! Don't force me to act under disciplinary authority. [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] Congressman! In particular, do not say that, because it would therefore be subject to a different assessment. Now, Balázs Győrffy... make it possible for Congressman Balázs Győrffy to tell you whether or not to accept the State Secretary's answer. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-09-12-81	Thank you very much. Obviously, I will disappoint the opposition colleagues, but I accept the answer, and I thank the government for the opportunity it gave the Hungarian countryside, Hungarian farmers, by being able to expand their territories and in a very strict competitive situation that stands before us, they have a better chance of looking into the future. In any case, I would like to emphasise in Mr. Secretary of State's reply that 70 percent have been sold at about double prices and 250 billion forints of revenues have been generated by this for the Hungarian State. I think it was a mutually good deal. The State has achieved a good turnover by selling an asset that you have not used and whose hands it is in, and they will take advantage of it. And the fact that my fellow opposition Members may be sensitive, is understandable, since tens of thousands of signatures have been forged, which is indeed, Mr Secretary of State, worth a mass. This is a very serious event, because I think that both the MSZP [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] all LMPs will have to respond later. Thank you very much.
u2016-09-12-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. As we have heard, the congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Member László Szakács, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. Did you know that? Today, the surgeries in Hungary are falling short, hospitals are in a state of bankruptcy, and most of the healthcare workers are emigrating? It's an address. Congressman László Kács, please.
u2016-09-12-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The Knew campaign, information campaign, where millions of posters, millions of posters, millions of small blue booklets were added to the Hungarian residents, in which you inform the Hungarian population about the details of a completely unnecessary referendum, and you spend billions on them. They won't tell us how much, but based on expert calculations, it must have cost Hungarian taxpayers around HUF 8 billion, as long as you've informed me, this hasn't even been a campaign. As long as you have money for these - not too little, many: 8 billion forints, this is a Hungarian midtown, a two-year budget for a 20,000 city - on the other hand, Hungarians who are not informed by you, who are not provided by you, for example, that 24 surgeries have been lost at the Heim Pál Hospital. 24 children lost surgery because they weren't enough anesthetists. We know from parents who told us that they took leave because they knew that they were having their child's surgery, and then this surgery was canceled. They can't make up for it because the O.R.'s taken. And you didn't do anything about it. They're campaigning, which shows that this country doesn't have a government, it's a campaign team. We continue to see that a series of surgeries will be cancelled and a series of surgeries will be lost. The Director General also acknowledged this, and said in the press several times that several of these surgeries would be cancelled due to lack of capacity, lack of doctors or poor funding. But of course, we also saw it, and this summer a lot of people learned what child hospice is. Children's hospice, thanks to God, has been kindly known so far, to children and parents whose children suffer from a fatal illness, will not live through adulthood, and no institutional system in Hungary will provide for their care or care for parents. There are two of them in Hungary, none of them receive normative support. One of them is the Dóri House in Pécs. You weren't interested in the fact that in Pécs in the summer the lights at the House of Dóri were turned off, the electricity was turned off, the workers weren't getting their wages, and I think it's a situation no one ever wants to face, a situation where someone who accidentally gets mixed up here has to give everything. They should also be given normative support and all kinds of assistance should be given. I'm asking you: how many surgeries will you miss in 2016 because of your campaign? Can the patronesses get their pay supplement, and what do they do to keep professionals from leaving Hungary and caring for the children? Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-09-12-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-09-12-85	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, On the basis of the reality of your speech, I would just like to say that - I would quote it literally - you said that, according to the Director General, surgeries would be delayed at the Heim Pál Hospital. The Director General of the Heim Pál Hospital is called Nagy Aniko, so the Director General said that the figure of speech is certainly not correct. I'm sure you've heard someone, but that wasn't the director general of the hospital, so please prepare yourself a little more thoroughly at another time if you're making such accusations to the government, because no permanent surgery has been delayed, of course, anywhere. There are planned surgeries, the location of which can obviously be replaced by an urgent procedure, but this can only be done if someone has to be treated urgently. Heim Pál Hospital has also undergone several improvements in recent months, in recent years, I would say. I was there myself in December of last year, getting new instruments. If you look at the hospital now and look at the hospital outside, say, two years ago, there's a difference. You can see that the buildings have been completely renewed, they have become colorful from the outside, they have become more child-friendly. This does not mean that we should not give further subsidies. Of course, we will give, of course we will give to the Heim Pál Hospital, but we bought instruments that we might have liked ten years before, if they had bought or at least provided resources for it. You said that the referendum is unnecessary from a health point of view. Honourable Congressman, I think we're going to be talking about this today. There is a huge risk to the Hungarian health system, not only because new diseases can be introduced into Europe, not only because old diseases that have already come out of Europe can reappear, and not only because immigrants have barely participated in health screenings, and only a fraction of those who have participated have waited for this result, which also poses an epidemiological risk for Europe; but also because if Brussels's forced resettlement quota were to be implemented, we would have to build a new hospital infrastructure in Hungary to the extent that means a whole city of hospital equipment or expansion in basic care, not to mention how much language or other differences would cost the procedure. Mass immigration, illegal immigration and uncontrolled immigration pose a huge risk to Hungarian health. But we also heard the program of the Hungarian Socialist Party in the summer, in the middle of August, about what it offers to health workers, and in the budget approved by Fidesz-KDNP, we can see who offers what to healthcare workers. We said that from 1 September this year the Hungarian government has offered both doctors and nurses a wage increase. For nurses, 26,5 percent, followed by another 12 percent, then 8 percent, for four years. This means that the wages of health care workers increase by 65.5 percent. About as much as the share of Fidesz-KDNP in parliamentary support here, to the same extent. In the case of doctors, 107,000 forints will be insured from 1 September this year, and in the next year an additional 100 thousand forints will be insured. In the middle of the summer, in mid-August, the Hungarian Socialist Party held a press conference to tell us how much he would offer to healthcare workers. Compared to the current state, this means that nothing would change compared to the 2008 period when you took 8 percent of the wages from health workers, since according to the Socialist Party's promises, a college-educated worker would be reduced by HUF 61 412 compared to the current one; a doctor would lose a net salary of HUF 171 738 compared to current conditions; and for pharmacists, the salary would also be reduced by HUF 135 341 compared to what Fidesz-KDNP offers. I mean, we offered a raise for basic wages, mobile wages, absentee fees, jubilee rewards, in all ways. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Socialists would just take you away from health care, just like they did before. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-09-12-86	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Mr László Szakács if he will accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-09-12-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, You've got your point, you can see that. You're right, I should have said chief. But the facts are still facts: 24 surgeries were canceled, and in the press, the Chief Medical Officer announced this, and you did not deny it. That's one of them. The other one. I understand the campaign text that was sent over to you this morning in the communiqué instructions, you read it. You haven't answered a single question. I understand that, too. That's your job, that's your job, although I think it would be to answer me. You won't say a word about child hospice. It would cost Hungary 5 million forints, it would cost 5 million forints. [[Intruders, loud noises.]] It would cost 5 million forints a month. We have just tabled an amendment, Mr Secretary of State, which would ensure the predictable income of these children's hospices. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] which you do not maintain. You'll have to support that, then you'll have something to talk about. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of MSZP. - Dr. Bence Rétvári: We've raised your funding twice! We raised it twice! Why didn't you support the double raise in the summer?]] [[17.00]]
u2016-09-12-88	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply, so I ask you if you will accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes in favour, 30 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:, Why has the school start increased during their governance? It's an address. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-09-12-89	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Two surveys, independent of government and parties, show that this year the start of the school year imposed a greater financial burden on families than in 2014: parents had to spend an average of 12 thousand forints more per child than they did two years ago. In addition, during the autumn, families have to spend more than 80,000 forints for this purpose, many of which are forced to save on these expenses for five months. It is not normal for almost half of the year to go away by saving parents a decent education obligation. I know that in his reply he will list the measures that have made the start of the school year cheaper, but overall, what happened during your governance is that the cost of training a child has increased over the past two years. There is therefore a need for further measures, because we cannot now call on the government to say that there is too little reduction, but, on the contrary, unfortunately, we cannot talk about any reduction. In addition to the increase in financial burdens, they could not guarantee legal certainty in vocational training; the regulation required for the start of the year was issued only on 25 August. It is therefore clear that the appropriate preparation time was not available for teachers to have sufficient knowledge of these documents and to provide the conditions for teaching by 1 September. And from the government's authorities, we've heard such cynical statements that they trust teachers. Secretary of State, this is good, but with this delay, they did not express their trust in them, but they put them in an unworthy position, putting the teacher society on the stand, expecting a pace and effort that they would not have had to experience during a government with a predictable vision of the future, a mature educational concept. Perhaps this is also the reason that professional high schools were able to fill up 56.3% of the number of students, even worse than vocational schools, with only 38.8 percent of enrollers. Nevertheless, the demands of the profession continue to be negative, as they did during the creation of the KLIK or even the transformation of the textbook market. I got the results. On this basis, I ask Mr Secretary of State whether measures are being taken to reduce the burden on families to start school, for example by radically reducing the VAT on articles needed to raise children. Can teachers expect not to put them in such an unworthy position and stop rushing to education? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-12-90	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. I thank you for your cooperation and I give the chair to Vice-President István Jakab. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2016-09-12-91	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, First of all, allow me to show you exactly how you came out of spending more money now, say, on textbooks and schooling than in previous years. Luckily, these are calculations found in a public database, which is why it is very simple to find out that Jobbik, which seems to be relying now on Népszabadság as a serious, independent and non-party source. [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: Hungarian Times!]] and takes the various figures from where the data are distorted. Of course, if we look at the real data, they do not show what you are saying, but that the amount of families spent on textbooks has decreased by 34.6 percent; it also says that multi-children, large family members, are assisted by a number of discounts, which reduces the costs of schooling; and it talks about the fact that the increase in incomes, at the same time, affects the growth of expenditure in Hungarian, because they have more income for a family, can spend more on starting school, and individual needs and opportunities determine who buys what, but there are more opportunities to buy for children to start school. What you refer to, Congresswoman, as a calculation, comparing the state of the years ago to the state of the present, is a calculation that takes everyone into account when it comes to starting school, except for those who receive textbooks free of charge. This distorts the pattern to a large extent, if only 733 414 students are excluded from the calculations, and their families, who receive the tank book free of charge, because obviously more and more people are getting free textbooks, skipping them, year after year one more year, from here the first four years, next year the first five years are greatly distorted. And by the way, a higher figure can come out for anyone, because if we ignore all the first four classes now, then obviously an eighth grader has a more expensive textbook package than a third grader, if I only start out with eighth graders and remove those from the sample who are in grade 1, 2, 3, 4 then I can get a little higher amount. However, honourable Member, it does not put forward that, overall, more and more people will receive textbooks free of charge, if we have the opportunity to continue governing the country, then we will try to make the purchase of textbooks free for the entire primary school class 1-8 in the next three years. And thus, this will not be a social benefit, as before, but a part of family support, everyone who has a child in Hungary can expect that if the child goes to school, the textbook will not cost money, because the state will pay for it, on the same subjective right as everyone else, let us say, the family tax allowance, there is nothing else to do. [[In the notary seat Dr. Lajos Szűcs will be replaced by József Attila Móring.]] This is why the cost spent on the textbook is reduced in all sections: if I compare 2014 to 2016, it will be 24 percent; if I compare 2013 to 2016, 40 percent; if I compare 2014 to 2016, 30 percent. There is no period in which we do not see a reduction in the amount to be spent by families. And besides, it is a woman that stays with the families, because in an average family, with the family-type tax discount, 20 thousand HUF per month and 240 thousand HUF per year, there is an additional source. That is why KSH also says about the beginning of this year's school year that families have more resources for starting school year, they can spend more on it; but not because the cost of textbook packages is increasing, as families get them free of charge. As far as vocational training framework curricula are concerned, very briefly: these were first published in early June, then there was a professional debate, where the new approach and the new content were addressed in various forums, and thus the new content was prepared before the start of the academic year. We hope that all teachers can prepare and can do so in the coming weeks and months. [[In the notary seat, Dezső Believing is replaced by Loránt Hegedűs.]] Today, it has been said that there are 100,000 vacant posts in Hungary, that precisely vocational training needs to be flexible enough to fill this 100,000 jobs as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-12-92	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2016-09-12-93	Secretary of State, the legislation was published on 25 August, under which it must be taught on 1 September. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: It was on the Internet!]] Who you were arguing with before is, I'm sorry, not part of legal certainty at all. What was included in the legislation is what was relevant, based on which teachers had to prepare for the 1st of September. Once again, you have been extremely cynical in trusting teachers, and you have been constantly preparing, and by the start of the school year, you have not been able to ensure the safety of starting vocational training. He talks about statistical distortions that Jobbik distorts statistics, and I'm sorry, two commercial companies surveyed the same result or very similar results. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: One of them is Népszabadság!]] We're talking price rises in both of them. And the fact that parents, according to their own statement, save for five months for school start-ups is not normal in our opinion. The last time I had Népszabadság in my hand, I don't even know his time anymore. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-12-94	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes to 107, 27 against, with two abstentions. Dear Parliament, István Hollik, a representative of KDNP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. How does the day care system change? It's an address. It is for Congressman István Hollik. [[17.10]]
u2016-09-12-95	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Vice President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As in recent years, the Hungarian government has tried to develop the country's social care system in line with its potential in both this year and the coming years, giving all the help to those in need, first and foremost to families. As a representative of KDNP, I am particularly pleased that a comprehensive reform of the cradle care system can be undertaken with the establishment of a new operational order on 1 January 2017. Next year, parents will be able to enroll their children under three years of age in a traditional nursery, a minib, a nursery at work, or even a family nursery. In addition, from 1 January onwards, it is mandatory to provide daycare services to municipalities in whose territory at least 40 children under three years of age live or where there are at least five children whose parents require this type of care. Although Hungary has an internationally recognised crèche system, this network can be adapted even more to the needs of families. In this respect, the government has already achieved important results, as according to the statistics of the Statistical Office, while in 2000, there were 532, 749 crèches throughout the country last year, and more importantly, almost 40,000 children were able to be placed in the crèches by the parents compared to about 25,000 places at the time, and this year, together with the family day-care facilities, this number was 47,000. According to the government's plans and hopes, the system can expand further, making this type of public service available to more families. In terms of financial expenditure, Hungary spends well above average amounts of GDP to support families. The Fidesz-KDNP government will further improve this share of the new system that will be launched from January. Dear Secretary of State, In relation to the above, I would like to ask the Secretary of State what concrete steps we can expect in relation to the new nursery care system that will start at the beginning of next year and what funds the government has at its disposal. What can the cradle run by non-government, i.e. ecclesiastical or ethnic, or civil society organisations expect? How could the government and what possible additional measures are planned by the government in order to improve the living conditions of children and families in the future? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-12-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Katalin Veresné Novák responds to the interpellation. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
u2016-09-12-97	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Thank you for this question, because I think you too, as a father with a baby, and as a mother of three, have experienced the great challenge of working and wanting to keep your children safe. If you cannot take care of your children or have no grandparent help, you may not be able to afford a babysitter, then turning to the nursery care system can be of great help. The development of daycare is part of a longer-term process, an important element of the government's family policy, as we have also set ourselves the goal of supporting childbearing, avoiding obstacles to childbearing, and at the same time supporting families who are already raising children, working parents who are already raising children. This work-family balance is also helped by the development of the nursery system, which is not a unique step, since it has several elements. This includes, by the way, the extra introduction of ged, which also supports the work-family balance, the amendment of the labour code or the development of part-time employment, or the introduction of a job protection action. The transformation of the cradle system consists of several elements: one of these important elements is the expansion of seats, the creation of new cradle seats; the other is the development of related legislation, the launch of the new type of cradle system from 1 January next year; the third element is the recognition, in financial terms, of daycare workers. As far as the new type of nursery care system is concerned, as the Member has asked, it is important to know or a very important element here that nursery care will be available to a lot more families than before. Currently, legislation only requires municipalities over 10 000 people to organise day care. From 1 January, this will change so that in all settlements with a minimum of 40 small children under three years of age, or in any settlement where at least 5 children's parents require this in at least three years, the municipality will have an obligation to organise nursery care. They can do this more flexibly than in the present: besides traditional nurserys, they can also operate mini-cradles, family daycare centers are replaced by family nurserys, and we will also provide financial support for the creation of daycare centers at work. Therefore, local authorities and civilians will not be left alone to carry out this task, as we will both improve budget support and funding in 2017 and support the creation of seats from development sources. Only 100 billion HUF is available for kindergarten and kindergarten development in the next development cycle, so this is such a significant item, there will be such a development resource for each type of nursery separately. Total funding will exceed the 2010 grant amount by 30 percent by 2017, totaling HUF 14 billion in the 2017 budget, and funding for each type of nursery will be improved. The same funding, support will be given to the mini-cradle, and family crèches will be able to operate with 30 percent better funding. We also did a lot to recognise daycare workers: we added 900 higher education graduates to the pedagogical career, their wages increased by HUF 40-60 thousand per month, and another 3.5 percent from 1 September. One and a half billion HUF is available in next year's budget for the wage increase of secondary day care workers, and the training shows that two and a half times as many have applied for higher education as in the previous year. A ministerial Commissioner is now dealing with this area, which also indicates how important it is for us to be able to help working families to supervise young children during the day. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-12-98	I thank the Secretary of State for her reply. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2016-09-12-99	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your answer. It was comforting to hear that the Fidesz-KDNP government is really doing everything it can to improve the nursery care system and adapt it to the challenges of today, giving mothers the opportunity to go to work before the age of three of their children, and if they can't do it otherwise, they can give their child to the nursery. I would like to ask the Secretary of State, as this has been said several times in this meeting today, that the Government's intention to create full employment, which, by the way, will create new challenges for the nursery care system in the future, is to continue to make it possible for those who need it to use the nursery care system. Thank you very much. I accept your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-12-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:.The Hungarian economic reforms do not work. It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor.
u2016-09-12-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In the summer, KSH published several important macroeconomic data, which do not forecast a rosy picture of the Hungarian economy. One of the biggest problems is that we are still heavily dependent on EU funding. After the bad quarterly KSH investment data released last week, another monthly data was received, showing a rather weak industrial performance: the Hungarian industry's output was down 4.7 percent compared to a year ago. The figures are clear: without EU funds, the Hungarian economy is stagnating, its own investment rate is critically low, its public welfare systems are very quickly on the brink. Today, the Hungarian economy is more dependent on external dependence than when government was taken over: we depend on the export of low-wage multinationals established here, we depend on Russian energy imports, and we depend on EU subsidies, while there are serious problems with which the government can't do anything or cause itself: emigration, the decline in education and health care. [[17.20]] Tax cuts to the wealthy did not become a domestic entrepreneur, and some oligarchs stuffed with public money did not create a multiplicative effect, but only carry the money. Another main reason for this failure is that EU funds have been wasted and stolen. Well, there's less and less left, and there's going to be more and more serious consequences. If there is no EU money, there is no development in education, in the social sphere, in health care, in small businesses. EU money will still have a two-year peak, which is likely to end. The world economy environment is changing, and it is not impossible for a crisis like 2008 to happen again. In this case, the collapse of the assembly multinationals giving the backbone of the Hungarian economy can bring the entire economy to its knees. Dear Secretary of State, When do you realize that the domestic economy is not being developed by impertinently priced orders from certain friends' companies, but only by programmes with a wide range of continuous demand, such as the previously promised building energy programme or the continuous renovation of rural lower main roads? When they realize that the draining of EU funds is not an apology sin, some kind of useful original capital accumulation, but the stripping of the country of an opportunity that does not come back. And finally, when do you realize that the economic model based on cheap wage work will not put the country on a development path? When will they start to develop small domestic businesses, education and human capital and the countryside? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2016-09-12-102	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary András Tállai responds to the interpellation. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-09-12-103	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and Gentlemen, The only new thing in his speech was that he now said it as a faction leader. [[Defiance.]] Moreover, I must say in its content that it was a speech that was completely unreal, not based on facts, rather based on political emotions and political sentiments, in which the word failure and crisis in relation to the Hungarian economy would be mentioned, so they would probably smile on you not only in the Hungarian Parliament, but also in any parliament of Europe, the European Union, because the performance of the Hungarian economy can be admired and envied by any country of the European Union. After all, if we recall the situation in 2010, there was no economic growth in Hungary, a growing government deficit, rising public debt, household foreign exchange debt, external vulnerability of the Hungarian economy, very poor labour force, double-digit unemployment, and indeed the government can deliver results in all areas. It can show up in the context of the budget deficit, as it has been permanently pushed below 3 per cent, and it is expected that this year it will be below 2 per cent of the budget deficit. There are several components to this. One of the most important things is that the tax revenue collected from the black economy has increased significantly in Hungary. And the result of this is that we have managed to reduce the level of public debt, since now Hungary is not characterised by increasing public debt, but by declining debt. While, by the way, the level of public debt has increased in the Member States of the European Union in recent years and exceeded 85%, this was around 75% in Hungary by the end of 2015. And the biggest achievement of the Hungarian economy, which you are otherwise demoting, is an indicator of economic growth. In the last quarter, the overall economic product has increased by 2.6 percent, second in terms of EU countries. On average, only 1.8 percent of the economy has grown in the European Union. If the Hungarian economic reforms did not work, these figures would not be here before us and we could not say that this is real. In other respects, the performance of the Hungarian economy must be recognised. I do not understand why you say in a negative sense that the increase in consumption, which has increased by 9 percent in recent years, is a negative trend. This also has a real impact on the outcome of economic growth. But we can also measure the performance of the Hungarian economy in other results, with the exclusion of foreign exchange loans, with a significant improvement in unemployment data. While unemployment in the euro area is above 10 per cent, in Hungary only 5 per cent. Hungary's performance is recognised by the IMF, the European Union recognises it, and credit rating agencies recognise it, for example, because Fitch has raised the debt rating of Hungary to an investment category, and this year, even two other credit rating agencies are expected to give positive opinions on Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mrs. Freckles! You are mistaken when you say that Hungarian economic reforms do not work, but that they also work in recognition at international level. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-12-104	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2016-09-12-105	I don't accept the answer. Mr State Secretary, I am not surprised by your admiration for the performance of the Hungarian economy, because if that were not the case, you should obviously resign and not give me such wonderful answers. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that behind the window of these fine financial data are the deteriorating processes of the real economy and society. You didn't deny anything. Even though there is low inflation on the surface, a few percent real wage rise or moderate GDP growth, the fact is that the countryside is breaking down, emigration is accelerating, labour shortages are increasing, education is bled out, health is in a critical situation. [[Dr. Péter Hoppál: Against! Go down to the country, just the opposite.]] I can't accept your answer.
u2016-09-12-106	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congresswoman did not accept the State Secretary's reply, and I ask the Honourable Parliament whether she accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 100 votes in favour, 29 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, Mónika Dunai, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources with the title "Unfortunate help for families raising children." Congresswoman Mónika Dunai has the floor.
u2016-09-12-107	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Since 2010, the Fidesz-KDNP Fraction Association has made every effort to keep more money with families, thus reducing the burden of starting school. Two thirds of students, a total of 734 thousand children, received the textbook package free of charge at the start of this year's school year. This means that each minor child and from the fifth to the 12th grade parents of those in social need are exempt from the corresponding expenditure. At the same time, the price of textbooks continues to decrease, with an average decrease of 40 percent since 2013. This leaves a significant amount of money in the pockets of families. On the other hand, the left would make textbooks once again a market product, which would cause an immediate and general bookstore explosion. It is also important to point out that next year there will be HUF 450 billion more in education than in the last budget submitted by the left in 2010. The amount spent on children's meals is also growing, the largest since the change of regime: nearly HUF 72 billion is spent on children's meals. Only 29 billion were spent on this in 2010. Children in need are also provided with a daily free meal during holidays, in Hungary a large proportion of children in kindergarten and kindergarten can eat free in the institutions, while the number of right holders has increased from 93 thousand to 318 thousand. The Fidesz-KDNP pays great attention to making sure that everyone can take a step forward. This is reflected in the 2017 budget already adopted. Family income tax reduced to 15 percent, family-type taxation, first-married tax relief, home-building support and reduction of the general turnover tax on basic foods are a great help. [[17 .30]] Ladies and gentlemen, Our goal with family-type taxation is that parents can keep as much of their earning income as possible and turn it on their children. This means that today in Hungary a family of three children with average income does not actually have to pay. More and more people are familiar with the tax relief of the first married couple. In 2015, 20,000 people made use of it, and this year 13 500 people applied for 5 thousand HUF per month. Dear Secretary of State, What further results do family measures have, and what further positive changes can families expect? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-09-12-108	Thank you, Congresswoman. State Secretary Katalin Veresné Novák responds to the interpellation. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
u2016-09-12-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, In 2010, the government announced a family-friendly turnaround. A family-friendly turn of events means that we govern in a family-friendly, family-oriented way, and we do our best to support childbearing and support child rearing. According to our government, children and families are valuable, to live in a precious family. The Congresswoman has listed in quite detail the measures that we have taken in recent years. I would like to highlight some of these. We have indeed introduced family-type taxation, and we have actually introduced a family-friendly tax system. We have done a lot to support job creation and employment. We have introduced the 40, which we can call a grandmother's pension, as it helps in particular that after 40 years of entitlement and service, grandmothers can be there for grandchildren. It's important to have a job security operation. We have done much, as we have just said, to improve the nursery system. But I wouldn't forget that we brought back the three-year-old child that was taken away by a socialist government in front of us by ending the third year of the child. I would like to say a few more thoughts about the home creation programme. Before that, however, I would also like to present you with statistics that may reflect that these family policy measures have not been in vain. The fact that family policy measures are effective also shows that young people are becoming more confident, that couples are becoming more confident, because more and more people are getting married, more and more people are being committed to each other. I find the data that reflect the fact that the number of marriages in Hungary decreased by 23 percent between 2002 and 2010. The same figure shows a 30% increase in 2010 and 2015. So the omens are completely opposite, and the proportions have been very exciting. This trend improved further in 2016, as the number of marriages increased by 19 percent compared to 2015 only in the first half. The same can be seen in children's willingness, as the best indicator of this, the fertility index, the fertility rate, increased by 15 percent in just four years. So these figures also reflect the fact that we may be on the right track with regard to the government's family policy, that these trends can give rise to confidence. A few more thoughts about our home-building program. It should be recalled that there was a program in Hungary, perhaps not called home creation, called Socpol. I think the CSOK is a much better name, by the way, but even this Socpol was abolished in 2009, during the Bajnai government. During this period, there was absolutely no home creation programme in Hungary. Compared to this, we introduced both VAT reductions at the construction site and the possibility of reclaiming VAT, as well as national home-building communities. We have also facilitated home creation in such a way that we have also significantly simplified construction regulations and introduced the CSOK, the non-refundable aid that has now been used by tens of thousands of families. Since the introduction on 1st July last year, we have been able to give 50 billion HUF in support to families in this way, and in the 2017 budget we intend to spend more than 210 billion HUF on this home creation programme. Interest is huge, we can help many families to live in decent conditions, a suitable home, and to wait for their children in such circumstances. But we could talk about textbook care or the expansion of children's meals. As far as the future is concerned, I believe that our most important ambition is to preserve these achievements in the long term and to show our commitment in the long term, which is also reflected in budget expenditure, as we are spending 4 percent of GDP on family support in Hungary compared to the OECD 2,55% average. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-09-12-110	I thank the Secretary of State for her reply. I'll ask the congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2016-09-12-111	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The secretary of state was not easy, since it is not easy to talk about the government's family policy measures and results in a four-minute timeframe even at the level of listing. I think that all these achievements, which the Fidesz-KDNP government and the Group Alliance have achieved since 2010, prove that Hungarian families can count on the Hungarian government and count on the Fidesz-KDNP faction association. Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. I'll take it. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-09-12-112	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The congresswoman accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, László Kiss, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy. ? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-09-12-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, A new situation in vocational training has emerged from 1 September, not only by ringing the bell, but also by a completely new system governing the lives of the institutions. Specialized schools are now called vocational secondary schools, vocational secondary schools are called vocational high schools. But there's no change in that. There is also a new system for organising education. We must have gotten used to you turning the education system upside down every year, which is what we can see now. One day before the start of the school year, for example, they published framework plans to define the curriculum, the schedule, so schools must have either been able to adapt to it or not have been able to do so. I leave it to everyone's imagination whether this job could be done in one day. In previous vocational schools, there are a total of 6 hours a week for all that is neither physical education nor profession. There will also be fewer public education classes in previous vocational schools. This is a very drastic reduction; otherwise, in addition to the fact that in vocational schools the number of hours of these subjects has already been reduced to one third, and this continues throughout vocational training. The conflicting, unthinkable measures keep students, parents and teachers in a constant state of uncertainty. Obviously, this also makes it difficult for young people in vocational training to set their own career picture. Practically every day the educational content changes, and every day the ways in which people can get access to education are changing. So schools, children and their parents can only learn about the supply at the last minute. Children taking part in vocational training are excluded from the possibility of further education, as public education is reduced to a minimum and the perspective of self-education and re-training is also lost. But they do not give them the ability to adapt to changes in the economy, as every day you hear that vocational training that is created in the school system cannot compete with OKJ training. Dear Secretary of State, Why do they want to exclude knowledge and further education from the students involved in vocational training? When will these framework curricula that we can see be final, are they part of a completed experiment or part of a restarted experiment? Are there textbooks compatible with new master plans? Or is it only later that students and teachers get textbooks compared to this? How do you intend to ensure that students who study there who wish to graduate from vocational education and training can study compulsory public education courses with appropriate content? I look forward to the Secretary of State's reply.
u2016-09-12-114	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-09-12-115	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for your question, thank you very much for your interpellation in this matter, because your indiscretion can be reduced a little, since you have found in your sentences untruths that do not stand the test of reality. [[István Tukacs: Go to the schools! That's all!]] I would like to enlighten you with a few thoughts on how vocational training changed from 1 September, and I hope that you will ask questions more closely later. [[17.40]] We should start from the fact that the labour market, companies, had a very serious need for skilled workers and almost asked for a reform of the vocational training system. I am sure you have heard and heard about vocational training in the dual system, which is one of the elements of this training system. Vocational training and vocational training institutions have started in a new form, meeting this need and being prepared for quite a long time. And then some specific things: vocational high school and vocational training institutions, which will now be vocational secondary schools. From the beginning of July, the work materials of the vocational education and training framework programmes were available, and teachers had access to the public. Based on this, the schools could set up the schedule for the new school year, and the teachers could begin to prepare. During the summer, the work papers of the framework curricula were further clarified in order to finalise, but this was already almost entirely up in the form available to teachers on the websites at the end of July. However, it became known, and that is why I had to say in my introduction that perhaps it was because of the lack of knowledge that the change did not affect the course frames and content of the compulsory exams in vocational schools, so that they would be the same as before, and students would learn the same thing. Vocational training takes place in vocational secondary schools that have been transformed from vocational schools according to previous training content and framework. The important novelty of this type of school, unlike what you have been trying to suggest, is the possibility of moving forward directly after the completion of the vocational training phase in the course of pre-graduate training, so you can graduate, who enters this school, with graduation. In fact, vocational training has ceased as a dead end, and there is no dead end that has often been mentioned for those who have entered vocational school, a three-year education. In view of the above, available textbooks can provide textbook requirements in the same way as in previous years, as well as teaching material can be obtained from elsewhere. It should be recognised that the tight deadlines required work from all stakeholders, but due to urgent economic needs, this step had to be implemented in order to ensure that scheduled vocational training developments could provide an ever-increasing, meaningful and high-quality training opportunity for young people who are entering vocational training or returning to vocational training as soon as possible. I hope that what you have outlined here will not happen even by accident, because there were no signs of this at the start of vocational training, only a few news reports have tried to suggest that the launch of vocational training is at risk. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-12-116	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2016-09-12-117	Thank you for the floor. Speaking of Jenő Hidden, all you can handle is compliments, and that's not what I gave you. It's a little strange to me that, as a teacher practicing my life in vocational training, I get this back from someone who, by the way, had nothing to do with this area before that I have a lack of information. It is safe to say that the institutional system of vocational training was very good, because there have been leadership applications all summer, and there have been scandalous applications in many institutions, and despite the fact that it was only one tender, because your kissers have not yet completed the appropriate schools. It is a scandal, by the way, that you are transforming the institutional system and transforming it into a new course in such a way that the curriculum design itself has not been properly carried out, which covers the whole spectrum of vocational training, despite what the Secretary of State has said. I can't accept your answer, because it's perfectly far from what you're saying.
u2016-09-12-118	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 106 votes in favour, 31 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Gábor Staudt, a representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:. Could terrorists also purchase residence rights in Hungary? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of Interior, who is competent and competent on the subject, responds to the interpellation on behalf of Mr Károly Kontra. Congressman Gábor Staudt has the floor.
u2016-09-12-119	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, With regard to the settlement bond structure, we already knew that the business of the century, on which everyone can make a lot of money, except for the Hungarian state and taxpayers. Mostly offshore companies have exclusive rights to sell, who receive bonds at discount prices, and also collect a commission of around EUR 45-60 thousand per person, thus the benefits of intermediary companies can exceed HUF 100 billion. In the meantime, concrete analyses were published in the press, which revealed personal links between intermediary companies and Antal Rogán and Árpád Habony. We saw nothing of the promised job creation promises, and in an interview, our honorary Consul in Bahrain praised the construction by saying that in Hungary it is only enough to pay the money compared to any other EU country, and in return the buyer can bring his entire family, who can all travel and do business freely in the EU. The above are already knife-opening in themselves, but according to the latest news, it goes beyond that and suggests that fidesc greed can pose a national security risk. According to Magyar Nemzet's information, a convicted Russian citizen could easily purchase a right of establishment on the basis of a moral certificate issued by an island in the Caribbean. A new location is enough, and every criminal past is gone. In the past, the government has insufferably denied the accusations that criminals should be able to establish themselves. You think there's a quadruple filter, because besides the Immigration Office, the TEK, the Constitutional Protection Office and the police are checking the applicants. According to János Lázár, the Hungarian authority has not yet found anyone suspicious. This also means that the investigative journalist of the Hungarian nation works more efficiently alone than the Hungarian secret service, as well as the immigration and counter-terrorism authorities combined. So even if the government's anti-immigration campaign allows 16,000-dollar foreigners to settle down, among them, we can now say that they are criminals. Dear Secretary of State, The question is, if convicted criminals are so easily able to obtain a right of establishment, then how can we rule out that terrorists could not have done so. Would the Hungarian authorities be so amateur, or would the Hungarian government not allow them to work with sufficient efficiency? Are there plans to suspend the program and to review the bond buyers, or is greed going to override the national security of our country? I look forward to your meaningful answer on these issues. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-12-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State.
u2016-09-12-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I reject the false and unfounded statements made by the Member about the amateur action of the Hungarian authorities, so I strongly reject this. At the same time, I would suggest to the Member that he should not be informed about the newspapers or press rubber ducks, but that he should trust the work of the Hungarian state bodies and the parliamentary committees and their information. The National Security Committee held a closed meeting on 30 August 2016 to discuss the issues raised with regard to the settlement obligation, on which the representative of the Jobbik Group participated. I believe that the real threat to Hungary is not the settlement policy, but the 391 thousand illegal immigrants who crossed Hungary's borders uncontrolled, whose real personal data and ideological beliefs were not known. Unfortunately, the link between illegal migration and terrorism has been confirmed several times. In contrast, the procedure for issuing a national residence permit to determine whether the establishment of a third-country national endangers Hungary's public security or national security is being investigated by the Immigration and Nationality Office, the Constitutional Protection Office, the Counter-Terrorism Centre and the police. In the course of the procedure, the individual national security and public security assessment of each applicant for a residence permit shall be carried out in a complete manner. Without this procedure, a national residence permit shall not be issued. If there is a national security risk to the applicant for status, he shall not enter the territory of the country. I would like to draw the honourable Member's attention to the fact that I have previously given a detailed, exhaustive answer to Mrs Márta Demeter's similar question on how many rejections have been made in this regard. In addition to the above, the application shall be accompanied by a document certifying a non-criminal record which is not more than 6 months old. The applicant shall provide the details of his place of residence abroad prior to his arrival in Hungary and the details of his permanent or habitual residence prior to his arrival in Hungary on the form. Where the applicant's country of origin and his permanent or habitual residence prior to entry are different and a document issued by a country other than the one required by law is submitted, a request for replacement shall be issued. I would also like to inform you that the data presented by the Member is incorrect, not 16,000 people who have been granted a residence permit, half of which is not true. Those who claim 16,000, whether they are journalists or politicians, are simply not telling the truth, honourable Member. [[17.50]] However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, last year, 282,000 foreigners stayed on visas in Hungary. Visa applications are subject to EU standards, but they are not even as strict as the requirements imposed on applicants for residence permits. Finally, I would like to emphasise once again that terrorists have arrived among immigrants, not among those participating in the resettlement programme, on the basis of the experience of the last year. I ask the honourable Member, since I have answered all his questions, to accept my answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-09-12-122	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2016-09-12-123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We knew this was a huge business, a hundred billion-dollar business. Progress is made in whether criminals could have been granted residence rights or received. Mr. Secretary. You, I see, do not care if the information published by the Hungarian Nation is real. If that were the case, you would have said in your reply that you had contacted the paper, asked for the name of the man, precisely the name of the Russian citizen who was thus granted the right of establishment, and otherwise convicted in Russia. But since he didn't, I have to think that he's only doing one political rejection and not answering the question I asked him. We can't keep ruling him out, and that's why I can't accept his answer, that even if convicted criminals could have had this right of establishment, terrorists wouldn't have gotten it the same way. And as such, we consider it a national security risk until the entire program is re-examined. You didn't answer that either, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-09-12-124	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 106 votes in favour, 31 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedek, a representative of the LMP, has submitted an interview with the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, who is wrong or who is not telling the truth? Mr Sallai has the title.
u2016-09-12-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, I think the text of the interpellation has shown that there has been quite a conflicting communication activity in the government in relation to incomes related to land privatisation. In December 2015, Minister Sándor Fazekas said that this amount was clearly used to buy land. Shortly thereafter, Minister, if I recall correctly, you spoke about the need to buy land in one of the government's industrial parks. In August 2016, it was already said that the government might use it to reduce public debt. These are quite different usage ideas, and so we're a little afraid of eclectic thinking that someone always has an idea of where to put a few hundred million. At the same time, there is clearly the National Earth Fund Act 15. Article 3 (3) of the Act provides that the government has an obligation to operate land in accordance with the Land policies. As indicated by the Constitutional Court's investigation of the original government decision, this decision of the Constitutional Court of II/3093-26/2015 clearly stated that, unlike the original government decision, this was the only one in which it found constitutional grievance that it really had to be used in accordance with the NFA law. In addition, there is the point that, in practice, the NFA Act, under the conditions laid down in the sale, is only those 15. It has made it possible to sell in line with the objectives of property policy set out in paragraph 3 until today, obviously, we know now after the third round, that in virtually many cases the government has sold the land to Hungarian billionaires and Hungarian investors. I would like to find the most answers to these two questions, and I would like to thank the Minister for his help, because in part we do not see clearly where these hundreds of billions are going, and in part we do not know what will happen to clearly sold land which is completely different from the land policy objectives set by the legislation. The reason why, or in our opinion, it would be absolutely necessary to implement all this is because if, hypothetically, the country would once have a normal government and would wish to make efforts to restore its original state in relation to land sales that are clearly different from the spirit of the NFA Act, then it would certainly be necessary to have the basis that is still available at the moment. Dear Minister, I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much.
u2016-09-12-126	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The interpellation will be answered by János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2016-09-12-127	Thank you very much. Honourable Parliament! Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that in recent years there has been a social and professional consensus on the importance of Hungarian agriculture in the coming decades, and therefore the government, with the help of legislation, has tried to implement the new principles of ownership policy, agricultural policy and agricultural measures in which I believe we have agreed in terms of purpose. The Hungarian government is convinced that the power of Hungarian agriculture will be guaranteed by the Hungarian small and medium-sized ownership in the next period. This is what we have assigned our property policy measures to, and this is what we have ordered our support measures to do. Our aim is to make 80 percent of the Hungarian agricultural society small and medium-sized owners, 20 percent of the large estate. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Lőrinc Ripper!]] That was a reverse rate in 2010, I note. Now we're at about 50-50 percent. And we wanted to pursue the same objective of property policy with the law on land and the laws assigned to it. I understand that the Member can also support them in principle. In order to strengthen the Hungarian farming community, we have launched a programme for the farmers, in which the sale of 200 thousand hectares of public land has indeed been completed. This represents HUF 270 billion of state revenue in 2016. In the September session, the government decided to ask the Hungarian Parliament to negotiate a law, a report, an account of how the sale of the land, what happened to the auction of the programme for farmers above 3 hectares, and what happened to the land under 3 hectares. We will propose, on behalf of the government, that when the Parliament discusses this bill, it should take a position, and we will ask that it continue to provide support for the government, so that we can strengthen small and medium-sized ownership in the Hungarian agriculture. The text of the bill is a report, an account. The text of the bill is a summary of the current results of the programme for farmers, and that the sale of land above 3 hectares will be suspended. The sale of a number of public land is not in the government's interest and is not intended, except for areas below 3 hectares which are essentially for land policy settlement purposes. On the other hand, we also appeal to the Parliament to determine the purpose and possibility of using the HUF 270 billion received. We, on behalf of the government, recommend to the legislature that the HUF 270 billion received be used in a single item, in a completely transparent and transparent way, to reduce debt, since in 2010 Hungary had a consensus in this House that Hungary's most serious competitive disadvantage was the issue of public debt. A country in debt that has to spend 80% of GDP on public debt cannot mean that Hungary is an independent country. Therefore, we are constantly trying to reduce public debt; this would mean a reduction of about 1 percentage point. We propose that this be discussed by the National Assembly, including the report, to stop the sale of land over 3 hectares at auction, which also means amending the NFA Act, and to discuss what the HUF 270 billion received will be spent on. The bill will be presented to Parliament in September and we ask that my fellow Members take their positions in the Parliament. And I ask you, in the future, that our efforts to make Hungarian agriculture an important part of GDP should also be an economic sector capable of improving Hungary's strength and competitiveness, and we can also support it together by providing support for Hungarian small and medium-sized economies, in resources, tools and, of course, in the ground. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[18.00]]
u2016-09-12-128	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. I ask Congressman if he will accept the Minister's answer. You have the floor.
u2016-09-12-129	I do not accept the answer, and let me say this, Minister, because it is about the Minister telling us these land policy goals, but there is also a Ministry of Agriculture, which further strengthens the proportion of the large estate in Hungary by doing the opposite. I believe that Minister is fully aware of the situation that the composition of the most important ten people receiving agricultural subsidies in Hungary has not changed substantially since the change of government in 2010 and before last year. The same Hungarian billionaires receive the most support from the Hungarian agriculture than before 2010. At the moment, these stowaways and this large estate system, which has been cemented and reinforced by land privatization, are, in my opinion, unacceptable. The programme for the farmers has obviously become a programme for the rich, because I think Minister does not agree that even Csákvár Agricultural Zrt. His staff, like Lőrinc Mészáros, is the small-middle-owner's department that we are both talking about in the speech. Obviously, that's why I can't accept it. I look forward to the bill with great interest, and I am pleased that we can exchange ideas about it here. Thank you very much.
u2016-09-12-130	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Minister's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial response by 105 votes in favour, 33 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, István Tukacs, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Interior:.. Is the Government helping the inhabitants of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County on June 21, 2016? It's an address. Mr István Tukacs has the floor.
u2016-09-12-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As is known, on June 21, 13 cities in Szatmár were devastated by terrible hail. Ice chips the size of my fist destroyed the roofs, the crops, and the damage to the pets. After the disaster, the processes were hopeful. The government offices were on their way to assess the damage immediately. These records are piling up on the tables of the mayor's offices. Dear Secretary of State, However, in addition to the government's intention to spend force majeure on municipal buildings, an EMMI budget on a piece of school and ecclesiastical property that I don't know about, no progress has been made in what happens to those poor people who can't fix their house on their own. Secretary of State, we're in terrible shape. People live under inhuman conditions, rooftops covered with foil, and they have no hope. When Minister Pintér pronounces the word self-care without blushing, he does not know that it is not in this region. 20,000 HUF per person income cannot be self-worshiped, can not be restored. And now it's September 12th. Autumn is coming, winter is coming. These people still have hope that someone will help them. Dear Secretary of State, Don't do two things, don't tell me how much force majeure the government has spent on municipal property, because that's your job. Don't tell me that you can't create a legal environment for help, because you can. As could be done during the great flood in Szatmár-Bereg, houses had to be restored and houses restored. And please don't tell me there's no money for this. If necessary, I would be very happy to name the resources from which people can hope that they may live in a country in which solidarity exists, there is concern, there is the kind of country in which he has, if not, but has hope. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, believe me, in this interpellation, my aim is far from to get you three unpleasant moments. If that was my goal, I'd do it differently. I have one goal: to find out whether there is an intention to find out if there will still be some kind of help, hope, planning, and if so, in houses still covered with foil, in terrible conditions, and what people who live in this area can hope for. Thank you very much for the answer.
u2016-09-12-132	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-09-12-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The Member is also likely to be well aware of it, since there have been small changes in the support of municipalities for a relatively long time, and in the event of damage to local governments, the force majeure support system. That's how it worked during your administration. The same system is working right now. In the spring of this year, at the beginning of the summer, there were indeed natural phenomena in many areas of the country, resulting in damage to local estates, private estates, municipal, state-owned roads, drainage ditches, and the improvement and renewal of these can be assisted by the force majeure framework, the force majeure system, according to the relevant legislation. In June of this year, the Szabolcs region was also affected by a hailstorm by a number of public, municipal or private property damage, and after the hail disaster prevention, disaster response units started the immediate damage relief and short-term damage prevention. In six municipalities, disaster management officers managed the work, and some 600 people participated in direct damage control and protection of buildings and damaged property against rain. Under the Government Decree on Force majeure, in the region concerned, the municipalities received a grant advance of HUF 34 million and HUF 215 thousand. Following the processing of applications and applications received, it is up to the extent to which these municipalities will receive a framework for the restoration of buildings. Here, 10 percent should provide an own contribution, this 10 percent will be guaranteed by the Ministry of Interior from another source, so in the case of municipal property, we will provide 100% compensation for municipal property damage. The question raised by the Member lies in the heartlessness of the government. It is interesting that this feeling did not arise in the Member when, in 2006, people died or suffered serious injuries at the August 20 ceremony organised by the State, and these people were never compensated by your government. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP. István Tukacs: What's that got to do with it?]] These people had to be compensated by our government, and we provided compensation. It comes to this, Congressman, that you or your government have not provided any compensation to people who have been injured, who have lost their lives, while now carrying out any kind of accountability. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-12-134	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Congressman, you have the floor, do you accept the Secretary of State's answer? Here you go.
u2016-09-12-135	Secretary of State, I hope you're terribly ashamed. Secretary of State, I've told you what I'm asking about the interpellation. Not the force majeure of municipal buildings, nothing but the foiling work of disaster protectors, just days after the tragedy. I asked the poor bastard who didn't have insurance, who doesn't have a backup, who doesn't have a job, and who doesn't have any hope, what he's gonna do. Secretary of State, 26 billion almost lost the nature of public money. A fraction of it could solve this problem. With all due respect, I'm asking you to have a heart. It's not a political firecracker, it's a serious problem. Secretary of State, do something! I really need it, I really need it. I don't accept the answer. Thank you very much.
u2016-09-12-136	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 100 votes in favour, 32 against and 1 abstention. [[18.10]] Dear Parliament, Tibor Bana, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade... [[There's a lot of noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] - I ask my fellow Members to continue our work. What is the government's position on the EU-US Free Trade Agreement? It's an address. Congressman Tibor Bana has the floor.
u2016-09-12-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The negotiations on the TTIP, a transatlantic trade and investment partnership, remain unclear. There are more and more people in Hungary who oppose the continuation of negotiations and the conclusion of the treaty, but the Hungarian Government continues to be indebted to the open resolution, to make a double speech, and some of its members draw up conflicting positions. The murmuring and rejection of TTIP is now not only owned by the Eastern Central European Member States, but also by the Western Member States and overseas critical voices are increasing. So much so that there are people in the German government who are talking about the failure of negotiations. Last time at the end of August, German Minister for Economics Sigmar Gabriel said that the negotiations were de facto unsuccessful, because we Europeans do not want to submit to American demands. Of course, the EU chief negotiator or Angela Merkel tried to disprove this immediately, but there are still more cracks on the wall. In addition, the Hungarian government's position remains unclear. The answer to our previous questions has always been the need to continue the negotiations, and then, since there will be a mixed agreement, that is to say, the Member States will also have to ratify it, then we have time to contradict it. However, this is an extremely dangerous attitude. Let's see why. It is not certain at all that the TTIP will be a mixed agreement, because on CETA, the EU-Canada Free Trade Agreement, just now, before its signature, the European Commission decided to treat it as a mixed agreement, but this does not mean that the same decision will be taken in the case of the much more controversial TTIP. His position on CETA is reportedly decided by the government this month, and we have no doubt about what decision will be made on the basis of statements made in recent months. However, if CETA is to be seen as the forerunner of TTIP, we should not make a hasty decision. Last but not least, we still have the issue of GMOs, which, to date, has not been satisfied, and even more disturbing news is coming. One of these is the termination of NÉBIH and the delegation of its tasks to government offices, creating a less efficient and powerful system. Meanwhile, Minister Fazekas negotiated in the United States and brought seed samples to the country for home study. Another addition is that according to the Washington Hungarian Ambassador, research on GMOs is needed, which takes time, but it is a significant opportunity both politically and commercially. It can be seen, therefore, that the government has much to clarify, especially in the following areas. What position does the government currently take in TTIP, seeing as more and more Western politicians raise their voice against it? Can we expect the Hungarian Parliament to reject CETA? There is a need for a much stronger rejection on the issue of GMOs, and the opposite of that, there is a reduction. What are the government's plans in this area? Mr State Secretary, I look forward to your substantive reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-12-138	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary László Szabó responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-09-12-139	Honourable Congressman, First of all, I'd like to thank you for the excellent press coverage you've done on the TTIP case in the last few minutes. I can assure you that the Hungarian government's position on TTIP has not changed, and we will continue to focus on the best interests of the Hungarian people. We would like to achieve a comprehensive, balanced and ambitious solution, an agreement that fully reflects Hungarian interests. All I'm saying about the current position of the TTIP negotiations is that you have very precise statements about who loves it, who doesn't love it, who doesn't agree with it, who doesn't agree with it: there's nothing to agree with yet, because none of the nearly 30 chapters are closed during the negotiations. So the contents are virtually unknown to this day. The certainty is that we know exactly what the interests of the Hungarian people are. In line with Parliament's decision of 13 June 2016, which concerns the requirements for trade and investment agreements concluded by the European Union with third countries, we represent government decision-making and preparation activities in all the institutions of the European Union accordingly. Both CETA and TTIP are of the opinion that a mixed agreement should be considered and that the agreement should be ratified in each Member State in accordance with our own internal legal order. As far as CETA is concerned, none of its provisions violate Hungary's agriculture free of genetically modified organisms as laid down in the Fundamental Law. I note in brackets that Hungary is the only fundamental law in Europe where the GMO exemption is explicitly mentioned, and CETA does not oblige either Hungary or the Union to amend or liberalise the regulatory and authorisation procedures relating to GMOs. Your question is how the Hungarian Parliament will decide, and we will leave that to the Hungarian Parliament. And the need for a much stronger negative attitude to GMO-free: I do not think that any country has set an example of a more decisive resolution than the GMO-free approach laid down in the Hungarian Fundamental Law. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-09-12-140	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2016-09-12-141	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I can't accept your answer. It can be seen that the government is not handling the negotiations on the EU-US Free Trade Agreement in accordance with its weight. The outcome of this can be extremely dangerous for our country, whether in terms of our national self-determination, our food security or the situation of Hungarian workers. And the argument you're saying is that we're gonna have to sit in negotiations, and then we're gonna see what the outcome of this is, and then we're gonna decide, in a lot of cases, we've heard it, either from the former socialist-free democrat governments or from you. Then, in the end, there were no points left in certain conventions that could not be agreed on, because they violated our national interests, yet they supported them. The Hungarian people would expect a much more decisive, much clearer opinion from you, especially in the light of the fact that it is not certain at all, as I suggested, that there will be a mixed agreement, so that Parliament will also have to decide on this. Unfortunately, the MEPs of Fidesz voted in favour of this issue together with representatives of MSZP and DK, and several of their leading politicians spoke in this direction. Therefore, the Secretary of State has not been able to resolve my doubts; it is no accident that the protests will be strengthened. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[18.20]]
u2016-09-12-142	Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 105 votes in favour, 33 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the interpellations, we will continue our work by discussing immediate questions. Those of our fellow Members who leave the room for an urgent public mission, please do so quietly; until then, I will call for a minute of technical break. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. Dear Parliament, Tamás Harangozó, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: why do you not act against the hundreds of billion-dollar benefits of settlement bonds by private companies and fidesz buddies? In addition, in a few years' time, Hungarian taxpayers will have to pay back with interest with the title of this huge amount. Prime Minister János Lázár appointed a minister leading the Prime Minister's Office in response to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2016-09-12-143	Mr President, since the Prime Minister has shown himself here for many years as a Grail Knight to fight offshore...
u2016-09-12-144	Congressman, please answer yes and no.
u2016-09-12-145	...I'd like him to be able to answer that in person, so I'm gonna wait for him to come in. Thank you.
u2016-09-12-146	Thank you. The Prime Minister must reply at the next meeting in the third row. Dear Parliament, Nándor Gúr, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: why do you tolerate fearsome practices in people that have already allowed the establishment of 16,000 foreigners, among whom there are convicted Russian criminals, and therefore Fidesz sells Hungary's security for money? " with the title " The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a result of an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding or ask the Prime Minister for the answer in person. I'm waiting for an answer, Congressman.
u2016-09-12-147	Mr President, Fidesz also sells Hungary's security for money...
u2016-09-12-148	Congressman, I expect your answer: yes or no?
u2016-09-12-149	I think this question is so important that...
u2016-09-12-150	Does he answer yes or no?
u2016-09-12-151	... although I would welcome the reply of my fellow Member Lazarus, I will wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
u2016-09-12-152	The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Tamás Harangozó, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: - How much does the Government spend on the campaign of the referendum on 2 October? It's an address. The Prime Minister asked Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to reply in response to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he asks the Prime Minister for the answer in person.
u2016-09-12-153	Mr President, I didn't read in the house rules that you have to answer the question yes or no...
u2016-09-12-154	Congressman, yes...
u2016-09-12-155	...but I think we can discuss this at the board meeting. By the way, my short answer now is yes. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-09-12-156	Congressman, you have the floor. [[Interjections and clarity.]] Congressman, you have the floor.
u2016-09-12-157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, I do not understand why the Prime Minister has appointed you to answer this question, as it is clear from the question that all data is officially and legally held by Minister Antal Rogán. But I will try, and I will try to ask you a simple question, free of any political chatter, and I would expect this kind of answer from you with great respect: how much of the Hungarian government spends on public money during the campaign period from 14 August to 2 October on referendum campaigns, the Prime Minister's letter, posters, flyers in 4.1 million households, on public ads called in elephant ears, on television, radio and printed press, on other advertisements, advertisements? I'd like you to mark an exact amount if you can. Thank you very much.
u2016-09-12-158	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. You have the floor, Minister.
u2016-09-12-159	Thank you very much. I am responding, my honourable fellow Member, because, under the house rules and the relevant provisions, the Prime Minister may be replaced by a minister - [[To intervene:]] Instead of Prime Minister, Minister, I have the honour to answer your question. I'd be happy to do that. First of all, I would like to begin by saying that I believe that, who initiates a referendum in Hungary, that all obstacles to the legality, credibility and authentication of the referendum will be removed, in Hungarian, that it will fulfil the necessary conditions, that it will collect the appropriate signatures, if the government is not the initiating one, and that Parliament will issue a referendum, then it is the duty of a dog to inform voters about the subject matter and initiative of the referendum, regardless of whether it is the government as an initiative or any other organisation. I think that in a democratic rule of law, the institution of a referendum is the most sacred thing. We, who are given the mandate every four years - or have been given at least so far - to handle the affairs of the country, are given this right, according to the voter's decision, to give us the option to decide the matters for four years. It is an exceptional opportunity for voters to be given back to deal with matters in the spirit of direct democracy. This is very rare in Hungary, also in Western Europe. I therefore consider it important, and I consider it a matter of priority, and it is right that the Hungarian Government will do everything in its power to ask the Hungarian voters to go and give their views. After all, the proponent of the referendum and every democratic-minded politician has two obligations in this case. The first and most important duty is to invite you to attend. The second important duty is to tell you what you think about this, and if you are asked by voters, you can give advice on how to vote. Then the voters will decide whether to use it or not, whether to keep it or not. We'll be campaigning until October 2nd. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: How much does it cost?]] All the costs of the campaign - as you have, as I have seen, submitted a request for data these days - will, of course, be made public in accordance with the Data Request Act and in accordance with the end of the campaign, and will be answered to all your questions. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-12-160	Thank you very much, Minister. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2016-09-12-161	That's what they say, Minister, that's college-level bullshit. You had two minutes to give me a number. Yeah, well, you know, it's the law of duty, and it's also in house rules and other laws. Second, Minister, not everyone in this country can write a referendum. Some have to cheat themselves at the door of a public institution with bald thugs, and after that there is no consequence in this country. [[Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Tell me why Minister Rogán is keeping secrets. And yes, he was supposed to be here because he knows the numbers. I was inside, Minister, and I took the trouble, and I went to the Ministry, and I asked for the exact data to be copied. I was there this morning, and your colleagues lied to my face. They denied what we were left in. Only one piece of paper wasn't published. What are you hiding, Minister? They write 3.9 billion forints in their response, while 3.1 billion came out of the papers I looked at. Where's the rest of 900 million? [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Stolen!]] Who, what are they spending it on? Where's the money, Minister? Hungarian voters must also know that! Thank you very much.
u2016-09-12-162	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-09-12-163	Firstly, I am pleased that, contrary to your political position, the referendum is considered important and I encourage you and all decent MSZPs; that is all there is in my living environment, and without exception, all of you, I think, are in favour of taking part in elections and referendums. [[Zoltán Pride: Because you're getting them fired, that's why!]] I say this because a democratic politician can never dissuade voters from taking part in public affairs, because the party that does this cannot be democratic. We're talking about concepts that are not mutually exclusive. [[Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] [[18.30]] On the other hand, if you will allow me, Mr President, I would like you to count on this, not too long ago you launched a referendum on which the Election Committee approved, which was a referendum for the cessation of land auctions. They couldn't collect the necessary signatures. Don't make us do this. So, then, when it is good for your interests, it is a good referendum, when your interests are not good, it is not good. I assure my fellow bellsman, he will receive precise numbers, but his question was how much the government will spend by 2 October. I can't give you an exact number on September 12th. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Why, aren't your billboards ordered?]] After October 3rd, you'll get all the numbers. Calm down. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-12-164	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, János Volner, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: Why doesn't the government do anything to increase the wages of Hungarian workers? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the responding person or asks the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2016-09-12-165	I'll wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-09-12-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:. Who will protect the families that are about to be evicted? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he asks the Minister himself for an answer. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: I accept.]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-09-12-167	Mr President, Dear House, The fact that more than 1,500 evictions have been made since March has become a reality under the aegis of the government that calls itself family-friendly. Even the data of the Hungarian Faculty of Executives of the Court of Justice openly support this. Compared to previous years, we therefore encounter a very high figure, literally hundreds and thousands of Hungarian families. In the meantime, we can see that the package proposed for the government's solution has, to say the least, gone bankrupt, that the private institution couldn't even help 500 people. And the National Asset Manager, whose budget is almost full, would be difficult to call a solution, since they are taking property from the stakeholders here. You can rent back your own former apartment, your house from the state, but it is in question when, due to the unpredictable behaviour of the current government, you will also lose this lease. At the same time, it can be seen that the proportion of debtors unable to repay is at least as high as before the government's alleged settlement. More than 140,000 people are in trouble, 70,000 of them, corresponding to the population of a town the size of Győr, are in so much trouble that they have actually become unrepayable due to the government's bank rescue package, because they didn't save the citizens, not the injured, but the difference between the admission rate and the settlement rate was credited to the banks. The question is therefore raised, while Fidesz flees to the refugee crisis from facing the social problems it causes, whether they are willing to finally declare a moratorium on eviction, especially for those who have suffered foreign exchange credit and for those who have been robbed of the bank concerned, until this social disaster is finally eliminated as promised, as they have not avoided what continues to threaten the lives of tens of thousands of Hungarians. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-12-168	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-09-12-169	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to correct that Győr has a population of 128 thousand and not 70 thousand, as he said on the immediate question, but that is not the essential issue. The main issue is that there has been a serious foreign currency credit crisis in Hungary until the Fidesz government has been able to resolve this. The situation is much more serious than the fact that we are talking about a thousand evictions, which is no small number, and, of course, this is a very, very bad thing for these people in their lives. Let's get out of this, though, that over two million people had currency loans, and if the government, the Fidesz government, hadn't saved them, we wouldn't be talking about thousands of evictions now, but probably tens of thousands. This required very serious decisions and steps, the possibility of paying off 170 thousand people, the possibility of a price barrier to 186 thousand people, this saved 350 thousand families at the time. Overall, the banks paid back HUF 734 billion thanks to the Fidesz government to these people, for whom the banks unfairly raised their loan interest. By the end of 2017, your underestimated Asset Manager will save 35,000 families from eviction, which means about 160,000 people. 35,000 families, I emphasize. But the solutions of the home creation program are not over, as the National Assembly is the CV at the end of 2015. by law, the law on the debt settlement procedure, which means that if someone enters this system, they cannot be evicted. So this is also a significant help to the Hungarian families who have come here. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-12-170	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2016-09-12-171	Mr President, Dear House, I have to correct you: there are more people in trouble than the population of Győr, and, yes, most of them are already unrepayable. Listen to me more carefully. Yet the real problem is that next year this government will release another wave of eviction to Hungary, which is unprecedented. There are 15,000 apartments waiting for auction in today's Hungary. Of these, 3,500 have already been tried to auction, but they have not yet been sold. So you've unleashed a social disaster. So much for their home creation programme, because a public housing program proposed by Jobbik could help the situation, help even those in distress, but the Fidesz faction's position was the following on a housing program: according to Fidesz, the idea of mass building social housing is dangerous and not timely in the midst of the extraordinary scale of population migration affecting us. Now, that's you, that's your reality. Hiding behind the migration crisis, they pretend they can't see the social disaster, let alone leave people on the edge of the ditch, but kick them to the bottom of the ditch. What you're doing is an amazing charade. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-12-172	Thank you, Congressman. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-09-12-173	Dear Parliament, The question between us is whether you think it is necessary to have a legal institution that if someone commits to himself, takes out a loan and pays off, it is necessary to have a legal institution that threatens to lose its property if it does not repay. Is this legal institution necessary in Hungary or not? That's what needs to be clarified first. Because it's easy to say from opposition that, come on, you don't have to pay, and then the state or someone will come to save them. I think that a responsible state, a responsible government, should say that it is necessary. However, steps are also needed to prevent eviction in as many cases as possible. How can this be prevented? For example, if there is as little unemployment in Hungary as possible. Since 2010, 600,000 more people have been working in Hungary. By otherwise increasing their real wages and paying off these obligations. Or by creating a social network. I mentioned two of these: the Asset Manager and the debt settlement procedure. I believe that the Fidesz government has nothing to be ashamed of in this regard. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-12-174	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2016-09-12-175	I accept the identity of the responder.
u2016-09-12-176	Thank you very much. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-09-12-177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, From January, a kind of protest by teachers, parents and students started, very firm and bravely stood up, protesting against the processes that take place in the country's education policy. Then the government took a few steps, some promises. I would like to highlight three of these and ask why these have not been fulfilled. They promised to cut the curriculum first. However, this turned out to be a simple scam, it exists on paper, practically a wooden iron ring. It has been described that the subject can be taught in less hours than the number of hours prescribed so far in the given year, and it has been proposed to do so, which were to be waited until September, virtually until the last day of August. The paper can handle everything, but the curriculum has not actually been reduced, as the curricula and requirements have not been rewritten. The second is the debauchery of vocational education. They promised that the new complex science subject, which is created instead of biology, chemistry, physics, geography, is a XXI. It will be filled with innovative methods and knowledge of the century. If we take a closer look at this, they practically scissored the knowledge of former subjects of physics, chemistry, biology, and geography, and made one of the four with last-minute master plans. They also promised to raise the wages of teachers, the automatic move forward and the additional benefits of all teachers who were going to retire - it turned out that this was not true either. Over a thousand teachers were excluded from this move, claiming that the portfolio had not been uploaded, even though many others did not upload it, and yet they still have to pay more. Dear Minister, It's not even two weeks from the school year, and the truth has come to light at a number of points, precisely because of these scams, the protests seem to continue. The teachers found out they were being deceived. I wonder what else they're gonna be fooled with.
u2016-09-12-178	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2016-09-12-179	My fellow Member! He's asking serious questions that can't be discussed in a two-minute parliamentary give-and-take or question-and-answer genre. I think that the Education Committee and the plenary session are suitable for discussing such issues, and I know that they have done so on several occasions. There will always be instrumental disputes, because there will be difficulties and challenges with state sustainability, as with all the responsibilities of its retainers. The question is whether we agree on the goal. Mr. Congressman, I am concerned about one thing in the matter of education, and what I am asking on the wallet is not what you are asking for, but the lack of action in relation to this one problem: since 2004, the results of the competence measurement of Hungarian students in Hungary have been steadily deteriorating in international comparison. [[18.40]] Six years after the change of government in 2010, we are now at a point where perhaps the maintenance organisation has been clarified and the state has started to maintain the institutions. Of course, for a conscientious Member of Parliament, it is important to have the fate of teachers, to have different instruments, to have different wage raising issues, but the most important thing for all of us should be what our children know, and in this change, there has not been any substantial progress in my view. It is a very important question of what we teach. I see courage for everyone to write in the textbooks and the course and what to teach, but to be a man in Hungary who dares to say what does not need to be taught, and what is the knowledge to be taught in XXI. I've never really met a man like that before. So my answer to your first question is that the problem of compression of the curriculum is a very complex professional issue. It would be a huge responsibility to say that after 35-40 years - for so long, mathematics has been taught equally in Hungary, but it may have been 50 years in primary school and high school - how to teach differently in order to make it look like this, for example, in competence results. Or how to change language teaching? That's what I really miss about education. Of course, I'll try to answer your questions briefly in a minute. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-09-12-180	Thank you very much for the Minister's reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2016-09-12-181	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, He raised questions, but now I'm not the responder, but I'm the one asking the questions. I think that this process - and obviously not your area of expertise - is particularly important - and I would therefore point out much wider, much bigger problems: these are not the three problems that I will bring in for you to answer why we are here. What I see is that you've been scolding the former governments a lot, and you've also been told that what you're doing is debauchery. What we need to see - I definitely see it this way - is that the process that is happening at the moment in Hungarian public education seems to raise the prestige of the institutions, rename vocational secondary schools, and the like, but the content is empty behind them. In addition to a large amount of hours, there is a great deal of pressure on students, however, the skills are getting lower, and we say that unfortunately this is folk debauchery, that should be changed. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And like you said, yes.
u2016-09-12-182	Thank you, Congressman. You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2016-09-12-183	I understand opposition criticism, and this, I believe, will be a debate that will determine the relationship between all governments and all opposition legislation for decades. Let me make one thing clear about the system of vocational schools. In a country where there is no economic operator who does not say that Hungarian vocational training is not able to serve the economy with employees, working preparedness, degrees and knowledge, I have never met such an employer. All employers agreed on this. So the need to do something was not a question of changing the vocational training system. That's why he got out of the public education system and came to the Ministry of Economy so that we could link needs, i.e. economic needs, with the training structure, which is obviously not good. How is it that, while there is unemployment, there are hundreds of thousands of jobs? We live in conflicting data, while some people are unable to find employment, but there is also a huge demand for labour. Which means that 1321 teachers will be left behind, and the government couldn't ignore the need for this portfolio upload, and they didn't. That's what this number came up with. That's my third answer to the question. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-09-12-184	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mihály Witzmann and Lajos Szűcs, representatives of Fidesz, want to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:. Why is the institution of the referendum important in a democratic rule of law? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Pál Völner as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding or asks the Minister for his answer in person. [[On Dr. Lajos Szűcs' mark:]] Yeah. Congressman Lajos Szűcs has the floor.
u2016-09-12-185	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Today is not the first time we have talked about this issue. We all know that on 2 October there will be a referendum on a very important issue in Hungary. We will decide whether Hungarian citizens want to live with people, even against their will, with whom they do not want to. I believe that every community has a fundamental right to decide that. It is outrageous to me that left-wing parties claiming to be democratic do not dare to take a stand on such an obvious, clear issue, rather than encourage them to stay away from the elections, and even think that it is not a problem if someone leaves, but at least vote invalid. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, these parties have proven themselves to be engaged in party political battles, while Hungary's future is at stake. For example, DK launched a referendum campaign, which would be a great opportunity for them to say 'yes' or 'no'. They don't care about the unanimous opinion of the Hungarian people, the protection of European values, the increased risk of terrorism, but rather about the institution of the referendum, just to achieve an internal political issue, an attack by the government, and to gain a good point in Brussels. I believe that this referendum is not about parties and not about internal political struggles. The stakes are what kind of Europe we want to live in and what Europe we want to leave to our children and grandchildren. I believe that responsible politicians have no other purpose but to protect the community, national culture and all that makes Hungary Hungarian. I would therefore like to ask all our right- and left-wing compatriots to take part in the referendum and not to listen to the opinion of misleading left-wing politicians. In view of these, I would like you to tell some of our fellow Members why the institution of a referendum is important in a democratic rule of law. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-09-12-186	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner.
u2016-09-12-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, the main problem with the referendum is that the various parties do not recognise the democratic nature of the referendum and its importance, as this institution has already appeared in the ancient Greek states, and it is still the main form of the exercise of popular sovereignty in addition to the institutional system of representative democracy, which is practically applied in Hungary on issues of major importance, such as, for example, when it came to NATO accession, or in 2003, when it came to accession to the European Union. At that time, the institution of the referendum was not called into question by opposition parties or even called for participation in them. The referendum is therefore the general and strongest form of direct exercise of power, which gives the people the opportunity to make a direct decision on a matter, thus fulfilling a serious legitimacy function. I think those who do not make use of this function will also lose this legitimacy, which will be proved on October 2nd, because the decision can be made directly by the people. This is also stated in the Fundamental Law itself, and the Constitutional Court's decision also provides that, when such a decision is taken, representative democracy, although it can be considered as a priority, but direct power is an exceptional form of popular sovereignty that is above the exercise of representative power, as indicated by the Constitutional Court's decision of 52/1997. The importance of the institution of the referendum is also shown by the fact that the referendum creates a legislative obligation for the Parliament. Therefore, within 180 days, if the referendum is valid and effective, a corresponding law must be adopted, and this law cannot be derogated from or amended for three years from its publication. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-09-12-188	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Szűcs in return.
u2016-09-12-189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, This is also a way of proving that one of the most important tools of direct exercise of power is the institution of the referendum. And to set a recent example here in England, when citizens voted on leaving, then there was more debate about whether Parliament had the opportunity to change the outcome of the referendum. Many people thought that Parliament could make a decision in the opposite direction, but the new Prime Minister said that this issue could no longer be brought before Parliament, since the issue was clearly authorised. This may also be an answer to my fellow opposition Members' conclusions and the binding force of the referendum on 2 October that we hope to conclude effectively. The fact that people's opinions cannot be avoided and that Brussels must accept it. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[18.50]]
u2016-09-12-190	Thank you very much, Congressman. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2016-09-12-191	Congressman mentioned the bureaucrats in Brussels. Indeed, they have already made the decision that a representative or head of government or head of state involved in a representative procedure would have obviously taken in order to take into account the will of the electorate, which is contrary to the current Hungarian processes, and hopefully this referendum expresses this decision. The Hungarian government's firm position is that sovereignty is affected by the resettlement quota, the exercise of which Hungary has not given up, which it has not transferred to the European Union. In our view, a country, a state, has three characteristics: territory, population, sovereignty. The area is given; the decision on the population is a very important thing that we have not allowed to pass, which should fall within national competence. Changing this will have very serious consequences for the future, and this referendum will show that we do not want to let this out of our hands. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-12-192	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László Földi, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question:. What goals and directions do you intend to set in Hungary's food economic programme? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. István Nagy State Secretary to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer. [[On the mark of László Földi:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-09-12-193	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, As the Government of Hungary has determined, the most important goal in Hungary is to develop a sustainable, healthy and quality food-producing agriculture, both economically and environmentally. This requires a long-term national food economic programme, the draft of which was released to the social debate the other day by the agricultural portfolio. I think that we all agree, as Minister Fazekas has said, that we should appreciate the resources that we inherited from our ancestors, and which are still available today, the treasured land of our homeland, our fish stocks-rich waters, our forests that give habitat to our wild animals, with which we have to farm in a sustainable way, while bearing in mind that the greatest value of Hungarian food is in their natural nature. I am sure that the Hungarian food economy can meet the needs of the world and Europe at a high level of consumer demand. Almost all sectors have the potential for growth and production. We know that in order to take advantage of market opportunities, we need organised and functioning product paths, host associations and alliances, and in order to achieve quality production, we need to preserve our GMO exemption as a value, protect our agricultural land and our waters. Dear Secretary of State, In order to preserve the competitiveness of Hungarian agriculture and to develop sustainable agriculture in the long term, what objectives and directions of intervention do the national food economic programme intend to set? I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-12-194	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy.
u2016-09-12-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I agree with every word of my fellow Member. In order to give you the right answer, let me give you a few numbers at the beginning of my answer: by 2050, there will be 9 billion people on this Earth, and by 2035 the population's protein demand, i.e. the meat demand, will increase by 40 percent compared to now. And the truth is that when we look around at the potential of Hungarian agriculture, we see that about 60 percent is still available in Hungarian agriculture, with which we can produce more and better. This potential stimulates us to be responsible for creating the break-out points that we can provide the right answer to the challenges of these years. Because the first thing we need to say is our desire for quality food. That's why we have to do everything we can. Hungarian agriculture has had a fundamental structure so far, that it has produced raw materials. What we are significantly behind and must be put first in the 2050 strategy is the issue of the production of quality food, i.e. increasing the level of processing. We cannot allow them to take these raw materials away from us, and we will buy them back dearly. As we dictated and were flag bearers in the fight against GMOs, we must remain firmly convinced that we will not be willing to accept any compromises with regard to quality food. We have set out strategies to use the most modern technology, based on traditional agriculture, to make use of our natural potential to put the highest quality of food on the table in the right quality and quantity. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-12-196	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2016-09-12-197	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and thank you for your reply. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to highlight two areas in my rejoinder, one of which is the issue of GMO-freeness. I believe that, since Hungary has been the leading fighter in Europe over the last few years, and if we can preserve this, Hungarian quality food will be absolutely competitive not only in Hungary but also in all countries of Europe. And the other area is to feed our children, to feed them. In order for our children to receive high-quality food and to eat good food at school, kindergarten, daycare center, we really need quality agricultural goods. I hope that this food safety programme will lead to serious progress in both areas in Hungary. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-12-198	Thank you very much, Congressman. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2016-09-12-199	Mr President, My dear fellow Member, That is exactly right, we are on the right track to achieve our GMO exemption, and we have already achieved that seed which is genetically modified cannot be introduced into the soil. We are beyond the research phase where we have determined that we cannot feed feed of animal origin from genetically modified soy. These research results are completed, with positive results, so there is a good chance that next month we have a regulation opening up the use of the GMO-free trademark, and we can already come out with different dairy products, milk, meat, eggs, fish and honey that will have the genetic modification-free trademark on it. This is the first step in guaranteeing that. From now on, the EU's open proposals, the GINOP proposals, provide the resources that can set up appropriate cold stores, processing plants, new food technologies and plants in Hungary, and they will all be able to ensure that the potential of agricultural production is much better exploited, i.e. the future of our children, so that they can receive and consume food that is of quality and adequate for their health. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-12-200	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László Szakács, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question: It's an address. The President appointed Vice-President Márton Nagy as a response to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding or ask Mr President for his answer in person.
u2016-09-12-201	With all due respect, I'd like to wait for Mr. President. Thank you very much.
u2016-09-12-202	Thank you, Congressman. Mr President will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Ágnes Kunhalmi, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Attorney General an immediate question:. Election frauds in Terézváros and Budapest? It's an address. The Attorney General has appointed Mr. Ervin Belovics Deputy Attorney General in response to an urgent public mission. I ask you, Congresswoman, do you accept the person to whom you are responding, or ask for the answer personally from the Attorney General.
u2016-09-12-203	Mr President, I'd like to ask Mr. Peter Polt personally. Thank you.
u2016-09-12-204	Thank you. The Attorney General must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, László Kiss and Ágnes Kunhalmi, representatives of the MSZP, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: where and how are Christians persecuted in Hungary? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to answer the question because of his urgent public mission. [[19.00]] I ask the congresswoman whether she accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister for the answer personally.
u2016-09-12-205	Mr. President. I accept and thank you.
u2016-09-12-206	You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-09-12-207	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, The Deputy Secretary of State for the Ministry of Human Capacities stands up with a budget of EUR 3 million, or nearly HUF 1 billion, in the Ministry of Human Capacities, while Zsolt Bayer, a newly decorated Fidesz government man, said: "The Pope is a demented old man; in the meantime, I love the style of Zsolt Bayer," said István Hollik in his program ATV Straight Speech, the Christian Democrat Member of Parliament stated that he respects the journalist's work. In addition: On Viktor Orbán's Facebook page, after a week, no comments were moderated that insulted Pope Ferenc during the post on the meeting of the Prime Minister and the Catholic head of church last week. Among other things, these can be read:. Ferenc is the closest to the false pope, to his adjus, and to Satan,... Bankári Soros-bérence,. Viktor! Kick the old idiot in the balls. 'The two comments,' said the Prime Minister, and so far they have not been moderated on the Prime Minister's side. Dear Secretary of State, I'd like to ask you if you agree with these findings. Please describe in detail the tasks and responsibilities of the State Secretariat. Thank you.
u2016-09-12-208	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-09-12-209	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, The Hungarian Socialist Party is apparently unable to deal with this situation, but allow me to give you a serious answer to your question. On the one hand, the Holy Father obviously has to show respect to everyone, just as the Prime Minister did when he was obviously at his house. I think this meeting was important, as it was important to meet the patriarchs from the Middle East, the maronite patriarch, the Catholic patriarch and the Orthodox patriarch. I say to the representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party that they are very important church leaders in the Middle East, and they represent the last excuse and excuse of the people there in changing times. They are the ones who have not left their own homeland, since they have lived there for two thousand years as Christians, but are trying to help the people there on the spot. They are not asking for help to take people from there, but, above all, to get along in their own homeland. This request was heard by the Government of Hungary, and we thought that, in addition to doing everything in international humanitarian aid, Hungary did [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: When will you hear the Hungarian people?]] What Hungary must do in proportion to its total national product, whether it is about erbili school building, whether it is about humanitarian actions, support for an ecumenical aid organisation that have come together in the framework of the UN, in an international framework, and in addition to this, it will make an additional commitment: it will try to help Christians, on the one hand, by raising awareness, and on the other hand by organising humanitarian actions, who have been living there in the Middle East for centuries and who have suffered huge losses. If you look at Iraq alone, in 1947 4.5 million Christians lived there, 20 years ago 1.5 - 1.6 million Christians lived there, and now 250 thousand. The others were driven away, killed, or forced to convert. [[Dr. László Kács: How does that come about?]] We believe that the rights of these people are at least as important as those of those that the United Nations - the lesser risk of various smaller groups - is very much concerned with. We are talking about people in real danger, who we know very little about here in Hungary and in the developed Western world, because here we find it unthinkable that Christianity is being persecuted. We live every week to see you grind your language from the benches of the opposition MSZP here, but what happens in the Middle East is nothing like what happens here in Europe, Western Europe, North America. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] That's why it's important. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and Ágnes Kunhalmi intervene. The president's ringing the bell.]] I trust you can support this.
u2016-09-12-210	Congresswoman! You have the right to answer, because I will give you the floor immediately. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You have the floor, Agnes Kunhalmi. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: László Kiss!]] Yeah, isn't the congresswoman answering? [[For signal:]] Congressman László Kiss responds. You have the word for rejoinder in one minute.
u2016-09-12-211	Sorry to bother you. Mr. Secretary. As a Greek Catholic, I am always happy when it comes to Eastern Christianity, this is a very important issue, but I think that the government could do much easier to combat the persecution of Christians than you have been talking about. For example, it would be a nice gesture if, in the name of Zsolt Bayer or himself, he apologized for the words he had committed, and it would have been a nice gesture if such a man, who made such anti-Christian comments, for example, had not been decorated. Then, of course, it is possible to combat the persecution of Christians if you have not been building Hungary of hatred systematically for months, but instead pursue a policy that is compatible, for example, with this religion. A great deal could also be done in the interests of Christianity, for example, by removing the abuse of one of Christendom's leaders from the Prime Minister's Facebook page and by apologizing to the Catholic Church for example that this might have happened on Facebook pages operated by you. All these things could be done for Christianity. Thank you very much.
u2016-09-12-212	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-09-12-213	Honourable Congressman, Of course, no one agrees with these disrespectful remarks, which is why I told you that both the Prime Minister and everyone who was there with him gave due respect to the Holy Father as this is due. It would be very easy to fight back in these moments to what Ferenc Gyurcsány or others said earlier. [[Dr. László Kács: Tell him that.]] But I think that the theme of Christian persecution is not to go into these kinds of give-and-takes, but to finally be here in our own country, based on Christian culture, whether religious or not, but to feel the responsibility - as we bear greater responsibility for our family members than for people we do not know. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: We shared clothes for Syrian Catholic children!]] For Christians in the Middle East, who were always on the most suffering side in all religious conflicts - to help them, for they were undeservedly forgotten by the Western world, closed their eyes when they were talking about their sufferings, somehow paying much more attention to other people's sufferings, less to theirs. Please don't try anything so casual. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] To make small battles, we will not be partners in this, but we will, of course, be partners in helping Christians, because they really need it. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You are a hypocrite! You're a hypocrite!]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-12-214	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Lajos Rig, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question. Problems, problems, problems? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the congressman if he will accept the person of the responding person or personally...
u2016-09-12-215	Since the Secretary of State is a great expert in prehospital care, I naturally accept it and we trust that it will provide an appropriate answer.
u2016-09-12-216	Congressman! Before you raise your question, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your cooperation, and I will give the chair to Vice-President Tamás Sneider. Thank you very much. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Mr President, it's been a pleasure.]] [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]]
u2016-09-12-217	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In the last 25 years, I could go back, for the past 30-40 years there has been a moral and financial crisis, which has led to a moral crisis. In the last 25 years, no government has been able to highlight the national rescue organization from this moral, moral and material crisis. There have been procurements of assets and cars that have, as a matter of fact, failed. This has been the result of fluctuations, as many professionals have left the course during these 25 years, there have been a lot of professionals, but this moral and moral crisis has been present in the 25 years. And then we arrived at the end of 2015 when a director general was appointed head of the National Rescue Service, who brought relief to the workers, as he tried to highlight rescue workers from the moral crisis with the momentum and morality inherited from his great-great-grandfather. This worked very well, but two or three weeks ago, the Minister made an announcement that he would appoint a man - and entrust him with a task - to the so-called head of the National Rescue Service, who had already failed between 2010 and 2013. An ex-Director General is charged with trade union negotiations and, so to speak, putting the career model on the table, who could not even write a proposal for a Director-General properly and could not put a concept of Director-General on the table - that is why he was appointed. I'm asking you now, Mr. Secretary, is it right to assign these tasks to a man who couldn't even get B-type ambulances normally, and during his administration, the State Audit Office has also written a report [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] which you didn't put in your pocket. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-12-218	I now give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, and welcome everyone with a lot of love.
u2016-09-12-219	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Somehow, when we said good-bye at the end of the previous session, you and others even criticized Jobbik's faction about how the rescue service should improve the conditions, although I will explain how much has happened. [[19.10]] Then suddenly, after the announcement of this personal decision, Jobbik published a statement, which is unusual for a party to stand up for a leader appointed during a government while there is no need to stand up for anyone. After all, there has been no change, but only one mandate has been given to a former head of the rescue service to carry out various meetings and calculations prior to the introduction of the rescue career model. After all, the government's intention, in addition to the fact that, of course, 95 thousand health workers will be covered by the wage increase that will still be paid in the coming months of this year's budget, and the budget for the next year will be 60-70-80 billion forints, well, we would also like to work out a special ambulance career, and to do so, the Minister asked a dedicated person to do this preparatory work. Then suddenly Jobbik started publishing announcements. This is difficult to understand, because since 2010, the timing of the rescue service has been completely different from before. Before the Gyurcsány-Bajnai period, there was a 5.2 percent reduction in the budget, while in our period, inflation essentially vanished, there was a 31 percent increase, which was able to stabilize the operation of the rescue service, and there was also the 11 billion forints that you know very well, which brought 22 new rescue stations and made it possible to modernise 60 of them. That was the stability we were trying to give to the rescue service. And I'll be back in one minute on what else was there, in which we've also tried to give you the respect you consider important.
u2016-09-12-220	Congressman Lajos Rig has the floor.
u2016-09-12-221	The man who ran a car tender that you said could be treated as an emergency patient in an intensive care unit has been appointed. I don't think you have to push the patient out of an intensive care unit to get a free air insurance, but you have to take the patient out of these ambulances, you have to stop on the move, if his circulation collapses, he stops breathing. The patient must be removed and treated there, as he has also implemented this procedure at the National Rescue Service, ignoring professional considerations and not asking professional people. Of course, the new Director-General has made good progress that we also supported. Is that weird for you if we don't attack a good measure? The opposition's job is to talk about them if there are any bad measures, but this is not only the opinion of the opposition, but also the opinion of the 7,000 rescue workers. And I trust that the moral crisis will not escalate, it will cease, because if this man is put back in his chair, this will be it. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-12-222	State Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2016-09-12-223	Thank you very much for the floor. I believe that it will greatly help to improve the question you mentioned, that, although you say that there were no positives in the previous period, if I only look at 2014, 178 new ambulances were put on the market, in 2015 21+32, 53 new ambulances and 22 new ambulances, a total of 75 new cars were put on the market. This is also important, since in the years before 2010, public procurement was not very much launched, ambulances were not much acquired, ambulances had to be replaced for several years. I think it is a common result of the post-2010 drivers that they were able to replace not only the missing ambulances, but also, at the end of the Gyurcsány-Bajna era, to purchase cars that they didn't have, which were not only driven by the intention of saving, but also to try to privatise this, to outsource it as much as possible, and to provide as possible through private service providers. This was a conscious, business-like activity, with which public public services were dismantled and profit-making was sought to be established here in the healthcare sector. Fortunately, since 2010, the directors have taken this differently. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-12-224	Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: å Extraordinary situation without reserves? It's an address. The congressman has the floor.
u2016-09-12-225	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'm sorry you have to stay here, but I asked you for two things so I could ask Minister. [[János Lázár: That's what I do.]] First of all, because as chief of staff, he may know more than the management of the FM and the Ministry of Interior, who pointed to each other in a case in the press, and in part, we are used to you having to explain yourself from time to time in matters related to the name of Sándor Fazekas. This reserve management is a matter which is very, very similar to the Office for Agriculture and Rural Development, after a lot of mischief, in order to cover the tracks, to eliminate the office; in the case of the National Fund of Land, the not-so-beautiful term for the Hungarian public took place, and here the reserve management centre or the Reserve management Nonprofit Kft. In his case, however, the problem is that he has a very big victim beside him. Mr István Nagy, State Secretary, mentioned in his reply to my fellow Member, László Földi, what international processes there are and what challenges humanity is facing. You can see the political temperature going up in the world. You can see that one of our biggest neighbours is at war, and the Hungarian government's answer is that, because of a few hundred million brokers, he is shutting down reserve management in Hungary. The Gyurcsánys started this, they sold the iron stocks at the time, and now it seems to disappear in addition to everything else, that I now see in announcements that they also advertise the former warehouses, releasing all their employees to the wind. This reserve management dates back to 1912 in Hungary and has practically spanned the last hundred years, since there has never been a time when the country did not have a strategic reserve. I ask Minister if he knows a European country or a civilised country where the entire reserve management will be liquidated and written to zero. Is it possible to know what the vision will be, what will become of it permanently in Hungary? If there are two wallets pointed at each other in the press, does the government have any idea of what will happen to the values that the Reserve Management Nonprofit Ltd. has so far. He treated me, and what about that fortune? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] That's what I'd expect you to inform me with respect. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-09-12-226	I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2016-09-12-227	Mr President, Dear fellow Member, It is not a problem for me to be here, it is my duty, so don't apologize in any way, because it would embarrass me if an opposition representative apologized for a question. However, I think that you have asked an important question, Mr President, and you have pointed out how an important issue can be ruined by a bad institution. Since I have been working in the government, I have had the situation and fate of the current institution on reserve management on my desk several times since 2012 and from the Prime Minister's table, and it is known to my fellow Members who have more experienced and information that each government has had its own problems with reserve management organisations. As far as I know, various investigations were started in 2010, criminal investigations were carried out before 2010 and various proceedings were started in 2014. It is well known what savings have been placed in various brokerage cases, risking the company's liquidity and assets. So I, in itself, considered the abolition of this structure to be fully supported and correct. On 5 May, the government heard a presentation on defence preparation, and the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Interior, the Minister of Agriculture and the Prime Minister's Office should jointly propose to the Government, by the end of September, that if we do not imagine in the current reserve management organisation the necessary reserve for defence situations, what Western European models and stocks are available. It's part of the truth that there was a problem that the Ministry of Agriculture solved through this device. Thus, the purchase of agricultural products and crops intended for reserve management is exempted from the EU's principles of market regulation, which meant that, for example, milk powder was produced before 2010, which was included in the reserve management. Let's not be specific about what happened next. Its aim was to manage the current market surplus in some way. I don't think it's a fair and fair instrument because it's abusive and not transparent. It is much more important that we have the necessary reserves in the event of protection from the point of view of defence. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-12-228	I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2016-09-12-229	I raised the question, Minister, but I have not yet received answers to the questions. What's the future? Where will it be? In 2014, if I looked well, the company's subscribed capital was 19 billion. What happened to this 19 billion-dollar value when Nonprofit Kft. It's gone? The FM now specifically advertises on websites the warehouses and huge areas of 30-40 hectares where this was done earlier. Why do you have to sell this? If there is a vision for the government to do something about this and to prepare for any crises... - I have just read in the weekly paper, it was handed over here by my fellow Member:, Six months has extended the continuation of the parliamentary crisis caused by mass immigration. If we are in such a political situation, then we just shouldn't sell the warehouses, we just need to upload them, and all this 19 billion wealth just disappeared, as it appears, selling the infrastructure where it's been stored so far. I would be honoured if you would specifically answer: what will happen in 2016 in order to store, to secure Hungary's food supply, to have security reserves? What's gonna happen in 2017? What does the government do? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] To put an end to this unacceptable state of affairs? Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[19.20]]
u2016-09-12-230	The Minister has the opportunity to answer.
u2016-09-12-231	Honourable Congressman! Of course, wealth doesn't take away. Here's what I'd like to tell you to answer your question. In the next period, i.e. after 1 October, we will give the government the necessary report and our proposal on what will happen. This is not an agricultural management and not an agricultural regulation instrument. I think we have to agree on that. It's a matter of national security. The national security cabinet must determine what means are needed. There are countries in which it is resolved not by setting up reserves, but simply by purchasing in case of emergency or, where appropriate, by booking, if there is an emergency, there should be no misunderstanding. So there are countries that do not resolve emergency preparedness by constantly increasing the reserve, say by buying cigarettes. This has also been the case, I note, in the last 25 years, that large quantities of tobacco have been bought in to regulate the tobacco market. I don't think that's normal. Congressman, we will inform you directly, but through the National Security Committee, the entire Parliament about the new rules for defence management, in particular, according to the provisions of the Minister for Home Affairs and the Minister for Defence. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-09-12-232	Dear Parliament, The hour of immediate questioning is over. We now have a general debate on the draft law on the publication of the agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Australia on the programme of temporary work tourists until closure. The government referral T/1231. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda.
u2016-09-12-233	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The aim of the proposal before you is to obtain the necessary authorisation to recognise the mandatory scope of the agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Australia on the temporary work programme of tourists and to declare the agreement. Under the Agreement, nationals of the two countries aged between 18 and 30 years may stay in the territory of the other Party for a maximum of 200 to 200 persons per year and may temporarily work if the conditions laid down in the Agreement are fulfilled. The establishment of the agreement would have a positive economic, tourist, cultural and educational impact on Hungarian-Australian relations as a whole. The conclusion of the agreement can help to broaden cooperation between the two countries in a dynamic way. Hungary has already concluded several similar international treaties, namely New Zealand, South Korea and Taiwan, and our country is currently negotiating with, for example, Chile, Hong Kong and Argentina. It is in the interest of both parties to enter into force as soon as possible. To this end, due to the issue of the supporting document for the application for a temporary work visa under tourism, a reasoned amendment to the legislation has already been made. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore respectfully request that the power to recognise the binding scope of the agreement and the publication of the agreement be supported by their vote in favour. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-09-12-234	Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mónika Bartos, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-09-12-235	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary of State! Fellow Members! We have talked about it several times between the walls of this House and we have agreed on how important it is for our young people to see the world, to gain experience, to gain experience, to learn, to test themselves and to make use of all this when they return home. This proposal contains a programme which is one of the instruments for this. It provides opportunities for young people aged 18-30 to travel, tours, learn about its natural beauty, culture and temporarily work there under certain conditions. The program provides a maximum of 200 Hungarian and 200 Australian young people with a stay of not more than one year each year. As the Secretary of State said, this practice is not unprecedented, since we have already concluded such an agreement with several countries, including New Zealand, in 2013, and according to this, hundreds of Hungarian and hundreds of New Zealand young people can work and travel to the partner country. The agreement with Australia is also important because it offers opportunities for young people to travel to a distant country, a distant continent, who would otherwise not have the opportunity to do so, and even these young people have the chance to meet Hungarians living there. In Hungarian-Australian relations, the Hungarian community of about 60,000 people living there, who live mainly in large cities, has a very important role to play, and they keep their Hungarian culture and the institutions serving it by their own strength, by means of difficulties and sacrifices. The so-called Hungarian houses have self-organized amateur dance groups, Dal circles, literary table companies. Their role is not only to preserve Hungarian culture, but also to show the Australian audience. The preservation, retention and enhancement of these houses will be a priority not only for the Australian Hungarians, but also for the Hungarian cultural policy. In 2014, President László Kövér thanked him for taking in the refugees of 1956. This is how the President said at the time: "The Hungarian community of over 100,000 living in Australia is a unique bond between the two countries, which in the future can make a significant contribution to the expansion of cooperation. In order to strengthen cultural relations, Mr. President set the opening of a Hungarian cultural centre as a priority in Sydney and, at the same time, the establishment of a similar Australian institution in Budapest. But this is not the only success story we have, a number of scientific collaborations have developed between universities in Hungary and there, and the number of these is constantly increasing. Despite the fact that the geographical distance between our countries is quite large, our economic relations are not insignificant. All of this shows that this programme does not stand on its own, and young Hungarians travelling to Australia and young Australians travelling to Australia do not come into a vacuum, but they are a new connection, they can be a new bridge between our countries, an opportunity that is not only for them, but also for our countries. That is why I ask you to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-09-12-236	I now give the floor to Tibor Bana, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-09-12-237	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This agreement is a template agreement between two countries, between Hungary and Australia. We have had agreements of this kind with several other states, such as the Republic of Korea or New Zealand. The purpose of this agreement is to develop human and youth relations between the two contracting countries. If we are to talk only about the legislative proposal before us, then perhaps it should not be said much longer. It may be worth adding so much, but fortunately, it has already done so before me: yes, this can provide a good opportunity for young people, or even in the longer term, for the Hungarian national economy to advance. So we are faced with an important purpose. And the agreement is, of course, eligible, we will vote in favour of it, but in a broader perspective, I think it is absolutely necessary to mention the issue of emigration, because I believe that this is a case that cannot be discussed enough here in Parliament. I would like to make it clear, although Jobbik has done this on numerous occasions, I think that whoever has followed our statements, whether the speeches of Jobbik's parliamentary faction, or the various campaigns of Jobbik's youth department, knows that we fully support Hungarian youth seeing the world, gaining experience, getting acquainted with different countries, their young associates, culture, and that it is not from the devil that someone is also pursuing his studies abroad, in any case, in the form of a scholarship for a longer period. [[19.30]] However, at a time when migration has grown to the extent that we have seen in recent years, and this is particularly true for young people, we cannot go without saying that, unfortunately, despite our suggestions in this matter, despite the very strong campaign of Jobbik's Youth Group in this matter, there have been no substantive responses from the government side to these proposals, and unfortunately the proposals for solutions have not been made. As I have already pointed out, the rate of emigration has clearly accelerated over the last few years, and many of them are already pursuing university studies abroad. I have already indicated that this is not a problem in itself, but it is certainly talkative that in 2015, so last year there was a high school from which nineteen out of 20 applicants submitted their application abroad. [[Károly Kontra: Mr President! You're not talking about the subject, Congressman. Please make arrangements.]] I think that's very telling. Secretary of State may indicate that this is not directly related to the Convention [[Károly Kontrat: It is not connected at all!]] But I believe that there is a need to talk about this and that there is a connection to the agreement before us. In this case, it must, of course, be underlined that the benefits of this agreement go beyond the risk of emigration. That is why we can support it, because we also consider it important to have such opportunities open to young Hungarians, and we can strengthen this direction. But what is important is that the government must do everything in its power to keep young people in the country. Believe me, Mr Secretary of State, I would not say this at this item on the agenda if I saw that this has been the case over the last few years, but unfortunately, this has not been the case. We good-looking people have had many suggestions on this issue, and we are also ready for a constructive debate on this, if the government is serious about solving this problem. I can only trust this, and the publication of the agreement, as I have already indicated, will, of course, be able to support it in the vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-12-238	I ask my fellow Members if anyone would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Kontra, if he wishes to comment. [[Károly Kontra: Yes.]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-09-12-239	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mr Mónika Bartos for his speech, who supported the proposal tabled on behalf of the Fidesz Group. Indeed, beyond what I said in support of the proposal, there is a significant Hungarian community in Australia, who preserve their Hungarian roots and maintain their relationship with Hungary in every possible way, and the Government of Hungary is also helping. This is also a very important aspect of this agreement. I trust that Parliament will support this. I also thank Mr Tibor Bana for his relevant sentences. And what doesn't fit here knows our point of view. When we were 20, we could not hope to study abroad or to work abroad and return home. Today, all Hungarian citizens have this freedom. We expect everyone back, and we hope that everyone who learns or acquires experience abroad will work for the Hungarian country when they return to Hungary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for your statements of support, and I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the proposal that has been tabled. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-09-12-240	Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. A general debate on the draft law between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Turkmenistan on the prevention of double taxation and avoidance of taxation in the field of income and property taxes will follow. The Government's referral is T/1123. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2016-09-12-241	Mr President, Dear Parliament, On 1 June 2016, Turkmenistan and I entered into a new agreement on the avoidance of double taxation in the field of income and property taxes. The agreement was signed in Budapest following consultations on the basis of the mandate given in the Prime Minister's decision and the Government's decision. The application of the Convention precludes double taxation of the income of individuals and businesses, specifying the scope of which Contracting State has the right to taxation in respect of each type of income or type of property. The Convention sets out the application of the principle of equal treatment and allows both Contracting Parties to initiate a reciprocal conciliation procedure with the other Party if it considers that its taxation does not comply with the provisions of the Convention. The Convention contains several guarantee measures to prevent tax evasion and evasion and provides the competent authorities of the Contracting Parties with the possibility of using full exchange of information in accordance with current international standards. The Hungarian-Turkmen Tax Convention is in line with the economic interests of the partner states in a balanced manner, and is in line with international practice in terms of the settlement of income and property taxation. The Convention also complies with the principles and rules adopted in the OECD Model Convention on Income and Asset Taxation and its commentary. However, the tax convention is in line with the other bilateral tax conventions that we have concluded so far and serves well the development of bilateral relations and the interests of investors. The need to establish a tax convention is confirmed by the fact that Hungary, like Austria, Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Croatia, will have an international treaty on taxation issues, which is essential for the development of business relations, which will also serve to improve the country's competitiveness. In order for the international treaty on the agenda to become part of internal law, it is necessary to recognise its binding scope and publish it in law. In view of the fact that the Convention concerns an exclusive legislative object, it should only be published by law. Dear Parliament, Based on what you've said, I ask you to accept the bill. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-09-12-242	Thank you. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. Once again, I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Bartos, on behalf of Fidesz.
u2016-09-12-243	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary of State! Fellow Members! I am very pleased to be the lead speaker of the Fidesz, not only because it is important, but also because in June 2014 I had the honour of attending the banquet given by President János Áder in honor of the Turkmen President coming to our country. Indeed, the President's meetings were followed by the signing of economic, scientific, cultural and educational cooperation. President of the Republic Áder at the banquet said, among other things, that Turkmenistan is not only an economic partner of Hungary, but also our historical roots. And the good thing is, we're not the only ones who think that. Several Turkish ethnic groups, including Turkme, consider the Hungarians to be their brothers and sisters, are classified as their closest relatives. An example of this is their participation in the Kurultai. The 2016 Kurultáj Hungarian tribal meeting was attended by hundreds of delegations out of 27 related nations to celebrate together the common ancient culture of the wilderness archery peoples. The delegation attended the event, some of which I mention: Turkish, Uzbek, Azerbaijani, Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, Ujgur, Bashkir, Tatar, Yakut, Chuvash, Burya, Tuva, Balakár, Dagestani and of course the Turkmene guests. The main patron of the event was Vice-President Sándor Lezsák, who said earlier in his speech in Parliament that the unique form of traditionalism is Kurultáj, the great event which dates back to the pre-Hungarian period, which leads back to ancient history. He said that Kurultáj was a celebration of kinship, cultural brotherhood and the search for common cultural traditions. I think that such festive events, moments in these chaotic times are really necessary. And these festive moments not only strengthen our cultural relations, they solder them, but also show up in our economic cooperation. What are they again? The trade flows between Hungary and Turkmenistan amounted to more than USD 37 million in 2015 and increased significantly compared to the previous year. The Hungarian partners are present among the others with medicines, technical equipment and transport equipment. It's also true that there are still undamaged possibilities. These need to be strengthened, and Parliamentary Secretary László Szabó stressed this at the business forum related to the second meeting of the Hungarian-Turkmen Cooperation Intergovernmental Committee in May this year. [[19.40]] At the same time, Minister of State pointed out that it was necessary to ensure that Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises could start investing in Turkmenistan and that they could find Turkmen products that could be marketed either in Hungary or in Europe. The Secretary of State has presented the proposal before us, seeking to create an economic environment with appropriate legal regulators that can further strengthen our economic relations, and this agreement can be another element of our continuous relationship system. That is why I ask my fellow Members to support it with their vote. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-09-12-244	I ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see a candidate. So I will conclude the general debate and ask Mr State Secretary if he wishes to comment. [[For signal:]] It says no. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the draft law on the publication of an Air Transport Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Kuwait until closure. Government referral T/11102. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr.László Tasó, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda.
u2016-09-12-245	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill is to integrate the air transport agreement with Kuwaiti parties into the Hungarian legal order. Pursuant to the Act on Procedures for International Contracts, the agreement must be published at the level of law. The current 44/1979. We now need to update a Council of Ministers decree. There are currently no scheduled flights between Hungary and Kuwait. The agreement concluded on 28 January 2016 provides a legal basis for compliance with EU standards and air transport between the two countries can be launched. The submission is also in line with the government programme. The Agreement covers rules for the operation of flights, cooperation between aviation authorities, coordination of aviation safety, in particular measures to ensure security of persons and property. The agreement will facilitate the contribution of air transport to economic cooperation between the two countries, including the development of trade and cultural relations. With all due respect to the Parliament, the T/11102. Please accept our bill and support the announcement of the agreement. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-09-12-246	Now we're going to have keynote speeches. Once again, I give the floor to Mónika Bartos, a representative of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-09-12-247	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! There is currently no direct air link between our country and Kuwait, and the fastest way to get to the Southwest Asian country is via Doha. Kuwait Airways does not fly directly to the Central and Eastern European region, Frankfurt, Rome, London, Paris and Genoa. Of the Gulf countries, Hungary first established political, economic and commercial relations with Kuwait State. During the Gulf War 1990-91, bilateral relations between Hungary and Kuwait continued to grow. Hungary's stand has helped to preserve its positive view of Kuwait. Over the last half century, many visits at ministerial and State Secretary level have also contributed to strengthening bilateral relations. Positive perception has also facilitated the development of our cultural and economic relations. It is typical of our cultural relations that the Hungarian government offers 20 places for students from Kuwait to study in Hungary through the. Stipendium Hungaricum. Students in Kuwait are primarily interested in medicine, engineering and water management. It is typical of our economic relations that, until the 1990s, Kuwait was the bridgehead of the Hungarian economy with hundreds of millions of US dollars in trade traffic in the region. The Economic Cooperation Agreement signed in 2011 is of historical importance and facilitates a gradual revival of trade and economic relations between the two countries. At the end of January, Minister of State László Szabó visited Kuwait, opened the Hungarian visa centre within the framework of the bilateral discussion, which could also boost tourism and business relations, since the Hungarian visa also means Schengen visa. Health cooperation was also mentioned during the visit. Among the results of recent years, the first Hungarian National Trading House Zrt. has been opened in the region for successful contacts, which is also responsible for Kuwait. It is evidence of successful trade between the two countries that in 2014 Hungarian exports to Kuwait amounted to $47.5 million, an 80% increase compared to the previous year, and Eximbank created a country limit of almost $400 million for Kuwait. I mentioned earlier that there were no regular flights between our country and Kuwait. The preamble to the proposal states that aviation is a means of promoting economic cooperation, trade relations and people-to-people relations and friendship, and I therefore trust that my fellow Members will support the proposal. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-09-12-248	I now give the floor to Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-09-12-249	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Not so long ago we had another similar bill before us, it was about air transport between Bahrain and Hungary in the spring session. This is also a similar agreement, and it is similar to the fact that it is also a Middle East country. If we have watched and supported the Bahraini agreement, then we have seen how economically developing Bahrain is, how developed it is in its finances, and indeed, if we want to be part of the economic development that is in the Middle East, then we must not miss it. In the case of Kuwait, the situation is different in that there has been legislation in this regard before, since there was this legislation of 1979, the 44th Council of Ministers regulation, which laid down this earlier. But, as Mr Secretary of State has already said in his introduction, there is a need for legislation at the legislative level, which is why he must be re-elected before Parliament, and that the Parliament approves the agreement that the Government has concluded, so that this agreement can enter into force. What's this about, why is it important? What can one country do in relation to another? On the one hand, the conventional airline can fly over the country, as well as over Kuwaiti Hungary. So this is just about flying through. It states that they should land for commercial purposes in the territory of the country concerned, and that they should fly and fly for whatever purpose, and that perhaps one of the most important things is that passenger traffic should also start, and that passengers, baggage, luggage, mail and other services should be provided. Obviously, it is perfectly all right that the government signs such a contract and such an agreement is reached between the two countries. Kuwait is a very important country in the Arab region, in the Middle East, because, as we have already heard, it is a small country, regardless of its economic development. Although it was only in 1961 that it gained its independence, during that time it was also a huge development. Obviously, this is not a coincidence, as it had the largest oil reserves in the Persian Gulf and in the Middle East region, in the Arabian Peninsula, and currently has the largest oil reserves. [[19.50]] Obviously that's why it was important for Iraq when he tried to acquire Kuwaiti oil in the Gulf War in 1991, and then, we know very well that it didn't work. But the progress this country has made means that the GDP per capita is 21 300 US dollars, so we can see that it is an economically highly developed and financially rich country. In addition, its economic development is much higher than that of the Hungarian state, since the average GDP growth is around 7 per cent per year, while according to statistics, a GDP growth of 2-3 per cent has only started in the last 1.5-2 years. So we are talking about a much higher, much more dynamic, developing country. Obviously, it is a good thing that transport is connected in the field of air services, thus creating more room for economic development, economic cooperation and greater scope for this kind of regulation. I would like to highlight one thing from the agreement itself, on which I would perhaps like to judge the Hungarian party a little bit when it is signed. I said the same thing about the agreement with the Kingdom of Bahrain. What I see is that these contracts are not primarily governed by national interests, not dominated by this. I am obviously aware that in the European Union we have certain commitments that must be fulfilled, but we can see that while the Kingdom of Bahrain concluded its contract in exactly the same way that Kuwait concludes in this agreement that the airline is set up in Kuwait's territory, says Article 3. More importantly, the airline is owned directly or through majority ownership by the State of Kuwait and/or its citizens. So there is such a clause, while obviously there is no such provision for the designated Hungarian airline in Hungary. Obviously, there is a big problem that Malév has already ceased as a national airline. It would be unnecessary to bring up here, in this debate - even if there is no debate - the legal fate and the reasons and effects that caused Malév to disappear, and it would be very good to say today that it is the Hungarian airline in Hungary that could bring passengers exclusively, bring luggage, mail and commercial activity exclusively in relation to the two countries. Unfortunately, we can no longer do this, so right now the Hungarian Party, the Hungarian Contracting Party, the Member States of the European Union and the European Free Trade Association and/or their citizens are linked to the holding of air traffic. So I think that these states are somehow much more protective of their own business interests, of their own citizens, of their own state. It is perhaps partly due to this fact that Kuwait's national income is many times what Hungary is, even though we are talking about a country that has been independent for just over fifty years. However, the agreement itself is acceptable, and the Movement for Jobbik Hungary supports this. Thank you so much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-09-12-250	I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the proposal. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see a candidate. I'll ask Mr. Taso if he wants to comment. No. Thank you. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. This brings us to the end of the discussion of today's agenda. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Mr László Varju applied for the speech after the first agenda:. In connection with the events of the last week. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-09-12-251	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, In fact, I would like to draw your attention to one exceptional thing, and in this way, too, I would like to draw attention to the fact that farmers and entrepreneurs are in a particularly difficult situation. Basically, meetings at my host hour confirmed that it is a national problem, even if we consider, or many of us see, that the Fidesz and its faction pay particular attention to the right conditions for hunters and hunting. I am also saying this because last year, this year, and it seems that next year, the Hunting Law has been amended and will be amended, but in the meantime, issues relating to wildlife damage cannot seem to be resolved by the government. Unfortunately, for farmers to whom this is damaging, this in itself means a great deal of annoyance, but it is also a serious financial loss in relation to the livelihood of the family. Therefore, a hobby and sport hunt, which can also help and support a responsible economic activity, since the regulation of wildlife in a given area is very important, I agree with that, but as is happening at the moment, I think that raises a number of questions. For this reason, in areas where the proliferation of wildlife results in serious damage to farmers, farmers, there is apparently insufficient and very incomplete legislation developed by the government. Moreover, there is a widespread reputation among people and the fact that the government is carrying out surveys in this regard, but plans to regulate this by 2018 alone, from the end of that year, from 1 November, in such a way that it wants to help the conditions for substantive settlement of claims. I understand that it is also necessary to introduce, practice and develop new legislation. Here, however, I would like to point out once again that the government has a much greater responsibility for the damage caused by the savages. Therefore, it is not only the settlement of claims in itself but also the need for information to farmers to whom this could be reassuring. I would like to draw the Government's attention to the need to carry out the related tasks. But what is at least as important is that the amount of money in relation to the settlement of wildlife damage should be properly recorded, and that is precisely to the farmers. Farmers to whom this harms should be able to obtain compensation, since the government's tasks in this regard must be organised and steps taken in this regard. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-09-12-252	On the next agenda, Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, on behalf of the MSZP, asked for a speech:. The word has begun for you.
u2016-09-12-253	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members of the Fidesz Group, - who aren't in the room at this time of night, are they? Yes, the year has begun. In the school year 2016-2017 more than 1 million 200 thousand primary and secondary school children started the school year: 750 thousand primary school students, 210 thousand high school students, 210 thousand high school students, 96 thousand specialized students, and, of course, let's not forget the 320 thousand preschool children. We have already heard from the Prime Minister and from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári how much better public education and education of school-age children have improved in recent years, and how much better it is for families to start school now than, say, years ago. At my press conference, I said that we shouldn't lie so much, and I'm saying on the record that the benches are always warning us that they're Christian people. Christian people don't lie! And here the fidesz, KDNP politicians lie to our eyes every day and say the wrong things. We know from surveys that in this year's school year, families spend about 12 percent more on starting school than last year. And if the pro-government politicians paid a little attention, they would find out why it is happening in Hungary, that in August the number of families borrowing personal loans, the number of families borrowing overdrafts and the number of families borrowing goods. There is only one reason why today more than 50 percent of Hungarian families can only finance school start-ups with credit. In August, a survey was carried out that 18 percent of Hungarian families had already taken out loans and 35 percent would take out loans and plan to start school, which is more than 50 percent. [[20.00]] We also need to talk about the fact that after a number of years, the lack of gymnasiums was not resolved at the start of school. I am constantly bombing the Ministry with written questions, and it has been revealed to me this summer that since 2018, the government has announced the construction of 78 gyms and schooles, 10 of which have been delivered so far, 10 of them from 78. Children continue to suffer from everyday physical education, lack of infrastructure, and I have repeatedly said in Parliament's walls that we have managed to make physical education a hated teaching gadget among Hungarian children. The existence of free textbooks in Hungary is a net lie. The government doesn't say that children get a free textbook up to HUF 12,000, so if teachers can't compile the package at the price of HUF 12,000, the rest will have to be paid to the parents. Now, rightly speaking, it has become common in schools that children learn at least one or two foreign languages, and the purchase of foreign language textbooks is one of the most expensive. Normally we talk about 3-4 thousand forints/books, but there are often 7-8 thousand forints textbooks, and then everyone can count what happens when the child learns two languages. About persistent books: I say as a practicing mother that I live September as a nightmare, when children bring the textbook home, we erase it for a week, and then we realize that I could throw these textbooks out, I don't have to erase them, because I can't do it, they're useless, and in many cases new textbooks have to be bought again after a week, because they're falling apart. By the way, a survey was carried out that over 90 percent of parents would prefer to buy books with great financial hardship, but the government would forget about this lasting textbook. I'm not even talking about what these books contain. There's no schedule, we're talking about missing teachers. In the country, in my own district, I live that every elementary school is missing 5-6-7 or even 11 teachers, so we start the years, and it gets worse every year. So all I can say is that I will continue tomorrow, Mr President, and I will continue to tell you what the problems are with starting a school year. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Anita Herring claps.]]
u2016-09-12-254	After the next agenda, Mr Zoltán Magyar, on behalf of Jobbik, applied for a speech entitled Quality Food for Hungary and the world. You have the floor.
u2016-09-12-255	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Minister Sándor Fazekas held a press conference at the address we just heard, not a week ago, and there would be nothing wrong with that title if we could believe in any aspect of the government's success communication, but unfortunately the practice shows a much sadder picture. We would really like to talk about how quality food will be for Hungary and the world. But what does reality show? It is not your first time at the forefront that long-term strategies are being formulated, it is enough to think back by 2010, where governance was started with the national rural strategy, to be more precise: the announcement of it. Since then, six years have passed, and the strategy has not started, but we are further away from the goals set in it than ever before. Then, with the Dányi Ignác plan, a kind of implementation plan, they tried to improve the situation, but it also remained at the level of beautiful words. Now we have another strategy, another beautiful word, and now it is trying to embrace an entire lifetime with Hungarian food by 2050. What is not credible, just as I began to speak, is because the national rural strategy should run out by 2020, so we are well beyond half-time, yet they do not dare to bring this to the House, they do not dare to report what the results are. 2050 is very far away, perhaps they hope that those who are sitting here now hearing these big announcements will no longer be able to answer to the government. But why do I consider this strategy to be discredited? For by fundamental means available to the government, and which would be destined for a normal country, we would really promote the resurrection of the Hungarian food industry, and indeed achieve the goals set out in this strategy, among other things, the government is not using them, but is abusing them and has started processes in the opposite direction. I am thinking of the fact that the legal environment is constantly being developed, previously in possession of two thirds of them by very brutal means, but, by the way, the majority of governments continue to do so today, so that they use instruments that rule out the possibility of realising these beautiful dreams. You are not using the legal environment to develop a truly self-sustaining, truly viable Hungarian countryside, using the European Union's potential, relying on domestic resources, but, on the contrary, you are using these tools only to achieve your own political goals. But we see the same thing in the field of property policy. Today, we have heard several speeches about how happy Hungarian farmers are about the government's granting of state land to them. I do not know if Balázs Győrffy, who raised this issue, or whether he is Minister or Secretary of State, who are answering the current questions, what country they are in, what country they are living in, but we have received information of a completely different nature. We were there at a number of auctions, and practically no day goes by where we don't get complaining letters, requests, phones from real locally-living family farmers, and they complain that they didn't get the land at all against previous promises. I know, of course, that under three acres of land and diribes were also given to real farmers, but the greasy bites, as we have said so many times here in Parliament, were given to the oligarchs and farmers near the government. This proves, too, that this strategy is not credible, it will not achieve its goals, these interests are occupied solely with their own profits, they do not care at all about providing healthy food to Hungary or even the world. But, for example, there are support policies, and we also see brutal disproportions. Back in the period prior to the government change in 2010, Fidesz's opposition was very vocal about the fact that most of the subsidies should be granted to family farms and not to the various capitalist interests. They would not have stopped this process, but turned it back, but committed themselves to building and cementing the great estate with even more brutal steps. It is enough to look at the 2015 figures, where we can see that the majority of the subsidies, almost two thirds, were awarded to the top 10 percent. The figures, the facts clearly show that Jobbik is indeed right when it says that the government has opposed the electoral process that, by the way, voted for Fidesz, i.e. rural Hungary, and Jobbik will have the task from 2018 to prove that it is possible to pursue a country-friendly policy in Hungary. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-12-256	Speaking after the next agenda, Mr Sallai R. Benedek, on behalf of the LMP, said: "Where did the Hungarian land go? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-09-12-257	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will continue around where my fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar, raised the questions about what Hungarian farmers see, what auctioneers see, and what people think about this auction. That is, I am not only going to continue there, because I was inspired today by our fellow Member Balázs Győrffy, who asked the Minister of Agriculture with such ingenious questions about what the opposition is protesting, why it is wrong for him that the land gets to Hungarian farmers. But I'm asking if that's where the land is going. The fate of the Hungarian land transcends Hungary's history, and it has always defined Hungary's relations, and obviously Fidesz began, drawing on this, to rebuild the feudal arrangement which, by the way, has really defined Hungary for centuries. But whether that's what XXI is supposed to do. Company to Hungary? The third round is over at the auction, the results are being made public. It's not very easy, so it's so difficult to process in PDF format, obviously so that they can't be scissored, it's very difficult to extract the data. Advertisements are posted and removed. Currently, the results of Pest County and Budapest are not available. [[20.10]] The announcement of results is incomplete in many places, in many cases the addresses of the apartment are also left, it is very difficult to identify many things. Nevertheless, thanks to God, the May Other Politics have volunteers who have reviewed this total of over 8,000 data, arranged it in an Excel table, and from then on we have been able to do the statistics that I wanted to report, and part of my question about what will happen to the fate of the Hungarian land, we can talk about it. I do not have to tell the audience here that it is the property of virtually all Hungarian people, the property of future generations, our children and our grandchildren, and Fidesz has practically done nothing but what its predecessors have been selling for the past 26 years, practically selling common property and trying to live up to it. However, this common wealth is more than just a wealth, since it is practically the strategic reserve of natural resources, and in a world like this, which is currently in place in 2016, and what we are looking at for for the next 30 years, indeed, it is very, very irresponsible to release this strategic reserve of natural resources from our hands. It is no coincidence, then, that, thanks to the activities of Sándor Fazekas, the programme will now enter the Hungarian history under the name of the rich, and it is worth it. I can confirm with specific statistics that I can give all the Excel tables to all interested journalists, 29 percent of the owners have taken 82 percent of the land. Less than a third took the vast majority of the land, and 37 percent, i.e. less than a quarter of the auctioneers or a little more than a third, had 3.6 percent of the total area. They got the little ones, they're covered by the government. 'Cause why do you have to cover up? Overall, 8745 holdings were sold by the government, which was purchased by a total of 3260 families and interests. There are only two who were able to buy more than 1,500 hectares together with their families, one Lőrinc Mészáros and his family, and the other, Csákvári Agricultural Zrt. the ownership of those who were able to do so. And obviously there is the Flier family and the Tiborcz family at the forefront, whose estates, along with their present compositions, now exceed the former estates of Archduke Joseph in the same area, and they have achieved all that. When we look for the answer to the question of who bought it, it is possible to say that Fidesz is a bark-handed farmer's class, because it is clear - although I do not want to make the mood - that almost 20% of lawyers bought from these lands, from the doctor's omens, or from their websites that it is easy to identify how these bark-handed lawyers only put their hands on the Hungarian soil in many, many times. More than 20 percent of all buyers are clearly city dwellers, living in cities with capital and county rights, in most cases more than 20 kilometers away from the land purchased. As a result, it is clear from all statistical data that the majority of the land was taken by farmers over 100 hectares, as well as 50 to 100 hectares, which can make many people wonder, since the average price of these lands in each county was over one million forints per hectare, which means that Hungarian farmers with bark hands, who bought alive with the possibilities, have indeed strengthened this new fidesz green baron layer. This is Fidesz's new estate policy, and that's what we need to identify with. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-09-12-258	Mr István Ikotity asked to speak after the next agenda with the title "The Balance of the Olympics." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-09-12-259	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, With the support of part of the opposition, the governing party decided that our country would participate in the 2024 Olympic competition. Despite the fact that the majority of the population of Budapest does not support the settlement, as the country as a whole is divided on this issue. Therefore, I think it is particularly important that, instead of PR campaigns, we finally look at the rational facts of what awaits us. In the debates that unfold on several occasions in the spring, we said that an Olympics always cost more than the pre-planned ones, so they did in the case of the Rio Olympics. Some important facts about the Rio Olympics. The cost of the settlement was $15 billion. The proceeds amount to $3.5-4 billion, consisting mainly of ticket sales, sponsorship, commercial distribution and television broadcasts. So the settlement cost about $10 billion. Other damage associated with sporting events, i.e. environmental damage, is invaluable in money. Such is the conversion of part of nature conservation zones into sports grounds or the violent evacuation of 77 thousand people. The Olympics in today's form were very far from their original ideals. It is a gigantic business venture, which is in fact a good business not for the directing country, but for the International Olympic Committee and the tight economic and political elite behind it. Instead of strengthening national cohesion in Brazil, the Olympics divided the Brazilian population. The new infrastructure has increased the real estate value of the better-living towns, but the city has become more unlivable to the poor. It can also be shown that, during the Olympics, the great tumult has caused traditional tourism to fall. The damage to cultural life, museum visits and so much more. This was the case in Barcelona, London, and in many places, which in any case attracts tourism; a decline has been observed during this period. Of course, the investments cost much more than the Brazilian government had planned in advance. Olympic sites have increased, huge investments bring speculation with them, corruption has increased, and this has deterred, deterred investors. Boston and Hamburg have already refused to settle the 2024 summer games, and Rome is most likely to withdraw, one of the first speeches of the new Roman mayor. The smaller, slimmer and more transparent Olympics, promoted by the International Olympic Committee in Agenda 2020, sound very nice, but not feasible. As long as the IOB in a monopoly position and the money lobby behind it are interested in collecting as much money as possible, the Olympics will not be able to return to their noble roots. Hungary can be a warning example of the experience of organizing the 2017 water World Championship. In its size and impact on the country's future, it is incompatible with the Olympics, but it shows the attitude of the governing force and the economic background: the costs are skyrocketing and kicking multiples compared to the original plan, playing out construction assignments unscrupulous for friendly companies, and without thinking about destroying all the trees and green areas that are in the way of investment. Let's just think about the high tide bath or the cut-off trees on Margaret Island this time. As a Hungarian politician, I would like our country not to have a reputation in the world through Olympics. Hungary should be famous for its low poverty, people living in a healthy environment, having jobs, leisure time and money for quality food. I would like to live in a country where we don't build football academies for the upper class, we don't send entrepreneurs close to the governing party to the stadium business, but we also create the possibility of sports for the middle and lower layers, which is an important part of the lives of small communities and also creates jobs. I would like to live in a country where not 10 to 20 percent of the population, but at least 70 percent of the population, move regularly. If the Hungarian government wants to act fairly, it will certainly help to bring about a national referendum, and we citizens can decide directly whether we want an Olympics in Hungary. Thank you for your attention. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2016-09-12-260	Mr László György Lukács applied for a speech after the next agenda:. Those who were left out of health care pay. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-09-12-261	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, One of the undisputed findings of the past period is that the wages of healthcare workers are not all right. Healthcare workers now look forward to the arrival of the 21st century across governments. 20th century, since not only the prevailing health conditions in the world are 20th century. People of the century, but unfortunately, wages were caught up in the 20th century. In the 20th century, and we can safely say and say the statistics that are perhaps the most shameful, because healthcare is the second worst performer in the social sphere, which is where workers earn the least. [[20.20]] Well, on this worker's poverty - as we can safely call it employee poverty - the government wanted to change, as if by hearing that sister-sister spring, and then again by spring, which became increasingly pressured on the Secretary of State's table every day. Thus, a wage agreement or a wage development that the government has ascribed to the greatest wage development of all time, and this was thought of both doctors and health professionals. It is also clear that the numbers are obviously not lying, as the gross increase of HUF 107 thousand and a gross increase of HUF 6,000 to HUF 60,000 are already significant for the workers. However, it can be seen, and the figures in this area do not lie about the fact that there are people who are missing out, because not all health professionals, not the nearly 100,000 workers, were affected by this increase in wages, but did not affect those persons who, for example, are nurses and nurses working in primary care. But it didn't affect health professionals who do everyday technical work, whether it's a simple office employee or those who screw up the light bulb when it's burned out in the ward. These workers, we put their number to about 20-30 thousand - they are currently changing by way of state reservations or other maintenance, so they work in municipal or other mixed systems - but they share the same quality: they are completely excluded from this wage increase, this wage arrangement. However, the opposition and civil voices finally reached the government's door and were heard, it seems to be the sound of shouting, because for the patronesses, exactly after it was found that they had not been included in the wage arrangement, the government came up with something. But this, in line with the government's previous activities, went through as a semi-solution, because what was provided for this - not a huge amount - could not have been used to raise the wages of the women in charge themselves, so the government also had to cosmetics this wage increase for them with a subsequent decision. Which, on the other hand, is no longer certain that it will happen, since the maintainer was asked to pay the rent that would otherwise be due to them from the amount transferred to them by the maintainer. Well, that's what you're gonna keep choosing to give them this raise. If not, their wages can only increase by a few thousand forints. And it should also be added that for a total of 129 thousand forints, which is a patron's salary, there may not be too many people in today's madness who want to choose a patron's profession. So it is safe to say that nearly 4,000 women in defense, nearly 8,000 district nurses and thousands of dental assistants and, by the way, more than ten thousand medical day-to-day workers, technical workers, have been left out or left out of this wage increase. And here we are, the situation of the rescue service has also been said today, well, the rescue workers have also done most of the same as the masses of health workers who have missed a wage increase, and they do not have this increase in wages either. There are thousands of rescue workers who won't get the last penny of the wage increase. For them, the only thing the government said was to wait patiently, to introduce a career model. By the way, I'm putting in parentheses that the government has been visualizing and working on the introduction of a career model since 2010, and that's what it says. It hasn't been implemented in health care since then. Well, this is the career model that the rescue workers should be waiting for. I believe that this is still a word in the wilderness, because it shows that they do not run the personal affairs of the rescue service in a consistent manner, and, for example, they will now throw into the trash a well-started, thought-out job by sending the head of the rescue service, his director. I do not think that this planned wage increase will cover the rescue workers to a sufficient extent. So, overall, we can conclude that the government's great effort has failed. Several people have stayed out of it, not fully ensuring that the entire spectrum of health care is given this wage increase, and this will stimulate internal tensions that will be felt by patients and, by the way, by the workers in the system. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-12-262	To speak after the next agenda, Mr Ander Balázs, on behalf of Jobbik, has asked for a speech:. When will you finally admit that the closure of a functioning village school is not a responsible maintenance step, but a rural destruction? Or do you think the village is a medieval reptile that needs to be eliminated? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-09-12-263	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz-KDNP rightly whipped the Balliberals and blamed them even today because of their attitude to village schools. However, while they were accused of treason from the opposition and described as a historical sin the policy of education for the past eight years, the closure of the structure is no longer the result of government power, but rather the rationalisation of the structure. From the point of view of power technology and propaganda, they must have learned a great deal from Big Brother, and so the closure of a well-functioning small school in Orwell, peace of war, freedom servitude, and ignorance, following the logic of power, can be the responsible maintenance effort of the Fidesz. At least according to the Secretary of State of Rétvári, who gave this rather cynical answer to my question about the closure of the high school in Somogy County in Vízvár. By the way, the Secretary of State gave a long list of the merits of the government, and expressed his hope that they would give birth to so many children that the school could be reopened. I wish that were true. But I have to disperse the pink fantasies. I'd like to inform you, if you were here, Secretary of State, that the kindergarten has been closed since then, and that you're in junior high. In addition, they falsely claimed that the parents themselves asked for the closure of the upper school. The parents, in their rightful indignation over the imposition of responsibility, sent the KLIK as many protesting signatures as they did during the parliamentary elections in 2014 to vote in Vízvár. If it's anything, it's true proof that the village community wanted the institution to remain. However, this petition has not been answered to this day. This proves very well what Fidesz-KDNP thinks about the civil organizations of local society, the people who are trying to save the future of that little village in some good interest. In the case of a budget disposing over the fate of a HUF 18,000 billion, the amount saved by these devastating steps does not mean anything. In fact, schools in particular cost more, but it would be appropriate for a government that considers itself national to see that this is not only an educational issue, but at least as much a social policy issue. In other words, why didn't you do everything you could to stop destroying the damaged social fabric system in the countryside with such a step? After all, the population retention force of the affected settlement is reduced, the village's death sentence is signed as a result and the final countdown can begin. Of course, we can see how tragic demographic processes are taking place. So it may be true that after a few years this school would indeed have become completely unviable, but in this case Fidesz-KDNP, lying to all the values they announced, actually practiced euthanasia over a small school. And then the whole question becomes particularly incomprehensible when we bring up the case of the Gypsy school in Palmjora, where Minister for the sake of seven children allowed the school's lower education to continue. We don't understand why he couldn't have done this in Vízvár for 41 senior students. If it worked in Pálmajor, why didn't the students in Vízvár have the right to equal opportunities? In view of this, the following questions must be answered. Since the 2010 change of government, how many primary schools have been completely or partially abolished, and what future does the Fidesz education policy have in mind for the institutions of small settlements suffering from child shortages? Based on size efficiency and economic arguments, how many more of these schools will be locked by the end of the cycle? Why don't you think about taking on the natural budget extra expenses involved, giving a discount on the number of children per class required for such vulnerable village schools? Does the government have some remorse, but at least a small amount of cognitive dissonance, if they then refer to Hopeik, saying, "Don't leave the temple, the church, and the school!" Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]] [[20.30]]
u2016-09-12-264	On the last agenda, Mr Gergely Farkas, on behalf of Jobbik, asked for a speech entitled: "The Book of the Nation," a programme for reading and promoting Hungarian culture. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-09-12-265	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, It is great, and I trust that we have started a nationally recognised action recently, as has been said in the title, in order to promote reading and Hungarian culture. We launched this program with the title "The Book of the Nation" with the Jobbik Youth Department, the year of self-education. For each year, Jobbik's Youth Department is a member of each of them with a name, an activity. This year is the year of self-education, which we serve with a number of publications, programs and applications, and this includes our application and our series of programs called The Book of the Nation, which has just been launched, promoting reading. The only thing about self-education is that it is said that those who constantly do not want to move forward are left behind. That's what motivates us. We would like to train ourselves, and we would like not only us, but as much of the youth as possible, to think that it is important, beyond the formal framework, to increase its knowledge by reading beyond school, by various trainings and self-serving. That is why we chose to read, because we consider it important in this regard. Reading can be a huge experience. I think that I do not need to discuss in detail what kind of depth reading can cause, what kind of catharsis it can cause to read a good book, which is why I trust it, although today there are very different trends in the lives of young people, a lot of people try or spend their time with other activities, less intense activities, series, movies, everything else, computer games. They may also have the beauty, but I encourage young people from here to find beauty, beauty in reading and good books, because besides providing an unforgettable experience, our vocabulary, our imagination, even our spelling can improve reading, so there are many of these benefits of reading a good book. Within our initiative, Hungarian books are covered by this whole application. We strive to find the most popular Hungarian book. Why only Hungarian books should be allowed to be used to justify the publication of the application. Our goal is to promote national culture. This does not, of course, mean that the exclusiveness of culture is that we only read Hungarian writers and works. The emphasis in this programme is that we would like to have the opportunity to gain insight into their great heritage by reciting and presenting the outstanding Hungarian writers and their works, which have often been forgotten, less well-known or even well-known. You can say that in a few months of the programme series, Hungarian works are now placed in the spotlight. This is an opportunity to discover the treasures that are next to us, to live among us, but often we do not notice them. On the beauty of reading, many writers and well-known personalities have also said; if I may, I would like to support this with some quotes as to why this activity is important. Mark Twain said, saying: "The man who doesn't read a book is no different from the man who can't read it," he said quite sharply. "By reading we accumulate knowledge in our brains, but it only becomes our own by thinking," says John Locke. Or Gyula Juhász:. The thermometer of the soul: the book. Tell me what you're reading and I'll tell you what you are. I'll tell you what your will is, your purpose, your desire, your dream. Miklós Radnóti said, "The books and experiences together form the soul." And István Örkény said, "It is a matter of life and death that you read between twenty and thirty. I was told that when I was 20 years old, but I didn't believe it either. I therefore encourage everyone to participate in this project. This project or this program - to use the word "Hungarian" - is better suited here - otherwise it does not want to refer in secret to the initiative of the Great Book of 2005 in very many cases, and we have drawn a lot of examples from there. I myself, as a high school student, think back to this project, this program with very good experiences and memories. I participated in it, and I voted with great pleasure in my favourite book. I trust there will be as many people involved in this operation as possible. You can enter a book through the website, we will select the most popular Hungarian book on the basis of a three-way vote. The address of the website is www.anemzetkonyve.hu. I encourage everyone to participate in this program. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-12-266	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 20:36 p.m.]] Mrs Loránt Violin Sz.k. Diligent Dezső s.k. notary
