u2016-12-05-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 28th day of the autumn session is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. Welcome to our dear guests and everyone who's watching our work. Dear Parliament, On behalf of Mrs Bernadett Szél, on behalf of the LMP, she applied for a pre-meeting speech. The government cannot solve the wage crisis itself. Here you go.
u2016-12-05-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The government is trying to perform difficult communication feats, as it is trying to convince people at the same time that things have been going well in Hungary, and from the other side it sets the wage increase as if a whole new era was beginning in Hungary. Apparently, this is an impossible enterprise. If things have been going well in Hungary, why are they only raising wages now? Why have we come to an age limit, as Mihály Varga has said, if you have said for years that the rise in real wages and taxes have been decreasing? Isn't it that they're trying to get close to the electorate again with a scam? The policy of Fidesz is quite sweaty, and it can also be seen when Mr Orbán talked about the fact that the only reason they weren't busy with wages is because they created jobs, says Fidesz, who doesn't have a job creation programme. But there is Minister Mihály Varga, whom I have seen in Parliament for a long time, but he is quite in contradiction with himself on a regular basis. Once he says that the increase in wages is made possible by competitive businesses, but in the next sentence he already talks about the increase in wages that he believes will increase competitiveness. One word, like a hundred: no matter how hard the Fidesz tries to interpret the wage increase as an integral part of his previous policy, or as a right change of direction in the next moment, none of it will be true. The truth is that wage increases are not an integral continuation of so far's policy, they are not the result of your policies so far. It is simply that you have created cheap wages in Hungary, and in recent years you have generated such emigration and labour shortages that have forced wage increases. So not the successes of recent years have enabled wages to finally rise, but the failure of so far's policy. But the fact is that we cannot call this increase an age limit, because we cannot say that the period of low wages is over because we live in a country - and even if the minimum wage is raised now, for example, we will still live in the same country next year - where a large part of the workers live in poverty. This means that Hungarian people are working for eight hours, and they cannot make a living, because even if they raise the minimum wage, they will still have a level below the minimum living rate next year, which is below the minimum living limit in 2015, but I think that this should not be celebrated so much by the Hungarian government. But there are a lot of losers in this policy that you're pursuing, hundreds of thousands of public workers who spend virtually 52,000 forints overnight. As I said, civil servants will not have their wages increased in the ninth year of next year, and we can see that the smallest mandatory wages will already cover two thirds of the civil servant's pay table, and a career graduate will earn the same amount as a graduate public servant on the field for ten years. But we can't talk about a change of direction either because the minimum wage and the minimum wage earners are not in a better position or even better. The government continues to insist on an unfair single-key tax, even though, for example, the multi-key tax proposed by the Politics would increase wages not only at the minimum wage level but also at the average and even the double average level. So with our policy, everyone would be better off; for example, those who earn twice the average wage would be better off. If the secretary of state were to do a little worse, you might be complaining about it, but the fact is that we, for example, want to politicalize the Hungarian people, and currently two thirds of Hungarian workers earn under average wage. These people would all benefit with us, but also those who earn twice the average wage. I would like to add that the problem with reducing employers' contributions is also that it is basically good for employers and not for workers. We said that employees' contributions should be reduced because of the net in the pockets. You said you'd rather have an employer's contribution, but then we'll see that it's going to be turned into a wage increase, and then you forgot to say it, so from here on out, we'll just see that employers are going to get better and that workers are going to have the same life as before or worse. It is not enough that the wages of workers are not increased beyond 1.2 million minimum wage, and they can even be particularly bad. The government, very badly, increases the minimum wage by increasing the burden on entrepreneurs, which a large part of small and medium-sized enterprises simply cannot manage. At a minimum wage level of 15,000, at a minimum wage earner, the wage cost increases by HUF 33,000. This will also boost prices; we can see that the bakers have already announced a 30% increase. So the government is not only messing with small and medium-sized enterprises, but also with everyone who eats bread in Hungary, but also with everyone who does not get paid next year. And then we didn't talk about pensioners, people living in poverty, the unemployed, who will be the most sensitive affected by the increase. But the main reason why we cannot call what the government is doing a change of direction is that large companies will be the biggest winners, and small and medium-sized enterprises, for example. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Once again, they get nothing from the Hungarian government. Possibly Other Politics continues to demand a complete change of direction, but apparently Fidesz is unable to do so.
u2016-12-05-2	I give the floor to Secretary Peter Cseresnyés. Here you go.
u2016-12-05-3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I don't want to misinterpret your words, but if I understand what you said here and there in haste, then we shouldn't raise wages in Hungary, because there will be consequences. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: You don't understand.]] We think we need to raise wages, because there's a consequence of more money than families, more money than people, more money for their own families, more for themselves. You have to say that here you have been trying to make a few statements as a fact, but how credible your statement is, your position before the agenda, let me highlight two things from it. He says that this government has no employment policy. Then please explain to the people who are listening to you how the number of people employed has increased by nearly 700,000 people in the last six years, between 2010 and 2016, while most of these employees have been able to work in the competitive sphere. [[13.10]] You say that Minister Varga has long seen him in Parliament, he hasn't been in Parliament lately. He answered your questions last week, among other things, so I think you are so credible, so credible is what you are saying from your opposition position. I would then like to state the facts of what has happened in the last six years and in the last one or two months. Data from the past period clearly show that the economy is on a growth path. This is, among other things, proof that employment has increased, as I have already said, nearly 700 thousand more people are working in Hungary today than in 2010, and wages have also increased as a result of the strengthening of the economy and the increase in employment. Since 2013, real wages have increased by around 24 percent, not nominal wages, but real wages, which you are trying to deny. Let's look at the year by year. In 2013, real wages increased by 2.7 percent, by 4 percent in 2014, by 4.2 percent in 2015, on average at the national economy level and by 7.6 percent in the first nine months of 2016; in the competitive sector, there was a slightly smaller increase in wages in the public sector, significantly higher than 8 percent. As a result of the long negotiations over the past two weeks and a half months, the Prime Minister signed the wage agreement that was concluded with the cooperation of workers in the social field about two weeks ago. Together with employers' and employees' representatives, the Prime Minister signed the minimum wage and guaranteed wage agreement, which significantly increased these wages, and which is expected to have such a significant impact on wages over the next period that wages will rise in other categories, as they have always done when the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage have risen. Over the next period, we are looking for a steady rise in wages, and for the next period, this forecast is also presented by experts who are looking into it. What the minimum wage increase meant, I would like to repeat it once more, although we already talked about it last week. In the following year, this will significantly increase the lower wage levels and will also have a significant impact on the wages of higher wage earners: in 2017, the minimum wage will increase by 15 percent, in 2018, by 8 percent, and the guaranteed minimum wage and the minimum wage of skilled workers will increase by 25 percent in 2017 and by 12 percent in 2018. This will, of course, significantly increase real wages, which means that families, as I have already mentioned, can translate more into themselves. One thing I would like to say is that public sector workers, public sector workers, also mentioned the need for a wage increase there. As I have already said, public sector workers and civil servants' wages have increased by more than 8 percent in real terms over the past period, and negotiations are under way to shape public sector workers' wages for state-owned companies as a result when negotiations are concluded. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] The Hungarian economy is strong and ensures that these wages will rise in the next period. Thank you very much. Excuse me, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-05-4	The head of the MSZP Group, Member Bertalan Tóth, also applied for a speech before the agenda: It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-12-05-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, "We are on our way," said the Prime Minister, in his usual radio interview last Friday. Before that, a certain Edward John Smith could say the same, in April 1912, when he was the captain of a ship called Titanic: we are on our way, and the course is a success - then the iceberg came, and unfortunately, the tragic consequences are known. Ladies and gentlemen, For years, we have been saying that Hungarian society has been divided into three parts: the Urizing Fidesz elite, the weakening middle class and the growing mass of the vulnerable. This picture is very similar to the way passengers are classified according to their origin and property status on the Titanic. The Prime Minister, just like the captain of the Titanic, was interested in making sure there was no passage between these social groups. The talented child of the poor family should not disturb the children of Garancsik, Tiborczok in education; that is why the public education system was destroyed, social spending reduced, minimum wage taxation. The Prime Minister, like the captain of Titanic, was interested in carrying as little burden as possible: we do not need so many lifeboats, we do not need so much social expenditure, we do not need so many pensions. The Prime Minister, just like the captain of Titanic, was interested in making the life of well-paying passengers, the Urizing Fidesz elite, as easy as possible: tax cuts, discounts, state orders for the Fidesz elite, because this is what it takes to keep power in the long term. Ladies and gentlemen, This is not the kind of Hungary we want. We believe that all people are equal, regardless of whether they were born in a rich or poor family, so everyone must have the chance to advance on the basis of their talent and performance, not because of their loyalty to the Urizing Fidesz elite. The first step is to create the basis for a safe living, increase salaries, double the rate of the planned pension increase, reduce the VAT on basic foods and reduce energy prices. Ladies and gentlemen, A change of direction is needed to avoid an iceberg, the first step is a raise. We say that the minimum wage should be 100,000 forints net. It is not a matter of reducing the profit tax of multinationals, but of reducing the burden of Hungarian workers, Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. [[13.20]] We will make our proposals on this today. I'm asking you to move from the multinational side and support our proposals. The second step is the pension increase. Hungarian pensioners need not only a one-time allowance, but twice as much a permanent pension increase. If the urizing Fidesz elite did not impair the performance of the economy, a significantly higher pension increase would be possible. The third step is to reduce VAT on basic foods. This may not be the urizing Fidesz elite, but it is for ordinary people, pensioners, families. The fourth step is to reduce energy prices. We have made a number of proposals on the reduction of energy prices, which was voted out by the Urising Fidesz elite at the Committee's meeting today. Why is it that when the price of oil was $50, there was a price of 50 forints a cubic meter of gas? And why is it that now, when the price of oil is between $45 and $50, the Hungarian people pay more than HUF 100 for gas? Why it cannot be reduced, why it cannot be accepted to reduce gas prices by 20 percent until average consumption, and electricity and district heating prices by 10-10 percent to average consumption. Ladies and gentlemen, The captain of the Titanic received a number of warnings about the dangers of the icebergs, but he ignored them. You do not make this mistake and support our proposals. And while we are at the ship, the means of transport, I must say that what happened in Budapest in the last few days has been quite amazing, that three out of four metro lines have been malfunctioning. We understand and see the bickering between István Tarlós and János Lázár, but now the life and physical integrity of the people of Budapest are at risk. It's a system malfunction that the government has a responsibility in. Ladies and gentlemen, The iceberg must be avoided for our common future, Hungary. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-12-05-6	I give the floor to State Secretary Csaba Dömötör.
u2016-12-05-7	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Chief of Staff, The Hungarian Socialist Party is asking important questions when it explores how Hungarian people live and what their future life prospects are. I also think that it is necessary to look at what Hungarian families can expect here from time to time during the speeches before the agenda. Dear House, I understand that the Hungarian Socialist Party is an opposition party, and it cannot spend its days applauding the government's decisions, but there have been measures in the last few weeks that you would be happy to have, if you really care about the situation of those who live on wages and salaries. For the longest time, they have spoken here as if they had not read the news, and as if they had completely ignored the fact that a great agreement had been reached between employers, workers and the government, which would create the possibility of lasting wage increases for several years. Perhaps it is not indifferent to you how minimum wage is developing. Well, they'll be up 15 percent next year, and another 8 percent next year. As far as the minimum wage for skilled workers is concerned, they increase by 25 percent and then by another 12 percent the following year. The fact is, therefore, that the MSZP has not increased the minimum wage in eight years as much as this government has in four years, and further increases will follow. When you were in government, the real value of the minimum wage rose by only 1 percent, whereas the current government raises the minimum wage from 73,000 to 138 thousand in 2018, almost double what you left behind. [[Sándor Burány: The real value of the minimum wage is falling!]] Allow me to make a point about this. Since 2010, the government has been striving to consistently reduce taxes, and the current minimum wage increases, as well as the current wage increases, have been made possible by these tax reductions. Next year, employers' taxes will be reduced by 5 percent and corporate tax will be reduced to 9 percent, which will otherwise be the lowest in Europe. They are cuts that make it easier for Hungarian employers to manage increased wages. I would also like to inform you that the government has also taken positive decisions for the elderly. We would like to honor those who have carried this country on their backs for decades. Pensions will increase more than planned, with a total of 1.6 percent from January onwards. This is because when this government took office, it undertook to preserve the value of pensions and to fulfill this commitment. Today, pensions are 8 percent higher than in 2010, which also means that while MSZP took a month's pension from the elderly, the civilian government returned it. With regard to the reduction of energy prices, it is strange that you are arguing for a reduction in costs while not supporting it and taking sides with Brussels and the multinationals. When you steered, the price of gas doubled and the electricity tripled. I would also like to tell you that the VAT on the most important foods is also falling. It is a measure that you supported a few months ago, and when the vote took place, you did not support it. So much for your attitude. Not only the elderly, but also the young can take a step forward in their own lives. There will be a family tax relief for children, a tax reduction for marriage, and a reduction in the VAT on Internet use. In addition, the government is looking at the possibility of making more use of the housing discount. As is known, more than 30,000 people have already made use of the opportunities provided by the home creation program, but we would like this number to continue to grow. We do not claim, Mr Group Leader, that these steps are sufficient, but we do say that they are steps in the right direction. On the other hand, in most cases you didn't even hit the direction. Instead of tax reductions, taxes were kept high. We remember well that the key was 38 percent, wages were inflected, unemployment doubled under your government, the country was indebted, and the families could expect nothing more than austerity, and if they were done, then another cutback. This was the iceberg before Titanic, not the current wage increases. The Hungarians said no to this in several elections, and they have been confirmed in recent years. Hungary is growing stronger, and this is the case even if there is still a lot of work to be done, and it is also true if the left in this work is still not to be expected. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-05-8	KDNP's representative, Miklós Soltész, also applied for a pre-meeting address, with the title "Nation and treason," then and now. Congressman's got the floor.
u2016-12-05-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Don't pay for double citizenship, don't pay 20,000 forints a month of our family's money, don't pay taxes, pensions, don't pay our jobs because of cheap cross-border workers - December 5, 2004, a referendum 12 years ago. Such a poster was made by the socialists, and in a cynical way, in order to even be vilified - I say this with your word - it was produced in Szeklerland. Ildikó Lendvai said: a mass immigration can crush the home country's economy. Ferenc Gyurcsány, your partner: the Hungarian ID has been replaced by some 770 000 people, if they receive citizenship and exercise their rights, it is calculated that it will cost all citizens living in Hungary an extra HUF 168 thousand a year. Lajos Korózs, a current socialist Member, said that, counting the relocation of 800,000 people, these expenses would amount to HUF 161 billion, otherwise people do not know what they are going to vote on. Dear Parliament, Jealousy, only economic aspects of people across the border, people who were cut off across the border, who, by the way, were placed where they are now, and the result continued 12 years ago. This attitude was a little similar to the fact that a child of his own, a relative, would only be disinherited because he might not be able to move forward financially, or he might be in need of something. Dear Parliament, In 2010, the left-wing rampage continued, as many socialist representatives - Ferenc Gyurcsány and Csaba Molnár, the current MEP Tibor Szanyi - refused to vote in favour of the dual citizenship law. Tibor Szanyi has been running amok ever since, and I haven't read it, I haven't heard it anywhere, that this was protested by left-wing organizations and left-wing parties. He said in response to the peace procession: I was very fond of seeing that they were also coming from across the border with numbers, so I will welcome them to their native language; then later he romanticized the Hungarian people. [[13.30]] It is time to remove the half-moon piece of Ukrainian national colours from the building of the Hungarian Parliament, said Tibor Székelyi about the flag on 8 November 2014. Dear Parliament, We understand that Ildikó Lendvai was not present at the vote of the Double Citizenship Act in 2010. But the fact that Gábor Vona did not take part in the vote can only be understood in the light of the current better-looking so-called national policy. After all, Jobbik is a national word, a tense and tempestuous one across the border, and a traitor in action. When it comes to protecting Hungary, Jobbik also starts a petty blackmail game. The party president Gábor Vona did not participate in the last MÁÉRT joint meeting, denying the leaders across the border, he said: he is a traitor who does not vote for the amendment of the Fundamental Law. Dear Parliament, It also shows that Jobbik is full of shit and lies. János Volner said a few weeks ago that by amending the Fundamental Law, the country would be legally protected against resettlement quotas. They can't decide what they want. They are on a platform with the Socialists, the Left and Ferenc Gyurcsány for many times. It must be said that the opposition has not changed in 12 years. It has been proven that Hungarian people are represented by the Fidesz-KDNP party association, whether within or outside the borders, only we are there for them. It is no coincidence that the success of the Carpathian Basin and all over the world is 920,000 new citizenships. We have protected the country from migration, and we will continue to fight against the compulsory resettlement quota. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-12-05-10	To answer, I give the floor to Mr. Árpád Potápi. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-12-05-11	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, It was a difficult day 12 years ago, causing great pain to many. Many people living beyond the border must have felt that the Hungarian nation was split in two. However, in recent years, we have all done a great deal to unite this fracture. Today, almost all Hungarian parties share a common position on the citizenship of Hungarians from abroad, so the consensus on national policy is almost complete. This in itself is a very great achievement. However, we regret and find it outrageous that the Democratic Coalition still does not wish to join this agreement. Historical success was the 2010 amendment of the Citizenship Act, which allowed Hungarians from abroad to become dual citizens. As you said, the number of Hungarian citizens has increased by 920,000 since the beginning of the naturalisation process. This shows that we will keep our promise: by the end of the cycle, there will be one million new Hungarian citizens. Foreign citizens can now intervene in the public affairs of the nation, as they also have the right to vote. Our new Fundamental Law also extended the responsibility for Hungarians across the border. With these measures, the nation has been merged with public law. In addition to public law consolidation, however, we need to pay more attention to the creation of a single economic space in the Carpathian Basin. In order for the demographic situation to improve, the birth rate to increase, the rate of migration to be reduced, more people to choose to thrive in the homeland, we also need to strengthen the Hungarians from abroad economically. This is why we support regional economic development plans, with HUF 50 billion for Vojvodina and HUF 32 billion for Transcarpathia, so we develop vocational training and support the strengthening of young entrepreneurs. The joint settlement of national cases is shown by the fact that the Hungarian Diaspora Council and the Hungarian Permanent Conference met last week. In the closing declaration of the two forums, we agreed that the programmes launched by the Hungarian government, such as Sándor Kőrösi-Csoma, Sándor Petőfi, the Mikes Kelemen programme, the 2016 programme of Hungarian entrepreneurs abroad, the Márton Áron Memorial Year, are all designed to strengthen Hungarian identity. The Hungarian Diaspora Council has adopted a document entitled "The Hungarian Diaspora Policy - Strategic Directions" which proposes four new development directions for our diaspora policy based on international examples. We've been looking at the diaspora policy of 40 countries. I think that these results, which have been produced in recent years, are very important not only for the Carpathian Basin, not only for the diaspora Hungarians, but also here, for us Hungarians in Hungary. However, we still need to join forces on issues relating to the whole nation. The government's actions so far have helped us forget the shame that fell on our nation on December 5, 2004. Today our most important task is to strengthen the Hungarian political representation and institutional system across borders. It will be important to join forces on 11 December when our Transylvanian friends measure themselves in the Romanian elections. I would also ask everyone, including those with Romanian citizenship in Hungary and those living in diaspora, to participate in the vote as many as possible and to strengthen the Hungarian representation in Romania, Transylvania. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-12-05-12	Your better representative, Mr.György Szilágyi, is now following:, How is corruption working in Hungary today? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-12-05-13	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, If we look at corruption as a phenomenon, the identity of Antal Rogán is inevitable. After all, the luxury, the urizing lifestyle that the Minister is pursuing, could not be continued with the money legally earned in his life. Then how can Antal Rogán afford all this? - the question comes up. Or what does the Minister do today, if he only has his revenue from his ministerial salary, because his monthly expenses are certainly not covered by his ministerial salary? Uncategorized, luxury holiday home, luxury car maintenance, bank payments, luxury travels, moving, expensive bag, other costs of family care, and more. The other thing that makes him inevitable is that if we look at corruption, his name comes up in serious corruption cases. Let's just think about the V. District real estate. Or should we think about his relationship with Tamás Portik - did he receive 10 million forints as bribes from Tamás Portik or not? Or think about his relationship with László Vizoviczki - how did they manage the various terrace permits in District V? Or let's just think of Antal Rogán's neighbor in Pasa's park soaring in the various state orders. Or let's think about the different issues of the Rogán-Habony-Andy Vajna Golden Triangle. Or the other big threesome, Balázs Rogán-Habony-Certész, has recently come to light on his questionable affairs! And we could have an endless list of cases, because there are. There are cases, but we tend to forget the past. You may recall that Balázs Kertész's name was already mentioned in a 20 billion embezzlement, the K&H scandal marked by Attila Kulcsár's name. Or we could also mention the old, different computer projects in which Rogan's acquaintances and friends appeared regularly in the early 2000s. If we add the last helicopter ride or the lies - because we should not forget that a Hungarian minister lied to the voters three times in one month, lied three times to the Hungarian society - then it is really incomprehensible if we consider all these things why Viktor Orbán is so attached to this man. But if we look more closely at the centralized corruption machine developed by Fidesz, then we must realize that Orbán is a key figure for Viktor Rogán in the state-controlled corruption system. It is clear that everything in Hungary can only happen with the consent of Viktor Orbán; Viktor will or will not allow it. In fact, the whole system was probably invented by Viktor Orbán. [[13.40]] He can operate from the background and distribute different tasks to different people. And Rogán is an important link in this Orbán system, he is the collision point, who defies attacks on Viktor Orbán with his body and person. He's the bad guy who makes a lot of money with this role because the boss lets him look for it. At his last ministerial hearing, Antal Rogán stated that he was happy as long as he was hit, and they weren't doing the same to the Prime Minister, he said. It also shows that the Prime Minister himself is behind this, he's figured out that he needs a Minister of Corruption to take the fall while they're in the background. Thus, the reason why Mr.Orbán said that the attacks only strengthen Antal Rogán's position is completely different, because it is understandable that the Prime Minister would like nothing less than to put himself at the centre of the corruption suspect cases. However, it is naive to think that this will always be the case, since it can be seen that the Prime Minister's nymphus has already started to disperse in the camp of Fidesz. Corruption minister or not, Rogan, Mészáros Lőrinc, Tiborcz, Vajna, Habony's business made the Prime Minister an emblematic figure of corruption. However, it is not possible to go without saying that the swamp of corruption is almost so stinky and so dirty that some Fidesz prominents are already separated. I am thinking of the multiple manifestations of the Speaker of the House, or of the Prime Minister's comment that everyone should answer for themselves. Understandable, yet absurd, that at present a self-respecting minister has no alternative but to distance himself from his fellow minister by rejecting collective responsibility. Gentlemen, this can't go on long. And the fact that you're going to fail at this wouldn't be a problem, but if you run this fidesz corrupt system for a long time, unfortunately, the country will be ruined. If you care about Hungary, then eliminate the corruption system that you have built, you have perfected over the past six years, and stop robbing and robbing the country. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-05-14	Once again, I give the floor to State Secretary Csaba Dömötör.
u2016-12-05-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As regards your comments on the Minister, since you directly assist the Prime Minister, it is clear that Antal Rogán is under increasing political attack. There is nothing to be surprised about this, as already in 2008 the left conspired with a mob leader to collect or produce smearing materials from fidesz politicians, and that list already included Antal Rogán. It is a new development that you will be joining this left-wing endeavour. Your speech also proves that the Prime Minister is actually being attacked, right now, through his colleagues. Besides, it's weird to accept a lecture from a party that hasn't yet clarified the role of its leader in an extensive VAT fraud. [[Dóra Dúró: It's not true!]] [[Dóra Dúró: It's not true!]] and which, to this day, is unable to answer how much of the faction spending can flow to a mysterious businessman. (Dóra Dúró: It's not true!) Have you ever asked that question? But to talk about the point: once again, after your speech, you feel that Jobbik hastens, aggressively attacks, and tries to somehow undone the fact that it goes against the country's interests in matters of racial seriousness. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: That's right!]] We have many examples of this. The most remarkable of these, however, is that Jobbik did not support the amendment of the Fundamental Law a few weeks ago. The aim of this was to be able to combat the resettlement plans in Brussels with sufficient force. Jobbik, along with the other opposition parties, crossed the amendment even though it was previously considered treason. [[Intercoms from Fidesz: That's right! Shame!]] Each party explained differently, brought up a different alibi; for example, you began to extort in a way that was otherwise similar to your speech. And by the looks of it, they're still trying to blackmail me. I'd like to tell you that 3.3 million people can't just be blackmailed. Our feeling is that Jobbik is a national party, but in action it is the realized sunflower: it always turns to where it hopes for a little power. That is why, according to the party president, Islam is mankind's last hope, and then its vice president in the country adopts an anti-Islamic decree. But the issue of constitutional amendment is not the only example. We remember well the wounds of the referendum between Hungary and Hungary on December 5th. We just talked about this. One of the important compensations for this was that the Parliament finally voted in favour of dual citizenship. The President of Jobbik, however, had more important things to do then, did not vote. Then there is the question of the Hungarian Permanent Conference. This is the forum where foreign Hungarians and the leaders of the mother country meet from time to time, where they discuss the most important national issues. [[István Szávay: We don't discuss anything! Nothing at all.]] However, Jobbik did not consider it important to be represented at the presidential level. Even the MSZP didn't have such a pull, they were also on a presidential level. Then all Hungarian people with national sentiments and Hungarian leaders from abroad are right to ask the question: what could be more important to the President of Jobbik than the meeting of MÁÉRT? Did the Members here ask him that question? Let me ask you. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Ask him! István Szávay: We asked you a question!]] I guess not. [[Interviews from Jobbik: Answer, do not deal with the President of Jobbik! Let's do this. Leave it to him.]] Dear House, This summer, Jobbik's president published a speechable writing in which he said he had taken the party's soul. For a long time we didn't know what that meant, but now it's a clearer picture, because only a soulless party is capable of tripping the constitutional amendment while it was previously considered treasonous; only a soulless party tolerates spies among its ranks [[István Szávay: Let's talk about the point.]] ; and only a soulless party cooperates with extremist organizations while promoting law enforcement. I do not know why Jobbik's soul was taken, but we recommend that it be brought back quickly; not because we would shed great tears because of Jobbik, but because in public life we need parties that, if necessary, are able to stand up for the interests of Hungary. Thank you for listening. [[Intruder from Fidesz: That's right! Intercom from Jobbik's benches: Huh! A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-05-16	Lajos Kósa Group leader, on the Fidesz side, will be the last to take the floor in the list of speakers on the agenda. Here you go. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Come on, stand-up!]]
u2016-12-05-17	Mr. President. Dear House, Recently since the change of regime [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] the government has concluded a major wage agreement with employers and employees. In this context, Hungary can start on the pay-receiving path, the ultimate goal of which is to bring the Hungarian wage level closer to the EU average. To this end, of course, beyond the agreement, which is of great importance, as the minimum wage is now rising by 15 percent and next year by 8 percent, the minimum wage for skilled workers is rising by 25 per cent now and by 12 per cent next year, social security costs are falling by 5 per cent, thus providing coverage for wage increases by 5 per cent and 2 per cent next year, so this is an extremely significant wage increase in itself. But it is very important to know that Parliament has a job to do with this, because if we cannot adopt the relevant legislation this year, then from 1 January, the catch-up system we have imagined cannot start. Of course, everyone can decide what they think is important and what they don't. Obviously, people can count, no matter what the socialists say, two numbers must be compared: in the last year of the socialists the minimum wage was 73,500 forints, from 1 January it will be 27,500 forints... [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] ... 127 500 forints. Now, 73,500 forints is obviously dramatically less than 127,500 forints, whatever the socialists say about the wage increase, their production is that the minimum wage in Hungary has risen minimally, and in Hungary there could have been quite simply not only a pay gap, but also the possibility and position of the country in terms of real wages has been steadily reduced. I would now like to ask Members to support the legislative amendment that represents this part of the tax package, to support the tax reduction and to support the possibility of raising the minimum wage through the tax reduction. Obviously, the two can only be understood at the same time, since only the socialists are able to reduce the minimum wage increase and demand much more at the same time, and regret the same move at the same time that the minimum wage increase will destroy businesses. And that doesn't bother them, but the disturbing facts of reality don't have to bother the socialists in this regard. We must present a feasible programme to Parliament, by sure voting in favour of it does not serve to destroy the Hungarian economy, but can also improve the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy. That's how the deal was made. [[13.50]] Of course, we are not only concerned with economic developments and wage increases in the economy, but also in many other sectors, the wage increase has already been made in part and is still partly ahead of us. The Parliament has also prepared a five-party agreement to organise the Mayors' wages, in this connection I would like to say to the fellow Members: it is quite clear that the proposal that the five-party agreement accepted only partially dealt with the problem. We are convinced that the whole system must be rethinked and that a comprehensive solution and settlement should be placed on the table in relation to the mayor's and representatives' remunerations in the Act on Hungarian municipalities. So this matter is not off the agenda, but we have to deal with it at the February session, the wording of the agreement that was otherwise reflected in the five-party agreement. Overall, I would like to ask our fellow Members to support the government's tax reduction proposal and to support this tax reduction in order to make it possible to start the pay gap and to increase the wage that could lead to a favourable wage rise process for all Hungarian workers. I need your support. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-05-18	András Tállai, State Secretary, has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-12-05-19	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] If you'll allow me, I'd like to look back a little for a few years, exactly six years, to the state of the country in 2010, in which the country was then in this regard. First of all, the unemployment rate was almost 12 percent in 2010, at the time of the change of government, which meant that more than 500 thousand unemployed people were in Hungary. The number of employees aged 15-74 was 3 million 732,000 400 in 2010. The government clearly set the goal of creating one million jobs in Hungary in 10 years, setting the goal of reducing unemployment and increasing the number and proportion of employees. As a result of six years of hard, consistent work, the same figures at the end of 2016 are as follows: unemployment rates in Hungary fell below 5 per cent; employment between 15 and 74 is 4 million 342 thousand 700, i.e. 600 thousand more people have jobs than in the change of government. This also means that, while the government has faced rising unemployment from 2010, it has achieved in six years that there is essentially a shortage of labour in Hungary. In order to maintain the economy, the value and strength of the economy, we need a competitive economy, we need a competitive workforce, and the government has said that, in order to be competitive, we need a significant increase in labour income, we need a significant increase in the minimum wage and professional wage. From an important competitiveness point of view, it is the ability of Hungarian companies to generate this source, so the government concluded a six-year wage agreement in November, which is otherwise unprecedented in Hungary's history, but also in the international context, since the government agreed with employers and employees how much they would increase wages in six years, and at the same time the government agreed to reduce public burdens. This has not been the case in Hungary. I think it is not a big word when I can say to this agreement that there has been a historic agreement in the life of Hungary, in the lives of Hungarian workers, employers and government. It is very important that businesses can generate these funds, so the commitment by the government is: on the one hand, it reduces the corporate tax rate to 9 per cent, leaving 145 billion forints in the register of businesses, from which they can make improvements, creating new jobs and raising employees' wages. With the 9 percent corporate tax, we are first in terms of the European Union, since this is the lowest rate of corporate tax in Hungary. We are also taking a significant step towards reducing the tax burden on employers, as this is now 48.2 percent of the tax wedge, with which we are not in the right place for the OECD countries. By recognising this, we will reduce the tax burden on employers, i.e. the social contribution tax in 2017 by 5 percent and in the following years by 2 percent and 2-2 percent in the next three or four years, subject to conditions and wage increases, thus reducing the rate of employer tax by 15.5 percent over the next six years. This means that Hungary can also become the leader of the European Union in this public space. Within a few years, Hungary can be one of the most competitive countries in the European Union, and this will require the hard-core government, consistent work of the last six years, the performance of the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian people, in this form, in the form of wage growth. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-05-20	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2016-12-05-21	Dear Parliament, Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: Zoltán Kész, independent; Tamás Pintér, Jobbik; László Horváth, Fidesz. On Tuesday, the following representatives came forward to address the agenda: Ákos Hadházy, LMP; Lajos Korózs, MSZP; Gábor Staudt, Jobbik; Péter Harrach, KDNP; Richárd Hörcsik, Fidesz. On Tuesday he applied for a speech after the agenda: Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Nándor Gúr, MSZP. On Wednesday he applied for a speech after the agenda: Csaba Gyüre, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik. On Thursday he applied for a speech after the agenda: László György Lukács, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; István Szávay, Jobbik.
u2016-12-05-22	Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that Marcel Szabó, Deputy Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, has resigned on 30 November 2016 in order to carry out his term of office as constitutional judge. Dear House, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits shall be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. First, we decide to derogate from house rules. The House Committee, in its derogation from the house rules, initiates the National Assembly to amend certain laws on financial and economic matters T/13159. In the course of the negotiation of the No.3 proposal, move away from the House Rule in such a way that a representative can submit an amendment on 6 December at 16.30 a.m. and the final vote will take place on 12 December. A derogation from the house rules was proposed by T/13159/2. You can get to know him on the website. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has adopted a derogation from the house rules by 154 votes in favour, 2 against and 3 abstentions. In accordance with our agreed decision, amendments can be submitted at 16.30 a.m. tomorrow. [[14.00]] We are now deciding on a motion to amend the agenda. The Fidesz Group has proposed that T/13159 on the amendment of certain laws on financial and economic matters. The consolidated debate on the legislative proposal No.2 shall take place on Thursday as the first item on the agenda, the decision on the draft amendment and the final vote shall take place on Monday 12 December. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group also proposed that, at today's meeting, T/12739 on the amendment of individual laws in connection with the introduction of an annuity for dance arts. The last item on the agenda is the debate on the Commission's reports and the summary amendment proposed by the legislative proposal No. Anyone who agrees with that, please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. The Fidesz Group has proposed that B/1208. the 2015 report by the President of the National Court of Justice and the H/12933. The joint general debate on the proposal for a resolution on Tuesday shall be held as the last item on the agenda. All in favor of this, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I note that the visible majority of this House supported the proposal. The Fidesz Group has still proposed that T/12969 on the amendment of certain laws in connection with the declaration of a public holiday on Friday The general discussion of the legislative proposal No. 1 shall not take place until the closure on Thursday's meeting. Anyone who agrees with that, please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear House, In the absence of a committee agreement, we are now deciding on the Commission's discussion and decision-making. According to the proposal put forward by the President, the Parliament on the development of the country's territorial processes between 2009 and 2014 and on the effects of territorial development policy, the implementation of spatial planning plans, the use of funds for territorial development and the international and border territorial development and spatial planning activities B/13058. The designated committee shall be invited to take its decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the designated Economic Committee will be invited by B/13058. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament asked the designated committee, according to the proposal, by 110 votes in favour, 50 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, A decision on a personal proposal will not take place today. Now, at 2:04 p.m., we move on to interpellation, immediate questions and questions. Dear Parliament, Sándor Burány, István Hiller and Ágnes Kunhalmi, representatives of the MSZP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources. Congressman Burány has the floor.
u2016-12-05-23	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In recent days, an unprecedented, at least unprecedented case has occurred in Ferenc Jahn's South-Pest Hospital: the health institution IX. In the women's bathroom of his upstairs waiting room, a day - I repeat: several days! - they found a body where they should at least be cleaning every day. Dear House, There are simply no words to comment on what happened. There are no words, but there are facts, which include more and more press reports and reports about the untenable conditions prevailing recently at Jahn Ferenc Hospital. The fact is that while the government is planning to build superhospitals, it just promises to develop existing hospitals. The Jahn Ferenc South-Pest Hospital and Clinic provides nearly 380,000 people with an average of 90 to 100 patients per day in the emergency department. The workers are doing their job with extreme stress, and from 1 April they will also have to perform 24-hour surgery, which will put additional burdens on doctors and workers. Dear Secretary of State, The result of the shocking event in the hospital is that since 2010, your government has withdrawn approximately HUF 400 billion from the sector annually, the hospitals have been destroyed and the basic supply has been destroyed - it is also a shame. Today, more people die from hospital infections than in a car accident, medical emigration, a lack of nurses, has reached chronic proportions. Your health policy has neither humanity nor resources. How was it possible that a body wouldn't show up in the hospital bathroom for days? Did the Minister or the Secretary of State order that hospitals be screened after examining the specific case, after being held accountable? Do you feel personally responsible for what happened at Jahn Ferenc Hospital? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-12-05-24	In response, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2016-12-05-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The hospital has ordered an immediate and detailed investigation of the case, precisely so that we can get all the facts, all the details. You've been treating that body as cash for how many days - we don't know right now. When the autopsy is over, and we see exactly what the results are, we will see whether that body was actually lying there for several days or not, but regardless, an immediate examination of both the cause of death and the time of death had to be started. We know that the deceased herself has been in the hospital several times, all of these treatments have been given, medical attention, and at the same time has suffered from several chronic diseases. The body was moved to the judicial institution, and will be examined there, but the police found no evidence of foul play during the crime scene, so it's unlikely that he was the victim of some kind of assassination. I would like to correct a few of your statements, honourable Member, on the subject of health and not only on the basis of our wallet data, but also on the basis of OECD data which contradict your many sentences. You say that 400 billion forints were withdrawn from health care each year, and they have already said 200 plus 100, and they seem to be bidding on each other from week to week, who can say higher numbers. On the other hand, the OECD published its annual report, its annual monitor, which also monitors the support and the situation of Hungarian health, just a week and a half ago, and notes that although there was a very large withdrawal of funds in healthcare before 2010, it was compensated by an excess of resources after 2010. He examined the budgetary situation of health by 2015 and showed an increase of almost 1.5 per cent, 1.2 per cent of GDP, and this increase was, however, accompanied by an increase in GDP as a whole. So the OECD itself has made it clear that additional resources have finally appeared in health care, as we have been able to make improvements over the last six years that were delayed in health care not four years ago, not five years ago, but 20-30 years ago, mainly in the countryside. As regards the number and proportion of hospital infections, honourable Member, these data can be found not only on the Hungarian health websites but also on the websites of the international organisation, the European Union institutions. This shows two things: the width and depth of data provision in Hungary is much greater than in many other EU countries, and we have nothing to be ashamed of, and that is a very positive one, and I think we can all be happy that the number of cases related to the three most common hospital infections has decreased by 5 percent in the last year, which is also a good news. Obviously, any number of cases can be further improved, but the positive trend, we believe, can be of benefit to all of us. So, in contrast to what was said about the withdrawal of resources from previous times, there is now finally a surplus of resources in health care, and this can be seen here and there, and can be seen in action, on the one hand, in medical wages, which have increased by 107 thousand forints for specialists in hospitals as early as 1 September this year, and in the case of specialists, it has increased by 100,000 forints from 1 November next year, but it can also be seen in the salaries of nurses, which increase by 26,5 percent this year, by 12 percent next year, by 8 and an additional 8 percent. [[14.10]] All these items will also be added to the health budget. This year it is about HUF 20 billion, and in the following year it is more than HUF 80 billion, which appears only in wages as an additional source of health care. Overall, the 2017 budget contains HUF 171 billion more for health than the budget originally adopted for 2016. This is already measured in GDP terms, which is another half of GDP. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So, overall, this represents an additional health resource of almost 2 per cent of GDP over the last three to four years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-12-05-26	I'll give the congressman the floor for a rejoinder.
u2016-12-05-27	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, That answer is quite simply unacceptable, Mr Secretary of State. The problem is, you're unable to see reality from your victory reports. It is quite simply unprecedented that so many doctors go abroad. It is quite simply unprecedented that the lack of a nurse is so chronic. It is quite simply unprecedented that as people go to the hospital to heal, we hear more and more about such tragic cases. It doesn't matter if this body was three or five days old. You can't have a dead body in a hospital bathroom undetected. The example in this regard is simply unacceptable; and, Mr Secretary of State, it is not an individual case, unfortunately. Since then, a day-old body was found in Győr in a hospital. Are you trying to explain that? ! For less than that, a minister should resign. Mr Secretary, I repeat, this answer is unacceptable. Thank you very much.
u2016-12-05-28	I ask this House whether they will accept the reply of the Secretary of State. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 106 votes to 37, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources. It's an address. The congressman has the floor.
u2016-12-05-29	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, There's been a question of gratitude money before. Then I guess I didn't get a satisfactory, satisfactory answer. For this reason, I think that we need to talk again about the institution of gratuity, so I would like to remind you once again of the following. We can agree that perhaps one of the most repulsive elements of Hungarian health care is gratuity money. Thanks money is so part of today's supply system that there are journalists who are testing whether you can survive an operation or a hospital stay just without it. But there are forums where patients are looking for an answer to which doctor in which hospital it is appropriate or mandatory to give, because it is also mandatory to give. It is mandatory, even expected, as a tariff, and even serious business lines have been established for gratuity money, when some doctors do not, by the way, work, perform surgeries, deliver births so that they can receive their gratuity money for the intervention just after or even in advance. It's not about employment, it's about the patient and their vulnerability. It has to be said that gratitude money today has nothing to do with gratitude in return, but rather with the wages of fear. The current legislation considers gratuity money to be a disgrace in the event that the head of the institution allows it, not in advance, but after the intervention. Of course, this regulation not only legitimizes the system of gratuity money, but also leaves loopholes, opens the way for loopholes, and operates illegal gratuities. A sober-thinking legislator might also believe that if the legislation allows the employees to accept gratuity money under such legal conditions, they will also keep some kind of record of it. However, it seems that the State does not bother to make data on gratuity money transparent or even to keep any records on it. Without knowing the problem, it must be stated that it cannot be dealt with effectively. How will anyone know if the gratitude money they give you is given illegally or legally, or who they give it to, who they don't, or even why they have to give it to? In order to help people create transparency in recent times, we have made a map of gratitude money based on a request for data in the public interest, from which we now know which hospitals are prohibited and which hospitals still have gratuity money. That is to say, we now know where to end it, because, Mr. Secretary of State, this must also be said, the gratuity money must be abolished, and it must also be said that by 2020 at the latest, until 2020 at the latest, the gratuity money must disappear from the system. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Dear Secretary of State, What does the government do to get the gratuity money out of the system? Why doesn't the state institutionkeeper know where they can and where they can and how the government intends to liquidate the system of gratuity money? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-05-30	Mr. Congressman, next time, don't start listing your questions at the end of three minutes. Thank you very much. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-12-05-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I see that Jobbik is in follow-up mode, and it recognizes each problem with years of delay, and is trying to make proposals or to set goals more precisely that others have set before it, but the proposals that are intended to resolve precisely the elimination of the Thanksgiving money and, more specifically, to eliminate the situations that lead to the gratuity money system, have been voted out, precisely because I think there are days to talk about the negative consequences of the gratuity money. On the one hand, it increases the grey economy and, on the other hand, it is bad for the person who gives it, the patient, because the feeling of vulnerability is growing in it, it is bad for the doctor, because he does not obviously want to receive these money in an envelope, but also with his payment paper, as a legal income. And it's bad for the whole supply system, because in many cases it's not in the care of the patient, it's not in the patient's interest, it's in maximizing the gratitude money that's in the minds of some actors, and they're also trying to organize patient care in some places with regard to gratitude money, not to the patient's interests. It's definitely hard. For young doctors, perhaps double, because it can often be precisely the system of gratuity that makes progress difficult, and they cannot meet patients in their own territory, treat patients, and progress in their own profession. That is why the government has decided that, in all ways, as can be done against gratuity money, we will do so, and precisely in the way that we have talked about many times, primarily through increases in salaries, increases in medical and nursing wages. And we are most sorry to say that Jobbik has not supported any of the steps here in Parliament. [[Dr. László Kács: Didn't you have enough majority?]] As it has always been said, whether in 2012-13 or this year, to provide additional resources to health care workers, hospitals, and thus to create a financial situation that will bring us closer to eliminating the gratitude money, Jobbik unfortunately did not support any of the proposals. And the fact that you want to keep a record of gratitude money, how much gratitude money you ask for, is quite horrifying, as it would mean preserving the system itself, and thus clarifying the tariffs in this system that has been rolling in front of us since at least 1958, since it was officially the first time that the term "thank money" was spoken at an MSZMP convention. Like I said, at the beginning of the raises, we were trying to counter this gratuity money. This was a clear sign that the 3,500 young specialists who have entered the residency support program in recent years since 2011, so in the last five years, everyone has signed that for the 100-150 or 200 thousand HUF extra scholarship they receive, they will not accept any gratuity money in return. We hope that this 3,500 young doctors will operate in a cleaner and more transparent system. It is also important that the wage increase itself, the rate of which, as I said, is 107 plus 100 thousand forints and 100 per cent for nurses between 2012-19, thus doubling their income, does not only cover the basic wage. It also covers the mobile pay element. Remember, the previous wage increase of 12-13 was extended in the summer of 15 in addition to the basic wage elements to the mobile wage elements. Well, this rise pulls the extra shifts with it, pulls up the on-call fees, pulls up the standby fee, pulls up the extra wage for extraordinary work, pulls up the extra shifts, so it has to be taken into account for each one, so what really happens to doctors, nurses, in their pockets may be higher. [[14.20]] Mr President, when you talk about the fact that health is not a business, that it is not possible to obtain private benefits at the expense of public health financed, think back to your own business when you wanted to export them abroad, taking advantage of the situation of doctors in distress. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-12-05-32	Congressman, do you accept the answer?
u2016-12-05-33	Mr President, I would wish to accept the Secretary of State's reply once, but that would only be possible if the following conditions were met. You'd come forward and say that Fidesz has terminated or is now going to terminate the gratuity money in a short time. If you were to say that the government has taken steps to stop stalling and cancel the gratuity money. Or he's saying that the government will deliver the gratuity money by 2020. You didn't choose this. You chose to have patients again, once again, put their hands in their pockets so that they would have a bad deal. But as long as we're in business, let's see which party's gonna like the super hospital in Buda. One of your ex-member's real estate problems will be this case, the Buda Super Hospital, super health will be known as a super-suction for people, where you guys are taking the shark off state funds, your representatives will be playing this real estate problem. I can't accept your answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-12-05-34	I ask the House whether it accepts the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The answer was adopted by 109 votes to 35, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedek and Ikotity István, representatives of the LMP, have submitted an interview to the Prime Minister: å How many small settlement schools will the Fidesz-KDNP government close? It's an address. The interpellation will be answered on behalf of the Prime Minister by the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources with responsibility and competence according to the subject. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-12-05-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, On the basis of the various news and government statements, it seems that the government is preparing for another serious school maintenance change. In particular, it is possible to close a number of small settlement schools. We would like the Secretary of State to clearly deny these rumors and fears. The other day we read that more than 2,000 schools have ceased in Hungary in the last ten years, while only 800 new educational institutions have been opened. The Hungarian Nemzet requested the data from the Education Office, which revealed that the Orbán government also closed hundreds of institutions. 2011 and 2015 were highlighted, 475 schools closed in these two years. Some of these only mean closure in statistics, of course, because they were transferred from KLIK's maintenance to the Ministry of National Economy. But according to our own collection, nearly 150 kindergartens, 100 primary schools, more than 40 high schools and secondary schools, 25 cultural centers, more than 30 art institutions, have closed down several libraries. The LMP fears that the closure wave will continue, the Fidesz-KDNP Cabinet will continue the school closure practice of the MSZP-SZDSZ governments, which is a deadly blow to villages, communities, especially in the case of small settlements. If the school is closed, there is nothing to keep the children in the settlement, a huge loss, a breakdown of the community, a loss of attractiveness and the ability to maintain the population. In addition, all educational professionals know that the added educational value in rural schools is no worse than in larger settlements. The reason for the worse school performance is the high number of children with multiple disadvantages. For them, it will be no different if they are transported and placed in a foreign environment, so it will not be easier for them to be crowded into larger classes. On the contrary. But why are we afraid that Fidesz will prepare further school closures? An application, I quote, was completed two weeks ago for the EFOP application titled The regional development of the school system. We are talking about a HUF 80 billion tender, so we are talking about a significant amount. The plan to set up regional school centres is also well known. It may be that the Fidesz-KDNP government appoints schools from larger settlements, which are developed to some extent so that they can accommodate students from smaller settlements. And they can close their schools. Don't you need schools in villages, communities? Is it really that they want to shut down the village and village schools and redirect the children to the school of larger settlements? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-12-05-36	Once again, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2016-12-05-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You asked me to do something weird. He asked me to disprove the false news they had invented, and then he himself denied his own false reputation and continued to read his interpellation. You have been quite let down by the colleague of Sallai R. Benedek, who gave up this interpellation, and then asked you to take it in your name and read it here, as you are knocking on the wrong door. Indeed, there was a time in Hungary when schools were closed, not a little, but a mass lock was made at 381 places of task provision, while 15 thousand teachers were laid off. Only it was during the MSZ-SZDS-steering period. When Fidesz-KDNP was given the opportunity to govern, it immediately tried to stabilise the situation of small settlement schools, which could be found in the state reserve and in the public administration of small settlement schools. We tried to reopen these schools. If I were to say only 2011, one of the years that you quoted, against what you said, I would say specifics if you were willing to listen to this. Well, then we've opened new schools, re-opened schools more precisely in Érrágypatak, Lipót, Siklósbágyfalun or Pecöl, and helped 24 other small settlement schools to avoid having to face the horror of closure. But a few years later, in 2013, we reopened new schools in Gáborja, Medgyesbodzás, Nyírderzsen, Mezőkomáromom or Nárai. These are all re-opening schools. You, too, I believe, refuted your own position when you said that according to your statistics, the schools that had escaped from maintaining the EMMI's background, the KLIK, had been abandoned by the NGM. There's no way I'd say it's an institution closure when the vocational schools were transferred to the Ministry of National Economy. So these allegations are rebutted by you as well. I think whoever wrote this text wasn't stinging at poetic exaggeration. However, we said that children in the small settlement should have the same opportunity, the same chance as those in larger settlements, and we saw that the municipalities had previously put themselves in debt of HUF 1200 billion because of the maintenance of these small settlement institutions, health, social and educational institutions. After a long debate, we said that the goal of national strategy is to maintain small settlement schools. Therefore, you could have been familiar with the adopted text of the Public Education Act, although not supported by LMP, according to which if there are eight children of lower school age and it is assumed that it will remain the same for the next three years, then in this municipality, if the municipality initiates this, the State must ensure that the classes, the school, are maintained and run. Thus, for all small settlement schools, guarantee elements have been incorporated into the new Public Education Act, which allows them to do so if eight families really want their children to go to school on the spot. We also believe that it is important and important for children to go to school in their own settlements, and that it is better to use the goals of education than to go elsewhere. That is completely independent of what you mentioned as a tender source in connection with the development of the school system in the region. It's a huge extra resource you said. After you have spoken many times in Parliament, I am pleased that you have said that in this area, for example, we will provide HUF 80 billion - I repeat, HUF 80 billion - additional resources to help the school centers to catch up with those who are lagging behind, as well as a framework for talent management for talented people. This is how we can create a national strategy-based, but XXI. Modern and modern Hungarian school system of the century. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-12-05-38	I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2016-12-05-39	Dear Secretary of State, In your statement, I don't know who collected those facts, but I would ask you with respect to inform him that there is an Education Office and that it operates a public education information system. These clearly show that the MSZP-SZDSZ governments closed 1350 educational education institutions from 2002 to 2010, while from 2010 to the end of 2015 your government closed virtually 650 institutions. [[14.30]] 650 institutions! I asked you, Mr. Secretary... [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Give me five that's closed.]] These are in the education office's information system, Mr. Secretary, please look into the facts. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Give me five that's closed.]] You've closed 650 institutions, the Fidesz-KDNP government. I'm asking you to look into the facts. As I indicated, it is feared that this HUF 80 billion development will be at the expense of small schools and municipal schools. You didn't answer that. I don't accept your answer.
u2016-12-05-40	I ask the House whether it accepts the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 106 votes to 38, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, György Balla, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the National Development Minister:, Why does it hurt Brussels that the Hungarian Government is on the side of families instead of multinationals? It's an address. Congressman's got the floor.
u2016-12-05-41	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, We all know that in the European Union, the Hungarian people were forced to pay the most for gas and electricity than their income. We also all know that all of this happened because the socialists first misplaced gas and electricity suppliers, and then increased the price of gas and electricity more than thirty times during their governance. In this way, the price of electricity could have doubled and the price of natural gas tripled. True, in the election campaign, there was talk of no gas price increases, and then the price of natural gas was tripled. In the meantime, energy companies that were abandoned and thus held in foreign hands could gain over a thousand billion forints of extra profit. Interestingly, Brussels was silent at that time. Brussels did not object to this proceeding. As a result of this reduction, gas, electricity, water, sewerage, district heating, bottled gas, chimney sweep, waste delivery costs were reduced in Hungary, in Hungarian: people benefited, and not foreign suppliers. Today, a pensioner's household can safely say that it has to pay about 120 thousand forints less each year for such services than before the reduction of the rent. And interestingly, Brussels has been attacking the reduction of the rent from the very first moment. We've been able to prevent every attack so far, but they never give up. However, I would like to make it clear that the reduction in overhead is not only an important domestic budgetary issue for people, but also a matter of national sovereignty. A country must be able to make a clear decision on its side, to be able to make a clear decision on how and how it intends to help people. Two and a half million Hungarian citizens have put faith in the reduction of the rent, and Brussels is again attacking Hungary and the Hungarian people. I would therefore respectfully ask the Secretary of State: what is the government up to? How do we intend to prevent another attack by Brussels on the reduction of the rent and on the Hungarian people? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-05-42	I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go.
u2016-12-05-43	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to point out in advance that the reduction of the rent is not a one-time task, it is a continuous government attitude. The government's response is a strong yes, and we have already protected and will continue to protect the progress made. The government has helped all families by deciding in 2013 to reduce the total cost of household rents everywhere and one of the highest costs in Europe. According to the data of the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, between January 2013 and December 31, 2015, retail customers saved HUF 580 billion on gas, electricity and district heating bills. If we count reductions in water, sewers, chimneys and waste, then this saving is over 640 billion. By 31 October 2015, households saved 865 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, This is an extremely significant amount. A multigenerational family can save up to 300 thousand forints a year, a family living in a house with natural gas, a retired couple can save 115 thousand forints, and a family with two children living in a condo can save 110 thousand forints a year. I would like to say in particular that there has also been a significant reduction in the amount of behind-the-counters accumulated over the years. The electricity backs over 30 days decreased from 29 billion to 17 billion in 2012 and from 45 billion to 23.5 billion in the case of gas. These figures show the social impact of the reduction in costs, but also that the results of this should be protected, as this process must continue, because there is still a gap to be worked out. As a typical figure: 140 thousand retail customers were turned off in 2012, and in 2016 only 96 thousand, if any, can be used. That is why we have work to do to protect the results of the reduction of the rent so far and to continue this process as a permanent government behaviour. We are and will take decisive action against the attacks on our public policy, and we will not give in to pressure from Brussels. Consumers continue to obtain energy at affordable prices, and we are also on the agenda, alongside the population, on the issue of industrial reduction. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-05-44	I give the floor to Congressman Balla in return.
u2016-12-05-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President, and thank you very much for your answer, Mr Secretary of State. Special thanks for having us with a sick person and sharing valuable thoughts with us. I fully agree with what the Secretary of State said: we need to protect the reduction of the rent, we need to protect the results of the reduction of the rent against Brussels as well. One of the solutions - please pay attention, fellow Members - lies before you. Next week we will be voting on a bill, which was born specifically for the purpose of taking the side of the Hungarian people against Brussels and protecting the results of the reduction of the rent. I wonder how the Hungarian left, Ferenc Gyurcsány and the socialists will vote next week, if they are willing to face Brussels for the first time in their lives and take the side of the Hungarian people. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-05-46	As I understand it, the Member has accepted Mr Secretary of State's reply, so we do not have to vote now. Gábor Bellozó, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice:. What does the Government do to protect our children from online violence? It's an address. The interpellation will be answered on behalf of the Prime Minister by the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources with responsibility and competence according to the subject. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-12-05-47	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In Hungary, one in three children may be affected by online harassment and other threats from the Internet, which parents underestimated. There are thousands of anonymous statements testifying to the threat, which led a country-going initiative to put a strong proposal on the table of decision-makers. [[14.40]] There are many more children affected by online harassment than parents or teachers would think. Surveys show that on average all children have been harassed while chatting, more than 40 percent of pornographic content have met. And it's quite frightening that 15 percent of children on the Internet have been sexually offered. According to a mountain survey, 21 percent of children have met a person they met online. So cyberbullying is an international phenomenon, to which the Hungarian response is very, very sloppy: meaningful steps are still waiting for themselves, as if the government did not feel the weight of the problem. Teachers should be given a key role in the protection of children, but there is no unjustified need for practical training in teacher training to provide teachers with tools to combat the growing impact of social media and Internet exploitation. In view of the lack of awareness of the government, it would be logical to put civil society in a position to protect our children. There was also an attempt to do this before, for example, the national program "The Internet Remembers." The Ministry of Public Administration and Justice's State Secretary for Social Relations has provided support for the processing of these experiences. As a result of the work, the organizers put a hundreds of pages program on the table, which was designed to extend the program. However, the supporting State Secretary was terminated, so the organizers could not work effectively, the number of lectures was reduced, the program was suspended. Dear Secretary of State, In the meantime, a strategy has been put in place, but the deadlines laid down in the strategy and in the government decision on implementation are freaky. Why don't you do something? Today, in the business sector, those dealing with the problem are looking for support for the continuation of their programme, but despite the fact that the protection of children would be a constitutional state task, the state has still not taken any meaningful steps. Mr. Secretary. My question is what they do to ensure that the teachers of the future are prepared to face the problem. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] If the government is serious about solving the problem, why give years to prepare, prepare? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2016-12-05-48	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-12-05-49	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As the problem is real and the risk to children is real, we have taken a lot of measures since 2010 to ensure that everyone is as aware of the reality of the problem as possible. For the child who has a smartphone in his hand, or who goes up to Facebook, goes on the Internet, is exposed to this danger, and as many people know how to protect children, how to ask them if this happened to them, and the children tell them if it happened to them, or how to prevent such and similar acts. Therefore, in the new Criminal Code, we have already created state-of-the-art facts for this purpose, and Act C of 2012 includes the fact of harassment, which can be achieved in the manner described by you, and that is precisely why we have created the possibility of making electronic data permanently inaccessible and, of course, in the Criminal Procedure Act, to render electronic data temporarily inaccessible. If this is the case that channels or individuals use their profiles to harass others or spam others with unsolicited, indecent content, then we should have the opportunity to stop doing this activity on the Internet. Both the procedural law and the substantive law now contain these sanctions, these measures, the power of the police and the court. It is also important that prevention programmes also appear in education. You said that there was also a complete strategy to protect children and young people. However, before the strategy was born, there was a free software that has been required for years to be made available to all Hungarian Internet service providers and that parents can download through their Internet access to make their own children's browsing safer and thus protect their children from content that can later cause trauma or even criminal activity by perpetrators on the other side. These programmes, these screening programmes, have been free of charge and have been mandatory for years and accessible to all Internet subscribers. These blacklists and whitelists are important, making screening safer, the possibility of effective technical action. This has not only occurred in previous years, but it is also, of course, included in the strategy. It is important to strengthen the free-to-air Hungarian filter software in the strategy, as well as to create a separate, independent website that presents the most important elements of safe Interneting for the child. The government will also launch a comprehensive information programme, helping to clarify the possibilities of dealing with the infringements and, of course, to prevent them. We are launching comprehensive and free training and training programmes on online harassment, especially for teachers, and in the National Basic Study Plan, which you call so often unconventional, these are also the most modern items, media awareness education and the preservation of children. The package of child-friendly justice also included the fact that now, if a person commits such an act to harm children, his moral certificate shows that he committed it to harm the child. If you commit a serious crime, so that you can be punished more than five years of age, it will never end; if you are less than five years of age, you will still have a limitation period until the child is 18 years of age, and you will start again from the age of 18 to file a complaint as an adult. Disabling an occupation is subject to specific strict rules when a person commits a criminal offence to harm a child, cannot be an employee of a public education institution or another institution [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] , where you come in direct contact with children. And I could tell you what special treatment we are trying to introduce for the benefit of injured children. So please accept my answer because I've been able to tell you about a number of measures. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-05-50	I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2016-12-05-51	The problem, Mr State Secretary, is that what you have said turns out that you have recognised the problem and prepared a strategy for it, but you cannot accept your answer because you are not taking any meaningful action. Undersecretary of State, the fact that you will put in the strategy that the training of teachers will have to be completed by 31 December 2017 with a deadline which will be incorporated into teacher training is unacceptable. It's unacceptable because it's a substitute act! Secretary of State, Art. XII. In the district there is a program in which teachers, teachers of the district are trained and prepared to recognize this problem and to take meaningful steps against it, to bring parents into the picture and to prepare the children. Since 2014, there has been an accredited programme in which these teachers can be prepared. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Instead of creating a new strategy, the state should finally take action to make it available throughout the country. Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience. That's why I can't accept your answer.
u2016-12-05-52	Congressman didn't accept the answer. Please vote in favour of this House. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 107 votes to 38, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Dóra Dúró, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: "Are they willing to create real opportunities instead of the dead end of community service? It's an address. It's for the congresswoman.
u2016-12-05-53	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, One of the primary tasks of the education system should be to create opportunities and ensure social mobility. On the other hand, in Hungary, the school system is also responsible for increasing differences, the poor are becoming poorer, the rich are getting richer. Of course, it is no wonder that Zoltán Balog, the minister responsible for this area, is not aware of the basics such as the phenomenon of functional illiterateism. At his hearing as ministers, where, as a result of a great Fidesz motion, we could ask our questions three whole minutes per Member about the whole education, culture and sport sector, he said that if anyone could read something, it would understand. Do you still think that's true? According to KSH data, more than a quarter of the 15-year-old boys, while the eighth of the girls are virtually functional illiterate. According to the Office, this is also related to early school leaving, the regional breakdown of which can be instructive for the Ministry, their proportion was highest in Northern Hungary, but the rate of break-out in South Transdanubia and North Great Plain is above 15 percent. [[14.50]] Your answer is clear: at 16 you can leave the school system and become a public worker. Except it's a dead end. This approach will not highlight these children from poverty, ignorance, functional illiteracy. This recognition that the education system is unable to deal with these children cannot guide them on the path of knowledge. This is unacceptable. According to Jobbik, there are families, situations in which boarding schools can provide meaningful help and progress, because in many cases, according to the report of teachers working in the area, there is no support medium in the family that is needed. Based on a positive example of institutions that operate well abroad and are voluntary in our country, this type of institution could be made a national network, since it is completely feasible both professionally and financially, without political will. On this basis, I ask the Secretary of State: are you willing to create real opportunities for children of poor families instead of a dead end to community service? Why do they think that there are no children whose chances would be increased if they were studying in boarding school? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-05-54	Once again, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2016-12-05-55	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, If you look at how much time Hungarian children spend in the Hungarian school system and how much the children of the most advanced countries spend in their own school system, you can see that this figure is about the same, for children between 5 and 39 years old, 17 years is what a child spends on average in the school system in Hungary and so much in other countries. If we look at the latest figures and the figures of previous years from the point of view of whether there are more people leaving the school without a degree in Hungary than the average of the most advanced countries - these are around 11-12 percent - then we can say that the Hungarian average was the same as the European Union and the average of the most developed countries. What you've been trying to suggest is that the 16-year-old introduction of a school obligation has taken away any chance, the possibility for these children to increase the number and proportion of uneducated school leavers, has not been proven since the last few years. What he said about the difference in the education of children in schools and in different parts of the country could have gone to a cortes' speech, namely the creation of the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Centre, which opens up the possibility that, in the face of the growing problems in 25 years, resulting from the different financial opportunities of the municipalities, a state reservation can help to create a better chance for children with a more difficult fate than the poorer municipalities. We believe that the problem that he has raised about the skills of students in their lower or upper classes is that, on the one hand, we have to start special programs, we don't have to put them in a dorm, and, on the other hand, we give them education and skill development before school, which reduces the differences from home in their first year. Therefore, if you look at how many people participate in pre-school education in Hungary, you can see that this is 94.5 percent, while the EU average is 93.2, so there are far more people in pre-school education than in other countries. Every international study and science workshop on catching up also acknowledges that the introduction of compulsory preschooling from the age of three gives you a good and preventative chance and opportunity to reduce the difference that can be up to a year and a half in the case of a child coming from a better family and a more difficult family from the age of three. It is also important: if you look at government measures in recent years, you will see that the integrated method we have introduced in Heyőkeresztúr has succeeded. We want to take this to other settlements, other schools, where there are many disadvantaged and multiple disadvantaged children. Your proposal smells a bit of a desk, it doesn't draw from practical life, while our examples, both compulsory kindergarten schooling from the age of three and the model of Heyökeresztúr represent an existing, functioning model that can be achieved in the regional school network that you and LMP criticized above, so that these best practices can help each child acquire the knowledge that they need in as many schools as possible. And if they get out of school, and we hope they get a degree, we can help them with scholarships. Nine thousand disadvantaged children will receive a Travel Scholarship, 900 university scholarships, three times the number of schools in six years, from 60 to 180, and we would like to bring them close to 300, and we would like to give students under the age of 25 a degree and a job by entering the Youth Guarantee System. Thus, public employment will certainly not be a perspective for a young person, but we trust that he can acquire marketable knowledge. We'll give you the support for that. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-05-56	I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the answer.
u2016-12-05-57	Dear Secretary of State, Comparing only the time spent in school in international comparison leads to false results. They have a very different family background, different financial circumstances for children and families living in Western Europe than those children I am talking about. The CLIK is not going to solve this problem, and your background institution has clearly described it in a study. They fell on the other side of the horse, it won't increase the odds, it won't reduce the differences. I continue to maintain, Mr Secretary of State, that there are situations where there will be insufficient opportunities for the measures that you have just listed. Some kids get a chance at boarding schools. And this proposal was not made behind a desk. As I said, there are such institutions currently operating voluntarily in Hungary, I also visited as far as I could and looked at foreign examples, and we recommend this on the basis of them. But if you don't think it will help anyone in Hungary, it's a clear speech. I don't accept the answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-05-58	I ask this House if it will accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 108 votes to 35 with one abstention. Dear Parliament, Péter Harrach and László Szászfalvi, representatives of KDNP, have submitted an interpellation to the National Development Minister:. Will the missing sections of EuroVelo 6 and Balaton's biking circle be realized? It's an address. Congressman László Szászfalvi has the floor.
u2016-12-05-59	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, From the outset, governments after 2010 have represented well and effectively the issue of environmentally sound, healthy cycling, reducing the burden of overcrowded roads in transport and development policy. In the EU financial period 2007-2013, by the end of 2015, a total of HUF 70 billion of EU funding was built on more than 1,500 kilometres of bicycle routes. They are reaching each other and are gaining an ever wider audience through awareness-raising campaigns to promote cycling. Hungary is also taking a leading part in the European Mobility Week. Compared to this high starting level, the government has entrusted the coordination and further acceleration of bicycle development to our fellow Member Márius Révész, who can enforce the interests of the rounders, even in matters beyond the scope of the development portfolio. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The list of marked bicycle road constructions and upgrades is constantly being expanded. The news is about mobilising funding for network expansion and service development by HUF 50 to 100 billion by 2020. Rajka-Budapest connection, EuroVelo 6, is the most important part of the cycling path along the Danube in Hungary. It is planned to build the road link, which has unique opportunities from a tourist point of view, up to Lake Balaton, as it is renewed, to add the biking circle around the Hungarian sea, which has become old in many places. Of course, these investments have been a priority for some time, but the recent government decision on the financing of the development of cycling routes lacks several stages. The list does not include Zamárdi-Balatonlelle, Tihany-Balatonkenese, Balatonakarattya-Siófok, Budapest-Szentendre, Budapest-Dunakeszi, Budapest-Etyek and Budapest-Százhalombatta-Erd sections. [[15.00]] Dear Secretary of State, On the basis of the above, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State why the missing sections have been excluded from the Government decision. Will the missing sections of EuroVelo6 and the Balaton cycle be realized? I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-12-05-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, State Secretary László Tasó responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-12-05-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, In Hungary, cycling plays an increasing role in transport and tourism, and more and more people choose the healthier and cheaper, environmentally friendly mode of transport. Over the past two and a half years, the Ministry of National Development has made cycling popular in several programmes in Hungary, our road safety programs have helped to learn about safe cycling from childhood, and the further expansion of its use will be enhanced by network development. From 2007 to 13, some 1,100 km of cycling paths were built in Hungary, 172 km of domestic resources and 500 km of cross-border programmes. In the second half of 2015, we were able to spend another HUF 11.5 billion on the construction of some 80 kilometres of bicycle roads, which could be welcomed by many and several settlements. Our programme, with a bike over seven borders, has also been a huge success in Hungarian territory across the border. I think that this year should definitely continue with all the other programmes that have already been started. The next etaph of our road safety package is also prepared for the next year, which will certainly help us realise our ideas on this. We will have about HUF 67 billion in development in the coming years, with which tourist routes will develop in Hungary. Transport safety will be improved, pollution of the environment will be reduced, and we believe that many businesses will be able to build on these networked bicycle roads. In answer to your question, however, I must point out that they were not included in that decision because, with the help of these two programmes, which are an economic development and innovation programme and a competitive Central Hungary operational programme, we have already added funds. As you know and mentioned, Budapest-Szentendre, Budapest-Dunakeszi, Budapest-Budapest-Százhalombatta, Szentendre-Dömös I., and the Budapest-Etyek sections will be implemented from the VEKOP source. The connection between Zamárdi-Balatonlelle, Tihany-Balatonkenese, Balatonakarattya-Siófok and Balaton-Kis-Balaton will be made from GINOP, where HUF 3.6 billion is available. I very much hope that the development of the bicycle road network will be decisive in the coming years as well. We will also have the opportunity to do so in Eastern Hungary, because, as we have heard, all the programmes approved by the government will be implemented in the next period. I am very confident that this will help to further promote cycling, and more healthy, decent Hungarian people will be able to ride bikes on ever more interconnected cycling paths. I thank you with all due respect for your question, and may I say hello to our guests from Nyíradony, Mr President, who have just come to see the Parliament for the first time today. Thank you for your attention, thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-12-05-62	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-12-05-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reassuring reply. Of course I accept that. In my view, one of the most important directions of the forthcoming period in the transport strategy will be the development of the bicycle road network. An important strategic direction for tourism, an important strategic direction for economic development, and, of course, not least, this direction is important for the economy and healthy lifestyle. I ask the Secretary of State to continue to provide as much resources as possible. We know that there will also be funding opportunities from the TOP, as well as the development of cycling routes within cross-border programmes. I hope that the Hungarian bicycle path network will be able to expand even further in the coming period. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-12-05-64	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Allow me to welcome the members and the management of the delegation of young farmers in Heves County who have taken over the gallery. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Péter Kónya, an independent representative, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. How and when do you intend to disarm the deadly virus bombs that tick in Hungary? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2016-12-05-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As a result of the warming climate, pathogens that have been present in Hungary have also appeared as a result of the recovery of tourism in various regions of the world, as well as of the diseases introduced by immigrants who have invaded Europe, which have so far been unknown in Hungary, or have died decades, centuries ago due to effective protection. In Hungary, the West Nile fever spread by mosquitoes was almost unknown, but since 2003, these diseases have been regularly recorded every year, and their number is increasing year after year. This is confirmed not only by data from human medicine, but also by veterinary statistics. The bite of infectious mosquitoes mainly causes encephalitis in horses and humans. Few people now know that malaria was a feared mosquito-borne disease among the inhabitants of the swampy areas and wet meadows in Hungary at some point. In 1927 when the National Institute of Public Health was founded, its experts managed to eradicate malaria mosquitoes throughout the country with a radical and harsh approach to today's eyes. Gasoline and gas oil were watered to the surface of natural waters where insects lived, so mosquito larvae drowned. Before this intervention, however, there were 70,000 new malaria infections recorded in Hungary in the course of a year, but 20 years later, about the early 40s, this disease disappeared completely from Hungary. However, this optimal condition cannot be considered definitive. Malaria can reappear at any time and take its victims again. In Hungary, there are six species of mosquitoes that are able to carry the pathogen of malaria. Just enough to spread a new malaria epidemic in our country, such a mosquito can bite an immigrant or a fellow countryman who has returned from his vacation, who have already caught the disease. György Berencsi, Professor of International Studies on Mosquito Spreading Diseases, said already in 2013, that malaria bombs are ticking louder and louder in Hungary. Yet experts do nothing about it. I'm gonna cut short because I think I'm gonna run out of time. The common characteristic of the pathogens belonging to the highest risk group is the Hungarian mortality rate, the lack of protection or therapeutic tools, the spread of light humans to humans. This includes viruses such as dreaded smallpox, Ebola or Crimean Congo bleeding fever. It is important to point out that the Crimean-Congo haemorrhagic fever virus is present in our southern neighbours, the spread boundary of the tick spreading it has shifted further and further north, so the procession of the disease is expected not only in Hungary, but also in the surrounding countries. In 2013, the Crimean-Congo haemorrhagic fever virus was clearly detected in the ticks of hedgehogs living on Margaret Island. There were hedgehogs in which nearly 200 ticks were found that were infected. In this connection, I would like to ask what the government has done to defuse the deadly virus bombs that are still ticking in our country, especially in order to avoid the outbreak of the Crimean-Congo virus that threatens the entire population of Hungary, which is already present on Margaret Island. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President.
u2016-12-05-66	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-12-05-67	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I am pleased that it has now become clear to the opposition that immigration has many risks, one of which is the epidemiological risk. There may be diseases in Europe that have not been the case in the past, but without knowledge of the previous diseases of mass immigration and uncontrollable masses, they may reappear, or diseases that have already spread in Europe, which have not appeared for decades or centuries, in any case for generations, may reappear and pose a threat to themselves. This is why immigration itself is, of course, subject to an epidemiological risk. What is new in this, I think, is that no one has, at most what is new, that more and more people from the opposition are beginning to see this now. [[15.10]] In Hungary, we operate a very high-level monitoring system to detect any similar infection. The center of this is the National Epidemiology Center. There are two special laboratories in the OEK for this, one the National Reference Laboratory and the other the National Safety Laboratory. In the event that an exotic, difficult to identify, special illness is detected in anyone or anywhere, patients can be placed in two separate isolated wards of St. Stephen's and St. Laszlo's Hospital in the capital, so that everyone can feel safe in Hungary as well, since the health care system is prepared to identify and treat these diseases if such exotic diseases occur. In Central Europe, the National Security Laboratory in OEK is also unique in terms of its highest security classification in Central European countries. It belongs to category BSL-4, which means that they can detect the most dangerous pathogens within four hours, and obviously, if someone is infected with it, they can also receive treatment in the aforementioned isolated medium, the Unified St. Stephen and St. Laszlo Hospital, and they will not infect others. In the case of the Margitsziget case you mentioned, it was only a species of ticks that could spread this special hemorrhagic fever, but no infected ticks were found in Hungary, so fortunately we do not have to face it. [[Peter Konya shakes his head.]] However, when we assess the risk of immigration itself, the inflow of millions of people, we also need to assess these health risks, not only that they may be in need of care for an accident or something else, and this is obviously a risk for European taxpayers, but also that they have not been involved in screening themselves, a fraction of whom can be said to have participated in mandatory screening and went back for documents, even though it would have been in their own interest to know that they have had a disease, or that during the journey, they have obviously had numerous physical ordeals, whether they have collected something that is dangerous to them, and, of course, that is dangerous to police officers, doctors, and people who live in their environment. If Europeans do so, if they follow such epidemiological preventive measures, it would be equally important for immigrants to be partners in this. When there was a great rush in Hungary a year ago, we could see that they were not partners in this, regardless, although this is an increased risk in all European countries, the Hungarian health organisation system prepared both from vaccine, supply capacity and special equipment for special laboratories, in case some special virus would appear in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-05-68	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2016-12-05-69	Mr. Secretary of State, you are mistaken, I told you about the mosquito larvae, that you can spread them, but in the ticks, in 2013, they showed the Crimean-Congo virus, and they found several ticks that were infected. It's only because of your bad luck that it hasn't spread to humans yet. I would like to tell you here that if a tick on Margaret Island ever goes into a person who was infected, there will be an unstoppable epidemic in Hungary, because this virus, this pathogen, is spreading through the air. A man like that gets on tram 6 and infects the whole country. And they won't be able to stop that. This virus, Mr. Secretary of State, shows a mortality rate of over 50 percent, which is the same as that of the ebola. You will do nothing to stop this, and I have some bad news for you: from the spread of such an epidemic, Viktor Orbán, who has recently entered Parliament in a bulletproof vest, neither the TEK nor the bulletproof vest will be able to protect him from catching this epidemic. So I would also ask my fellow Members to think of their loved ones and not to accept the Secretary of State's reply. Thank you very much.
u2016-12-05-70	Thank you. Dear Parliament, From what I understand, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 103 votes in favour, 18 against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It's 3:14 p.m., we're at the end of the interpellations. We're going to talk about immediate questions. I would like to ask my fellow Members who leave the Chamber for an urgent public task, to do so quietly and quietly. Thank you for your understanding. Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. Zoltán Gőgös, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:, Without a word, Prime Minister, does the Mayor of Fidesz Szolnok tolerate the abuse of old ladies acting for their community in a subparic style? You're gonna try to save the unsavory by lying all over the place? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister Sándor Fazekas to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he is asking the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2016-12-05-71	Thank you, Mr. President. We'll talk about other things with Minister, so I'll wait for Prime Minister.
u2016-12-05-72	Thank you. I would like to inform the Member that the Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister Sándor Fazekas to respond to an urgent public task. [[Defiance in the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] I'll ask Congresswoman... [[It's constant noise.]] My fellow Members, please be patient and listen to me. So I will ask the congresswoman whether she accepts the person who is responding, or whether she is asking the Prime Minister for the answer personally.
u2016-12-05-73	Since Prime Minister is so serious about the defence that he would otherwise like the Minister of Agriculture to answer the question, I would like to take this personally to the Prime Minister, so I will wait for him.
u2016-12-05-74	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Tamás Harangozó, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister without a wallet for national politics:, Are you willing to take political responsibility and publicly apologize for recommending Zsolt Bayer for a state medal, who believes that if a Gypsy child is run over, he should step on the gas, who believes that Jewish journalists in Pest are the Jews, whose mere existence justifies anti-Semitism, and who thinks that the Pope is either a demented old man or a rascal? It's an address. Congressman Tamás Bellozó has the floor.
u2016-12-05-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Perhaps we should stop commenting, but for those who may not know what this is about: President János Áder donated the Knight Cross of the Hungarian Order to Zsolt Bayer on 20 August to present Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. [[Happy István: Very good! György Balla applauds.]] In view of the multitude of statements that divide Zsolt Bayer's society, which are strongly opposed to Christian spirit and morals, the Hungarian public would have expected a more detailed explanation, so I tried to find out with a written question. After a number of questions expressed in insulting tone, which were left unwarrantedly unanswered, it was finally a response to a request for data in the public interest that it was not Antal Rogán and not János Lázár, but you who made this scandalous proposal. It's quite interesting, given the insufferable manifestations Zsolt Bayer has made over the past few years. I will also quote one or two more times: so in the event of the Gypsy children being run over, let's step into the gas; about the Jews of Pest, he says that they are the Jews who justify anti-Semitism with their existence, and that he has made no less public publicity of Pope Francis than that of the pope or a demented old man who is completely unfit to fill the papal position, or a villain. In the light of the above, I would like to ask you whether, in your opinion, this is indeed an exemplary journalistic activity in the rude tone, and you believe that this would be an increase in universal human values, which would make it worthy of such a medal. And I ask you, because not only is he the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government, but also the President of the Christian Democratic People's Party: are you, as president of the Christian Democratic People's Party, proposing a man who writes such things publicly about the Catholic Pope? I look forward to your reply, Deputy Prime Minister.
u2016-12-05-76	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén. Here you go. [[15.20]]
u2016-12-05-77	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Congressman! Dear House, Jolán Nagyné Pintér, Deputy President of the Foundation for the Recording of the Remembrance of the Destroyed in the Gulágs, made the following announcement, and made a proposal for emotional identification with prisoners in the prisons of the Gulág, for a credible presentation of the life of Transylvanian Hungarians. I've approved and signed this text at point-by-point. In other respects, Zsolt Bayer apologized for his unfortunate sentences written out of anger. [[Zoltán Grimlock: I didn't read this anywhere.]] Personally, Zsolt Bayer was sitting next to me at the school bench as a child. [[Moore from the ranks of the MSZP. Zoltán Grimlock: That's what I mean! Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: That explains everything!]] He'll stand next to me on my deathbed. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I will never deny Zsolt Bayer. [[Moore from the ranks of the MSZP.]] For you, the Socialist Party, I wish there were at least a few people, a publicist in your moonyard who approach Zsolt Bayer in Hungarian and talent. [[Intercoms from Fidesz: That's right! That's right. An uproar in the ranks of the MSZP. Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Oh, my God! Applause in the pro-government benches. Zoltán Grimlock: You will applaud this bullshit! Really? Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: Amazing!]]
u2016-12-05-78	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. [[Noise.]] Colleagues, let's listen to each other, I think it's the right thing to do. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-12-05-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I really hope, really hope that I don't have to be ashamed once. [[György Balla: We need it now!]] that such a text is even a leading politician who is rapporteur [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I have to sit next to him at any time, as you have said here in an outrageous manner. Only one person who hates, anti-Semitic, anti-Gypsy, or who defies the Catholic Pope cannot be in the name of this nation. [[Noise. Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: That's right! That's right!]] [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I have to sit next to him at any time, as you have said here in an outrageous manner. Only one person who hates, anti-Semitic, anti-Gypsy, or who defies the Catholic Pope cannot be in the name of this nation (Noise. - Intercoms from the ranks of the MSZP: That's right! That's right! Put him on a joint medal, even if he's your buddy! (Noise. - The president's ringing. ) Shame on you. (Noise. - The president's ringing. Do you know the difference between you and Zsolt Bayer? That apparently Zsolt Bayer apologized. I didn't hear it. Let's say he didn't lie this time. Did you then apologize for putting him up for the Hungarian nation's joint medal? [[Happy István: Have you apologized to Hungarians across the border?]] Deputy Prime Minister, if you don't do this now for the next minute, you're a disgrace to this country. [[An uproar in the pro-government ranks.]] Shame on this country and shame on it [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] the Christian democracy as it is. Thank you very much.
u2016-12-05-80	Dear Parliament, In return, I give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén. Here you go, Deputy Prime Minister.
u2016-12-05-81	In my proposal, there are two things: gulags and Hungarians across the border. It's the 60th anniversary of the gulag. You - as a successor party - should be more moderate in this matter and more empathy towards them [[Moore from the ranks of the MSZP. Dr. István Józsa: Will you send me away?]] Those who came to the gulag because of your predecessor's system of ideas. On the other hand, it is December 5, 2016, the day of your party's treason and treason. [[Moore from the ranks of the MSZP. Zoltán Grimlock: Don't get me wrong. György Balla: Shame on you!]] Zsolt Bayer the Hungarians [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] He stood up for her, so I suggested a medal. [[Interviews from the ranks of Fidesz: Shame on yourselves!]] Today, you must be most silent and ashamed of your treason. [[Intercoms from Fidesz: That's right! That's right. Moore from the ranks of the MSZP. A big round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-12-05-82	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. [[While Dr. Zsolt Semjén leaves the meeting room, he warns towards the benches of Fidesz. Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: What are you showing? Wave your hands off me. Sit on the white horse. Ride the white horse. Get on the horse! Get on the horse! Get on the horse! Get on the horse! Dr. Peter Hoppál: Shame on you! Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: You should be ashamed of yourselves! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Parliament, Martin Gyöngyösi... [[Noise.]] Fellow Members, we will continue our work. Márton Gyöngyösi, a representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: - Is the growth of family and friendly wealth more important than the security of the nation? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr Sándor Fazekas Minister for Agriculture to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he is asking the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2016-12-05-83	Thank you, Mr. President. Since my question is directly related to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's activities as Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's head of government and is directly related to his circle of friends and family, I would like to wait for the Prime Minister's personal response. Thank you.
u2016-12-05-84	Congressman, I would like to inform you that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, János Volner, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: Why doesn't the government do everything to increase the wages of the working Hungarian people? It's an address. Prime Minister Sándor Fazekas appointed Minister for Agriculture to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member, Mr Group leader, whether he will accept the person of the responding party or ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2016-12-05-85	I'll wait for Prime Minister. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-12-05-86	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. I would like to inform you that the Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, [[Noise.]] My fellow Members, if I may, the Parliament will continue its work. Please take this into account. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How long will the Calvary of the Credit Damaged continue? It's an address. Prime Minister Sándor Fazekas appointed Minister for Agriculture to respond to an urgent public task. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks. Incoming from Jobbik's ranks: The Polyhistor!]] I would like to ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he is asking the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2016-12-05-87	I'll take it. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks:]]
u2016-12-05-88	Congressman, you have the floor.
u2016-12-05-89	Mr President, Dear House, It is also an honor for me and for those who have suffered foreign exchange credit that the expert in agriculture will answer my questions about the various details of the Calvary of authentic people, so let's do it. The government is very often proud of the measurable decline in the population's foreign currency debt, as you have taken a shameful forinting law and measure, according to which, not at the rate of the day of admission, but at the later, much higher market rate, the so-called loans, which have thus been used by you to cut the Hungarian population's budget by hundreds of billions, have indeed been credited to the bank accounts of the banks concerned. At the moment, although debt may not be measured in foreign currency, these families are almost equally indebted in forints, there are over 140,000 people who have over 90 days of debt or are unable to deliver in time, and we also see that you have left the evictions in an amazing way. We are talking literally tens of thousands of people at risk, and we also see that auctions are often not completed because there are simply not enough buyers on the market, but the government would allow these people to be thrown out of their homes. So the question is, as long as a country could have been decided to redeem these so-called loans at the rate of admission, why is this government so timid. Is it true you made a pact with the banking system? Minister, have you made such a commitment to the banks that you will not charge them any additional costs in order to settle the situation of the credit-damaged people, and where further so that someone will finally return the stolen money to the Hungarian people? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-05-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Sándor Fazekas. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-12-05-91	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Speaker, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to reassure Mr President that all members of the Government are committed to helping foreign exchange credentials. We are trying to do our best to find the best possible solution within the framework of the legal order, taking into account the Curia and other court judgments. It is certainly not unknown to this House that the government has taken a number of measures since 2010 to protect borrowers. The decision of the Curia in June 2014 provided legal opportunity to address the problem in a comprehensive manner. The measures for 2014-2015 provided a definitive solution to the problem of foreign exchange lending. As a result, retail foreign exchange loans will be effectively issued by 2016. The process has been successfully completed and households' exposure to exchange rate risks has ceased. On the basis of the laws adopted in 2014 on the basis of the Curia Decision, banks had to account for the reimbursement of overpayments due to unfair exchange rate and unilateral contractual adjustments to their clients in March-April 2015. About 2 million current and former debtors received a settlement letter from their creditors. As a result, debtors have reduced their outstanding capital debt and, on average, their monthly repayment obligation has decreased by 20-25 percent. The clearing obligation also applied to consumer loans. [[15.30]] The obligation to repay the customers was further reduced by the need to recover from 1 February 2015 the fair interest rates for all credit contracts covered by the settlement, which were typically the same as those applied at the time of the conclusion of the contract. Therefore, there is no specific agreement, these are the statutory requirements that banks must comply with. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-05-92	Thank you for the Minister's reply. In return, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát. Here you go.
u2016-12-05-93	Minister, all I ask is that you honor me with reading not your pre-written paper, but your real, own thoughts on this matter, supported by facts. You say you're committed to this government's desire to settle. What kind of directing? There are still a few hundred places in the National Asset Manager for a few hundred Hungarian families, while a quota of more than 30,000 will be filled, and you have not allocated another budget to help families in difficulty. They made a pact, the Minister of National Economy spoke about it, the Banking Association talked about it, and they made a deal with them that they would not bear the banks concerned for the benefit of the population, but we must say that they could have used the unmerciless surplus accumulated at the Hungarian National Bank for this purpose. Minister, I want your personal opinion, and I ask you to answer this in one sentence: do you think it is fair that if someone took on their so-called loan at 156 forints, they should settle their position at a higher exchange rate of almost 100 forints? Is that fair or not? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-05-94	Thank you, Congressman. You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-12-05-95	Honourable Congressman, I am convinced that this is a serious issue in which words, numbers, government decisions and laws have their own significance. The Fidesz-KDNP government was the only one that found a solution to this inherited problem, and you were eager to attack it and still attack that settlement. [[Zoltán Haughty: Because it's not a solution, that's why! Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] which freed hundreds of thousands of people, hundreds of thousands of families [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] in such a very difficult and critical transaction (intercoms from Jobbik's ranks). , such as the issue and liquidation of foreign currency loans. You have always opposed these measures. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. István Gábor Bellozó intervenes. Intercom from Jobbik: Yes or no?]] and I see that they are still trying to capitalise on this subject. That's my opinion. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-05-96	Thank you very much for the Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. Erzsébet Schmuck, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "When does the government recognize that the direction II is wrong?" It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr Sándor Fazekas Minister for Agriculture to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the congresswoman whether she accepts the person of the response or asks the Prime Minister for the answer in person.
u2016-12-05-97	Thank you very much. With all due respect, I'll wait for the Prime Minister.
u2016-12-05-98	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to inform you that the Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What is the explanation? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister Sándor Fazekas to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding or ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally. [[Dr. István Józsa intervenes.]]
u2016-12-05-99	Thank you, I think the Prime Minister will know the answer to that. Thank you very much.
u2016-12-05-100	Congressman, I must inform you that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:. When does the government admit that the single-key tax system is tearing society apart? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member, Madam Group leader, whether you will accept the person of the response or ask the Minister for the answer personally.
u2016-12-05-101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In its November analysis, the OECD examined how income differences in each country varied between 2007 and 2014. It was found that the inequality of income distribution increased in the seven years examined, and Hungary is one of the countries where income differences increased. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's not true!]] However, the OECD found something else about Hungary: income differences in Hungary have increased while the income of low earners has increased. How was that possible? Well, with only gross wages rising, the government taxing the low wages and giving the money to the rich. As a result of the single-key personal income tax, 60 percent of employees have increased their taxes, and the top 10 percent have left 500 billion a year in their pockets, and the minimum wage has been taxed. This is how, although the minimum wage increased by 20 percent in 2011, people felt nothing of it, and even the net wages of the average wage or those earning under it even decreased if companies did not implement the expected wage increase. In addition to the unfair tax system, the government has also abolished the social protection system, such as reducing unemployment benefits, which has also affected low incomes. The OECD also looked at the change in net income and concluded that between 2010 and 14 Hungary had the greatest reduction in the role of the State in reducing income differences. This is supported by what the LMP has been saying for years: the government's economic and social policies have made the poor poorer and the richer richer richer. I ask the Secretary of State: when will you finally admit that the one-key tax has failed, and that is why society has been torn apart and that is preventing wage increases? Just don't say, Mr. Secretary, that the LMP wants to raise taxes. Thank you. [[It's grumpy.]]
u2016-12-05-102	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-12-05-103	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and Gentlemen, I think you're wrong when you consider the government's tax policy to be wrong. One of the issues is that the OECD also said that the tax burden on GDP fell from 42% to around 38 per cent below the government, and the OECD also stated that Hungary is doing very well in the fight against the black economy. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Very!]] As the rate of afar is reduced by about 5 percent. Otherwise, if a country achieves the introduction of a single-key personal income tax system, I think it is a huge asset and a huge achievement, as five countries in the European Union do: Bulgaria, Estonia, Lithuania, Latvia and Romania [[Dr. István Józsa: The most advanced!]] There are also one-key personal income taxes in these countries, some of which are lower in countries, such as Bulgaria with only 10 percent of personal income tax. If you were right, it would not be true that people's real income has doubled over the past six years compared to GDP, income has increased more than economic growth has achieved; nor would it be true that consumption is increasing year after year, people can spend more. And it would not be true that low incomes, especially those using family tax incentives - because before that, when the minimum wage was not taxed, hundreds of thousands of families could not make use of it now - have significantly increased real income and thus the family's budget has increased significantly, thereby making a significant contribution to raising children through this new single-key personal income tax system introduced by Fidesz. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-05-104	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return. Here you go.
u2016-12-05-105	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, perhaps you know that today about 2 million taxpayers live below the minimum living standards in Hungary. I'd like to know how many months of 88,000 forints a month you could make a living. I don't know if you know, Mr. Secretary, how much in a normal apartment is in rent. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Less than six years!]] How much to pay for food, and especially for older people, how much the drug costs. Yesterday morning on the radio, I heard a pensioner complaining about a guy who has very little pension, who pays HUF 38,000 a month for medicine. Can you imagine how that's possible? You say that single-key personal income tax is the solution. This is a joke! I offer members of the government who do not understand the difference between single-key and multi-key personal income tax, that we are happy to give you training on this, what the implications of multi-key personal income tax are [[Happy István: Tax raise! Csaba Dömötör: Tax increase! Happy István: Tax raise, sensible! Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes. Interviews from the lines of the MSZP.]] And what is a one-key personal income tax?
u2016-12-05-106	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-12-05-107	Thank you very much. Mr President, As far as pensioners are concerned, honourable Member, Fidesz has a commitment that the real value of pensions does not decrease - unlike in the previous governments. [[Dr. István Józsa: When Not?]] Fidesz has achieved much more in terms of pensions, such as a 1.6 percent increase in the next year by the government [[Dr. István Józsa: Well, it's a shame!]] which is significantly above inflation. [[Dr. István Józsa: That is not true either!]] [[15.40]] As regards the increase in the minimum wage and the labour wage, it will certainly follow the press if the government does not pay any attention to what the government says, that the government has concluded a six-year wage agreement with employers and employees, so the minimum wage will increase by 15 percent next year and the minimum wage by 25 percent, and in 2018 it will increase by 8 percent and 12 percent respectively. We are increasing wages and incomes, but with you, who want to increase the level of personal income tax and thus reduce income. The LMP has the wrong path, not the Fides. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties. Interjection from the same place: That's right!]]
u2016-12-05-108	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, János Pócs, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office an immediate question:. Who is Islam's last hope? It's an address. [[Grumble from the benches of Jobbik, interrupting from the same place: But insanity from the benches of the MSZP.]] The Prime Minister has appointed Mr Csaba Dömötör Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[János Pócs nodds.]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-12-05-109	Thank you, Mr. President. One of the rural mayors representing Jobbik's party colours, who is also Vice-President of the Party, recently adopted a decree with his body of representatives prohibiting the construction of mosques and the wearing of burka in the settlement. The case caused an embarrassing declaration vacuum at Jobbik. The few good-looking fellow Members who spoke about the fact that the decision was unfortunate enough or that there was no consultation or that the majority was rather silent. Instead, the party discipline You're the one who said the silent thoughts. As he said, I have a hat on the exemplary initiative that is an important legal tool for protecting our country. [[Constant interruptions from Jobbik's benches.]] Knowing the party's traditions, it is not difficult to imagine that many people in Jobbik have the same opinion. Gábor Vona wanted to put an end to the matter with the following statement: irresponsible and unnecessary regulation that stigmatize Muslims. At the same time, the essential part of the story begins now. Let's sum up the facts. Jobbik, first with a presidential leadership, did not contribute to the amendment of the Fundamental Law. And a few weeks later, their leader acted as the last hope of Islam. Obviously, it is not the right solution, because the right solution would have been to amend the Fundamental Law, while Jobbik feels that something needs to be done. Instinctively, it's always a radical solution. Gábor Vona was desperately acting as the savior of Islam. I ask the Secretary of State: is the decree of the local government in the Digesthal, which severely restricts freedom of religion, in accordance with the Fundamental Law? Is it possible to treat the failure to amend the Fundamental Law at municipal level? I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties. Tamás Sneider: Was it a compliment or an attack?]]
u2016-12-05-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-12-05-111	Honourable Congressman, Indeed, he was asking interesting questions in his speech. The point is that one of Jobbik's Vice-Presidents passed an anti-Muslim decree in Asotthalom, while the party president pretends to distance himself, he says that this is an unnecessary regulation that stigmatizes Muslims. [[Constant interruptions from Jobbik's benches.]] In this sense, he remained faithful to his earlier sentences that Islam was mankind's last hope. [[Adam Mirkóczki: What did Orbán say?]] We don't know if the party's president and vice president have arranged this in advance, or if it's just spontaneous chaos, but the sure thing is, [[Interviews from Jobbik's benches: Ask them! Ask him. Don't answer that.]] This is not the only example of Jobbik's double speech. One day, the party does not vote for women to retire after 40 years, and then the next day demands that they apply for 40. [[Moore from Jobbik's benches.]] One day, an EU flag will be burned, and the next day, with a binding attitude, they will support EU immigration policy. One day, they want to get along with the United States, the next, they call the president-elect an obnoxious half-crazy-- those are your words. They promise order, but they keep in touch with organizations that are then linked to police murder. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Well done!]] Everyone can see what it's like to have a party president marry a party's soul - it's not good to watch. Honourable Congressman, About the dug-in case. By the way, I'm genuinely interested in why the MSZP doesn't speak on this matter. [[Delightfulness and sporadic applause from the benches of Jobbik. István Tukacs standing up and pointing out himself: What?]] which, in the past, initiated a petition for every small matter, every tiny letter shaker. [[Dr. István Józsa: You are fascists! Ádám Mirkóczki: The LMP doesn't speak either!]] He started a procession, ran to Brussels, and he did cry out fascism. Why don't you speak in the same bloody style as Congressman Bell in the Digging Valley case? [[Interview from the benches of MSZP: What is wrong with you? Ádám Mirkóczki: And the independent were silent!]] I think that it is ultimately the responsibility of the competent authorities and the Constitutional Court. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] to decide whether or not the decrees of Diggedhal stand the test of legality, but until these decisions are made, these decrees are the rightful double [[The president's ringing again.]] The gross symbols of speech remain. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties. Lajos Korózs applauded: Lajos Korózs applauds! Dr. István Józsa: Tell him, Lali! Intruder from Jobbik: Guard!]]
u2016-12-05-112	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. [[It's constant noise.]] Dear Members of the MSZP. There is an opportunity to express their views, obviously within the parliamentary framework. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-12-05-113	Ladies and gentlemen, This story also proves that Gábor Vona is trying to draw attention to the obvious tensions within his party. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Did you just write it down? Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Is the answer also written?]] Thus, last week, he spoke harshly and slandered the Prime Minister. His charges are quite repulsive, since serious questions should be clarified within his own party. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: We must preserve our seriousness!]] For example, the EU Anti-Fraud Office has launched an investigation into Béla Kovács, MEP Jobbik [[Grumble, sporadic applause and interruptions from Jobbik's benches, among other things: Intruder from the benches of the MSZP: Finally!]] internship for fictitious employment. Earlier it turned out that part of the party's money landed around Jobbik's friends through various dubious orders. Ladies and gentlemen, Jobbik has given up its former role as a constructive opposition. In his behavior and communication he is practically sinking to the level of the left and Ferenc Gyurcsány. Is it possible to accept from such a party, which is losing its credibility more and more, that they were serious about amending the Fundamental Law when they presented their latest proposal on this matter? Thank you, Mr. President. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: How did the congressman know what the Secretary of State would say? Interrogation by István Tuåkacs.]]
u2016-12-05-114	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2016-12-05-115	Indeed, the line could continue, but you are right that one of the worst symbols of the rightful double speech is the amendment of the Fundamental Law. It is about the amendment that would provide a real guarantee against the quotas in Brussels. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Hard, that's right!]] The story began with Jobbik's first support for this. The party president said that it was a traitor, that he could be considered a traitor who didn't vote for him. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Which one of you didn't vote for?]] It'll be a few weeks before they change course, 180 degrees. No Amendment to the Fundamental Law [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: His own faction...]] And they're gonna start blackmailing people with no standards. [[Adam Mirkóczki: You did not vote! Tamás Sneider: Really!]] I'd like to say here that more than 3 million people can't be blackmailed. It also shows that Jobbik is not a national party today [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Seychelles...]] It's more like it. [[Adam Mirkóczki: You are the national party!]] a couple of sunflowers that can go anywhere they can hope for a little profit. [[Ádám Mirkóczki: If you are the national, then we are not...]] Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-12-05-116	Thank you for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, István Tukacs, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:, Scandal cases in health. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2016-12-05-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The Secretary of State has just asked why the MSZP does not manifest itself in their discussions on Jobbik. Because, Mr. Secretary, we are concerned about more important things. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: It hasn't always been like this!]] We're about to say that the dead birds from the macoon hospital are dropping out of an O.R. because the new O.R. is unfit for work. Let's just say that a woman with breast cancer is dismissed with an incomprehensible finding; she doesn't go back to control because she doesn't know that she has to do it and she dies. Let's just say that having a family commute between hospitals and their children, they don't get accepted anywhere, and the kid dies. And let's say that finding a body in the bathroom of a hospital in Budapest and then in one of the rooms of a hospital in Győr, and these unprecedented cases do not lead to the medical wallet carrying out an investigation and not entrusting the investigation to the institution; the result of the investigation, the names of those responsible, and tells us what you want to do to avoid the next such cases. Mr. Secretary, it's unparalleled that a body is lying in a hospital bathroom. And now let's not open the debate that it was five days or just one - that's a problem either way or a problem. Let's not open the argument that a homeless man's body was found in Győr. In death, all our fellow human beings have the same dignity, Mr. Secretary. It's about the health institution network you described as wonderful doesn't seem to be working, and you, as a wallet, have no say in that. They're on the run. They run, and they don't comment, they push the problem away: it's not our problem, it's the institutions'. Secretary of State, why are you doing this? That's my question. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-12-05-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-12-05-119	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It was not always so that you listened when Jobbik spoke, but this is not our topic, but another very important issue, the situation of Hungarian health, which I do not think we can talk about at any time in Parliament. [[15.50]] Therefore, I ask that the details which appear to be nuanced, but which are important, when you make a list, should be mentioned when you talk about the hospital in Győr, that it is not a property in which the hospital is managed, but a property rented to a sports association, where the tenant obviously does not maintain order, but the tenant, so he had to make sure exactly what was happening in the apartment he rented. If someone rents an apartment, it's about the same situation, it's not too complicated, so there the tenant sports club has to look at what happened exactly. However, with regard to the case in Budapest, as has already been said in Parliament today, an immediate and detailed inquiry was ordered to see exactly what someone's omission might have been, perhaps, about the error that led to this incident. However, it is a continuing responsibility of a ministry, a government, to try to renew the entire healthcare system both in its financing and in its technical equipment and organisation, and what we did in connection with the emergency care in Budapest proved to be a good thing, that restructuring was good. The proposal of superhospitals is supported by everyone in professional circles, since it is one of those XXI. It is a modern form of care of the century, which truly serves patient safety in many other countries, starting in Austria. The fact that we have launched a predictable wage increase programme for several years is also a recognised improvement in patient safety and health care. Developments that replaced instruments worth more than HUF 100 billion for decades have also improved patient safety. These measures are needed to improve healthcare in Hungary. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-05-120	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Mr István Tukacs in return. Here you go.
u2016-12-05-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Secretary of State, I just expected you to tell me what measures are being taken to prevent a hospital from complying with its own rules on cleaning, so that a hospital would not conclude a contract such as that in Győr that it was not provided with the terms of security. I just expected you to show me what you and your government are doing to make sure that, as far as possible, no unlucky person dies in an institution, so you should have done your job in this, and that's what I expected. Instead, you're talking about having an investigation - of course, self-examination. The institution that made a mistake will examine itself for what it did wrong. That's a heavy limp, though. And one more thing, Secretary of State: you have not had a participant's word about the two unfortunates who died; you, who were supposed to be the first to say that you regret the death of two people. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-12-05-122	Thank you, Congressman. The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-12-05-123	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, If the congressman had paid more attention, even in the previous interpellation period, we said that the person who was found dead at the hospital in Budapest had received several benefits and all the care he needed. [[István Tukacs: Because he deserves it!]] And he did suffer from various diseases. We have tried to help him with his diseases, and I believe that the death of all our fellow humans is obviously the same loss for everyone. Of course, we also strive to improve the quality of care so that as many people can spend as many years in health as possible, as many years among their loved ones as possible. And if you look at the different calculations of the past years, you've obviously managed to spend months and years of your health time every year, and we're confident that this will continue to happen in the future, so that everyone can spend as many years in health as possible among their loved ones. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-05-124	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Editor Sebestyén, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office an immediate question:. How much does it cost? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Nándor Csepreghy, Minister of State, Deputy Minister, as a response to an urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-12-05-125	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Last week, János Lázár announced that he would pay a HUF 480 delivery fee offered by Posta in connection with the Erzsébet vouchers, which he wanted to send to pensioners before Christmas. He said that instead, it would be the government officials who would make this delivery, this delivery. The point of my question is how much this is going to cost, whether they have calculated the cost of delivery. We're talking big assets, you can't just put a government superb in it and bring it down to government offices, but you have to guarantee the safety of that. The same is the case with the storage of vouchers, it is not the storage of a simple pile of paper, but there are different regulations there. We haven't talked about counting the security guard's hourly pay, how much that comes out. We can calculate either with the salary of the government official or even with the hourly wage of the government official, or worse, if you think that this cost can be saved, because this task can also be charged to the government officials' stock, to the overloaded government officials' stock, which is in question whether you can take your leave by the end of the year, questioning whether you can handle the cases to be closed by the end of the year. According to the latest ombudsman's report, social services are understaffed, unable to supply the amount of documents there, unable to carry out their duties normally, and not given the circumstances. If we add the delivery task to this, and if we look into the past and take into account the telephone services used for campaign purposes, then I think it is unfair to the government staff. What do you think you're doing? How can this be accomplished? My main question, of course, is how this comes out cheaper than the 480 HUF offered and recommended by Posta. The morbid thing would be to ask pensioners to take over the Erzsébet vouchers in Budapest in the Ministry. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-05-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-12-05-127	Mr President, Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, Probably because of the work of his representatives, he couldn't follow the news. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, at the request of the Prime Minister, Minister Lázár received two hours ago the leaders of the Hungarian Public Officials, Civil Service Workers' Union, Péterné Boros and János Árva. The Minister considered, listened to and accepted the union's proposal and asked the Posta to make a new offer that would allow faster and cheaper delivery, so that the staff of district and government offices would be relieved of delivery duties, regardless of whether this would have been an opportunity to meet people in their lives who are essentially working daily to serve them. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-05-128	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2016-12-05-129	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. It's a comedy. I would suggest to Minister János Lázár that you better think about what the consequences of this will be, and better consider the financial consequences, even in the government officials' office, because if we talk about gross-net in Posta's HUF 480 bid, if we follow the logic, as in Elizabeth's vouchers, a significant part of that 480 HUF goes back to public finances, so we are talking about a net amount of HUF 300, please take this into account. The last few days have proved that I, as a social expert, do not consider myself a financial genius, a financial expert, but I seem to know more about finance than the Secretary of State for András Tállai NAV. That is why I dare to suggest that you consider the solution that we propose, that is to say, not in Elizabeth's voucher, but as a one-off ten thousand HUF pension supplement to the bank account and, in the same way, to provide this amount to pensioners. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Tamás Sneider: No taxes! You don't have to pay taxes.]]
u2016-12-05-130	Thank you, Congressman. The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-12-05-131	Honourable Congressman, As soon as you may have missed it, government is created as a result of a dialogue. Now there was a problem with trade union workers that we offered a solution to, and they said that they had a better proposal than that, and the Minister accepted it and accepted it. They're always asking the government not to engage in meaningful dialogue, and you've seen the opposite. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-05-132	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, László Földi, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask whether the Member accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-12-05-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Many times and in many places it has been said that the Hungarian economy has finally recovered from its former difficult situation. An increasing part of society feels this in everyday life. The growth of the economy, its results and the development of EU funds have also brought serious changes in health. [[16.00]] From statistical data, it is clear that while in 2003 government sub-schemes spent just over HUF 1000 billion on health expenditure, this increased to nearly HUF 1400 billion in 2010 and to HUF 1800 billion in 2014, including outpatient provision from 244 billion in 2010 to 284 billion in 2014. Emergency care in the healthcare sector, like the first line of protection in the healthcare sector, is of particular importance, since in acute cases decisions based on early examinations can save the patient's life or have a beneficial effect on the patient's full recovery. There are also reports of cases where, following an emergency health check by a qualified nurse, a patient who has been admitted to the emergency room will not be subjected to tests of differentiated diagnostic significance to clarify the patient's complaint. The periodic monitoring of patients who do not require immediate care, depending on the number of patients requiring acute care, is part of the emergency care protocol. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to ask the Honourable Secretary of State, with regard to health improvements so far and to what extent health improvements can improve the quality of emergency care. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] What possible additional measures are the government planning for emergency care? I look forward to the Secretary of State's honour's reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-05-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2016-12-05-135	Thank you very much. The new structure of emergency care in Budapest has been working well since spring. The aim of the complex hospital programme in Budapest is to continue to provide the 24-hour provision of acute emergency care, which directs patients to the right place in the shortest possible time, but not later than 24 hours, whether outpatient care, hospital care or basic care. TIOP 2.2.1. aimed at developing infrastructure for hospital levels in the emergency care system by developing new emergency departments and by modernising existing emergency departments or improving them to a higher level. Modernisation in this case has affected convergence regions, with the fundamental aim of ensuring territorial equalisation of access to high-quality healthcare, reducing existing social differences and continuing to be achieved. In total, 11 emergency care departments were developed in 11 counties, with a total value of more than HUF 6.5 billion. Due to the development of tools and a strong professional approach in recent years, the professional requirements of emergency care departments have changed, and the development has recently widened the diagnostic equipment park that is felt and accessible to emergency departments. Mobile X-rays and mobile ultrasounds have become mandatory, as well as the presence of point of care devices, which offer the possibility of laboratory diagnostic tests at the so-called bed, i.e. the site of care. EKG, mini Doppler, must be in every emergency department - it's an ultrasound examination device. There should be a blood gas analyser in each emergency department, which should, inter alia, provide information on the patient's oxygenation and the possibility of measuring blood sugar, haemoglobin and ion levels should also be ensured. I'll pick it up from here in a minute. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-05-136	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2016-12-05-137	Thank you for your reply, Secretary of State. I think that Hungarian health care, including emergency care, is becoming more and more renewed in the use of both EU and domestic resources. I hope and hope that this not only affected the convergence regions, but I hope that Pest County will also benefit from such improvements, as there are more than 1 million 300 thousand people in Pest County, and it is very important that the hospitals in Pest County also have an SBO class where patients can receive very decent care. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-05-138	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-12-05-139	Of course, as I said, this spring after rural development, the restructuring and development took place in Budapest, as our priority is emergency care, and accordingly we are working to ensure that, under the best possible conditions, with the best possible asset park, there is an adequate standard and uniform access to care in all parts of the country, both in 19 counties and in the capital. In the context of the development of basic care, the aim is to provide basic care, to save and to coordinate institutional emergency care. Returning to the presentation of the previous development, the availability of laboratory diagnostics by the bed in emergency care departments gave us the opportunity to quickly detect coronary artery diseases and thromboses, as the tests will now produce results within 20 minutes. In addition, other X-ray examinations, CT scans and further laboratory tests are available as a matter of urgency to emergency care departments. Accordingly, a well-confirmed and complete diagnosis can be obtained in emergency care departments. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-05-140	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: Viktor Orbán and János Lázár begin to understand that he has arrived with the title of the 21st century. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister Sándor Fazekas to respond to the urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[Ikotity to István:]] Yes, you have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-12-05-141	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Last Thursday, the Prime Minister and the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office have made a statement that clearly has a connection. I would like the Minister to give this answer as to what this connection is. Last Thursday, the Prime Minister said that he was obviously talking about the ways out of the wage crisis that he caused himself, and I quote, we are on the verge of a technological revolution, a new industrial revolution. There is a large technological change in modern economies, including Hungary, which will change everything. As a result, we are obviously pleased that the Prime Minister sees that Article 21 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union states that: We arrived in the century, and he said, again, that he will shake the entire modern economy and put us all to a serious challenge, said the Prime Minister. By the time, on the same day, last Thursday, János Lázár, when he came out to the public and spoke about the roll-out of EU funds - which, by the way, we know is a highly corrupted process - he specifically classified the use of EU funds and participation in the technological revolution as a weakness in Hungary. He said: "There is no answer to how the country can participate in a technological revolution. The Prime Minister has admitted that there is a XXI. And Mr. János Lázár said that we could not participate in this. For this, the Possibly Other Policy has a number of suggestions that should be made. Our question to the Minister is whether or not some of these will be taken. These include radical increase in education resources, introduction of a new basic curriculum adapted to the needs of students, reform of the vocational training system, lead-out of the oligarchs, widen access to the gates of higher education [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] , abolition of tuition, innovation, research and development...
u2016-12-05-142	Thank you very much, Congressman.
u2016-12-05-143	Will all these be taken, Minister?
u2016-12-05-144	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Sándor Fazekas. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-12-05-145	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I listened with great interest to your reasoning. I believe that there is no contradiction between the two opinions expressed by the Prime Minister and those given by Minister János Lázár. Personally, I am convinced that there will be huge changes in the coming years and decades, because it is apparent that the automation of industry, technological development and increased efficiency in the economy show that we are facing rapid development and explosive development. This also applies to agriculture anyway, so, while agriculture is moving in two directions, one is GMO production and the other is the development of traditional production, it can also be observed here that we can produce more and more efficiently, and we can supply people who need food in the farthest parts of the world. So what I see here is that progress, civilizational development, is clear. It is clear that Hungary must take its rightful place here, and European Union funds are a gift, a useful framework for this, but there are also obviously other opportunities, since the Hungarian scientific, cultural life, the research institute network system, the Academy and its institutions are a serious basis for Hungary's participation in this main stage of development. There are also companies, large companies, foreigners and domestics that represent the highest technological level and the highest technical level. [[16.10]] What answers can be given? I think that always applies to a specific area. If there is any idea that the government can consider, or if the players of the economy can consider it, even if it comes from you, it can be incorporated without further delay into such an adaptation process, which stands before the Hungarian economy, Hungary, in the coming years. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-12-05-146	Thank you very much, Minister. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2016-12-05-147	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I didn't say there was a contradiction. I'm looking for a connection. The Prime Minister interprets the situation - seeing that we are facing a major technological change here - as a finding, it will shake the whole world. That's what he says, Prime Minister. Minister János Lázár claims that we are not prepared for this. I quote once again exactly: - There is no answer to how the country can participate in the technological revolution. So this is my real question: if you do not have an answer, do you take up general proposals that I have just started to mention, such as monitoring innovation and R &amp; D applications. To mention only one thing: this GOP 1.1.1-11 application, which in August my colleague Hadházy analysed thoroughly, was won in virtually a significant part by companies that had nothing to do with research and development, they are consulting companies. If we stopped these, you would be much more prepared for the 21st century. The challenges of the century.
u2016-12-05-148	Thank you very much, Congressman. Minister Sándor Fazekas is entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2016-12-05-149	Honourable Congressman, The way I see it, the abstraction levels here are mixed up in what you said, once you talk about a specific proposal, and then about the challenges facing the world, and then the challenges facing the country or the government. I think these things should be handled separately. By the way, who you refer to, both Prime Minister and Minister consider this to be a topic of different magnitude and raised different planes of this problem. By the way, I think the world is about to change that no country has ever been prepared for. This is clearly seen in the development of robotics, automatic factories are created, few human participation is needed in certain areas of agricultural production, there are satellite-controlled agricultural production systems, computer-controlled production systems. So this, I think, will shake our traditional philosophy of the world if we look at this side of the matter. And there are few people prepared for that. [[In the notary seat Dr. Lajos Szűcs will be replaced by József Attila Móring.]] The other is a day-to-day adjustment that must obviously be made by the current government, by those working in the scientific and technological fields, as well as by those involved in these areas. If you have any ideas, we welcome them. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-05-150	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Anita Heringes, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. Why do they not do anything for the people in the region? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response. [[On the signal of Anita Herringes:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-12-05-151	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Secretary. First of all, I am addressing you with a professional political question, and I ask you not to be a mediator and not to give us a political answer now, but to be a mediator in order for the locals' problem to reach the Secretary of State. I'm going back to you with the problem of health care in the cellar area. The hospital at the basement has been removed from active beds, and many specialties have ceased. The people here have been promised that at least their physical therapy orders can be restarted, but this has also been cancelled. Back in the day, the reputable little hospital had obstetrics, surgery, internal medicine. The residents of the small settlements in the area turned with confidence to the workers here, and this small hospital was within reach. There's nothing left for today. In recent years, the elderly have had access to rheumatology to Tamási, where the people of the area's sack settlements could only reach with transfer and waiting. For many, this could have been a half-day torture. On the other hand, Tamási will no longer have a rheumatological specialization as of 1 December, so the residents of the area will have the opportunity to receive treatment and care with a full day's travel. Where is the respect of the elderly, which you always refer to? Where's the respect of the people around the basement? What is the Minister's message to the residents of Ozora, Bürged, Rögöly, Belecség, Myslai, Tolnámed, Cellar, Nagyszekler and Kiss Szekler? That's a lot of people, Mr. Secretary. Don't they have access to health care, available rheumatological treatment? Old people living in small settlements and often not very well-off people, it seems that their health is now abandoned by the government. Anyone who doesn't have a car won't be able to go to this kind of treatment? I look forward to your reply, and I really ask you, Mr Secretary, to give me a professional answer in this, and if necessary, to receive these people in the ministry who can tell us the local problems. Thank you.
u2016-12-05-152	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-12-05-153	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, The answer will be like your question: what do you say to the former patients of the National Psychiatric and Neurological Institute? What do you say to former patients at the National Medical Center? What do you say to the former patients of the National Institute of Child Allergology, Pulmonology and Development in Svábhegy? What do you say to former patients at the National Emergency and Emergency Institute? These, Congresswoman, are hospitals that you have closed down completely and permanently, have operated, there has been a great demand for their activities, and yet they have been closed down. Which, let's say, were closed with the City Council, Gábor Demszky, I didn't raise. Compared to this, we have tried not only to provide health care to people living in large cities, but also to people living in small towns. For example, in the case of your supply of cellars, which has been operating at St. Luke's Hospital in Dombóvár for years now. We spent 190 million forints on the development and modernisation of this site. In contrast to what you've been doing to the hospitals listed above, the closure, we in Cellar, tried to give everyone what we could, and therefore, to bring 190 million HUF worth of development there, precisely so that one wing of the building can be fully renovated, and as a result, the patients there are now XXI. Under the circumstances of the century, they can heal in that wing of the building and meet all the needs of the infrastructure conditions and, in addition, new equipment can be purchased. Thus, these public services continue to be available through internal medicine, surgery, obstetrics, gynecology, and blood collection, most of which, by the way, are far below the national average, which is locally absent. What we'd like to do is give it to the basement people, as opposed to what you've done. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-12-05-154	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. In return, I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-12-05-155	You know, Secretary of State, the people around Cellar don't want to hear our political quarrels, they don't want to hear about the past eight years; they want to know if we can solve their problem, whether we can rise above party politics, whether we can rise above what you have failed to overcome. People around Cellar are asking how to get to a rheumatological clinic in Dombóvár or even Szekszárd, where they are assigned. It's a day's travel. I understand that the answer so far was that they could get to Tamási, because the 15 km maximum is some settlements, but most of the time it is 15 km in the airline, and in many cases it can take a transfer to the cellar. For an old man, this is almost impossible torture. Please, it's almost Christmas, let's move on to party politics, let's get the delegation from basement to the secretary of state. I'll give you your contact information, and you can discuss it professionally, if you can't do it with me. Thank you very much.
u2016-12-05-156	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-12-05-157	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If the cellars want to go with a delegation, the hospital there with doctors, leaders or residents, they have always had an open door, and it will be no different. But when you decided on tens of thousands of children and adult patients, somehow that conscience wasn't typical of you. You know, politics is a question of credibility in many ways, whether a person who represents a party that only closed five hospitals in Budapest in a few years, and now, when he is in opposition, he begins to worry about another hospital. We have also tried to save many schools, many hospitals in the countryside, not only to save, to modernise, to guarantee the functioning of the state reserve, so that what there are enough sick people in one or more smaller hospitals will remain that, and we have not only been thinking about visitation fees and the like, against you. At the end of this year, the money that we freed for hospitals, for your hospitals, there in the county, in the region, is a great opportunity to help. 45 plus 15 billion forints! HUF 45 billion for expired supplier debts and HUF 15 billion for various efficiency-enhancing expenses. This is tangible help, tangible help, which will also reach all the smallest Hungarian hospitals. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]] [[16.20]]
u2016-12-05-158	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the immediate questions. We are going to the oral debate. It's 16 hours and 20 minutes. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question. It's an address. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2016-12-05-159	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, On 1 January 2017, the operation and maintenance of schools will be in the hands of the State. We have heard a lot of things about nationalization of schools in recent years, but we do not talk about employees who do maintenance tasks, perform janitorial, doorkeeper, cleaning tasks, and very little talk about mass catering. I would like to read a detail from KLIK's communication of 7 September 2016:. The performance of operating tasks can be done in several ways: with own resources and tools, or with the taking over of employees who are employed by the local government, this is also required by the relevant legislation, if the municipality decides to provide the employees with the task. The district may set up the operating organisation or department... . - I will not read any further, Commissioner State Secretary knows the communication. I'd like to ask you, Mr. Secretary, what about the kitchens that the schools run. What about the catering kitchens where they cook not only for schoolchildren, but also for kindergarteners, daycareers, schoolchildren, the elderly and perhaps even the local population? How will it be separated that the operation of the kindergarten belongs to the municipality and that the maintenance of the school will be transferred to KLIK? How can the budget of a catering be broken if it is to perform many tasks within a building? What about the news that got out of the media that if the maintenance staff, janitors, janitors, they wouldn't get any extra income besides their salary, say, Elizabeth's voucher? They're starting to quit with a crowd! We already know of local governments where employees have already resigned because they are not willing to do the job. Secretary of State, are you in danger of mass catering as of January 1st? Or will a chaotic state rule from January 1 when the children go to school on January 2nd? I'm waiting for your answer, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-12-05-160	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-12-05-161	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, If you are wondering, Congresswoman, what will happen after 1 January, then I must go back to 2013, because then the municipalities have not only handed over half of the schools to KLIK to maintain, but also to operate them. In those cases, the continuity of school meals or school maintenance was smooth. At that time, about half of the schools, in number, passed from the municipalities not only in maintenance but also in operation to KLIK. Now it is the smaller part in many, but about a similar part of the student population will also be transferred to KLIK. If you look at the experience of three years ago handover and continuous operation at that time, which happened then for several schools, this will now happen for fewer schools. At the same time, the public catering was continuous, as this is a municipal task, in the law the municipalities received this task, they received this support, through which the state sends this public service to the families, but the families have already claimed it individually, not only on the basis of the mayor's decision. Thus, a previous continuous operation task will also be carried out here, and the same will now take place for fewer schools than in 2013 for more schools. Therefore, I think it is unnecessary to ring any kind of alarm bells about this, even because it probably won't pay you politically, because, as I said, many three years ago, these shifts between these tasks were made at the school. The law continues to consider mass catering to be the same task. Who received an extra-wage allowance and who did not receive an out-of-wage allowance obviously showed a completely mosaic image in the previous years as well. Some were, some weren't, some weren't. Of course, the management of the district centre at the 58 district centre will bring out that next year, with more than HUF 104 billion more money available for institution maintenance than last year's budget adopted this year, they will be able to manage it and to what extent next year. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-12-05-162	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Csaba Gyüre, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of National Economy:. What does the Government intend to do to protect the employees of the companies that have concluded a strategic agreement? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister of State for Foreign Affairs and Trade, who is competent on behalf of the Prime Minister, answers the question. Congressman Csaba Gyüre has the floor.
u2016-12-05-163	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Dear Secretary of State, On 15 April 2013, the Government of Hungary concluded a strategic partnership agreement with LEGO Manufacturing Kft. The Danish toy company was 19 in this row. According to the government's communication, these strategic agreements had to be concluded with a view to improving the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy, improving the proportion of Hungarian suppliers, ensuring the company's long-term presence in Hungary, creating new jobs, investing as much of the profits of foreign companies in Hungary as possible. On the other hand, this government intention has been characterised by serious failures over the past four years, such as the closure of the Nokia factory in Komárom. The news has now spread that LEGO's factory in Hungary is also shutting down for a month. Employees received information on wage reimbursements, rosters. LEGO Manufacturing Ltd. it provides jobs for about 1,500 people. People from all over Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, even from Hajdú-Bihar, come here. The news has also spread that Trenkwalder Kft. a large number of families would be affected by a possible reduction in the number of people, especially considering that the county of North-East Hungary is the country's most affected by unemployment. The labour force employed by Trenkwalder at LEGO is in a particularly precarious situation. Many have been working in the same workplace for years, but they do not have a permanent employment contract. They extend their employment contracts over time, possibly conclude a new fixed-term employment contract with them, thus making their situation uncertain. They will also not receive any additional benefits for the permanent employees of LEGO. These people can't take credit, they can't take longer, they can't even plan for the medium term. The strategic agreements concluded by the Government do not impose any legal obligations. Dear Secretary of State, I ask what the government intends to do to protect the jobs of those working in large companies that enter into a strategic agreement. I look forward to your meaningful reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-05-164	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Deputy Minister László Szabó, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-12-05-165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, The effectiveness of the government's six years of economic policy speaks for itself; it is worth looking at the numbers. And speaking of numbers, since 2010, 680,000 new jobs have been created, two thirds of them in the competition sector. Hungary has become the fifth country with the lowest unemployment rate in Europe and in the European Union. The northern lowland region has been one of the biggest beneficiaries of this economic policy, and in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county, employment has increased by 26 percent in the last six years. The current 72 strategic partners employ 165,000 people, and nearly 14 thousand more people have worked for these companies since the signing of strategic agreements. So there has been a very significant, dynamic development in these companies. In addition, more than 1300 new employees of all strategic partners work specifically in R &amp; D, which obviously also improves Hungary's competitiveness. So far, these companies have invested more than HUF 10 000 billion in Hungary, and only since the conclusion of strategic agreements, HUF 1600 billion of new investments have been created in the country. I don't think we can argue that this is a very successful programme. Of course, real life dictates that companies have ups and downs, and very successful periods. [[16.30]] By the way, LEGO is famous for introducing, together with National Instruments, an innovation digital technology education program a few years ago that improves the digital capabilities of the next two or three generations. So I'm sure it's a temporary wavering in the success of LEGO, and I'm sure the company will continue to present a very successful development, as it has done so far. By the way, strategic agreements, as you rightly said, are volunteers, only declarations of intent, and we, of course, cannot interfere with the current economic affairs of companies, we support them. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-12-05-166	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice:. When can the victims of Buda-Cash breathe up? It's an address. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2016-12-05-167	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, It's been a year and a half since the broker scandals started, and we still don't know when and in what form a significant part of the victims can get their legitimate claims. The government does not seem to be able to prevent assets from being removed from the Buda-Cash business network that could form the basis for the settlement of claims towards investors. It is also apparent from the fact that, since the liquidation last year, the third supervisory commissioner has been active at the government's home liquidation firm, but still has not been able to solve the problem of securing the asset, whether by sending out a lockkeeper or by placing the assets directly under lockdown. Until these shortcomings are resolved, the wealth is not safe and the chances of the victims being paid are decreasing. The majority owner of the Buda-Cash Broker house is Buda-Cash Vagyonkezelő Zrt., currently 4B Zrt., and one minority owner is BC 2000 Kft. János Gyarmati, who is in criminal proceedings, is still the owner of BC 2000 Kft. Here's what I'm asking, Mr. Secretary. What investors can expect, whose losses will be compensated only by Buda-Cash Brokerház Zrt. Or can this happen from the assets of related undertakings? What does the government do to ensure that the wealth that can cover the claims arising in the network of companies of the same interest as the Buda-Cash Broker house does not disappear hand in hand? Do you see an opportunity and what steps the government is planning to take to speed up processes that could prevent further squandering of the Buda-Cash fortune? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2016-12-05-168	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. State Secretary Pál Völner will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-12-05-169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, She has touched on a number of issues in her questions. Perhaps we should start by saying that the victims of the Buda-Cash Broker house, on the one hand, if their claims for damages have been submitted, will be settled from the Investor Protection Fund to a value of HUF 6 million. The other part is that the broker's house itself is in liquidation, and the assets that it has pulled with it belong to the interests of the liquidator, it acts according to the rules of liquidation, obviously the assets that are released and the assets sold will serve as a basis for compensation. The third element was the question of the property of the persons involved in the crime. In this respect, the 2015 XXXI on the security of assets for the compensation of victims of broker scandals. The Act on Enforcement has been amended in law and 202/A has been incorporated here. §, which, in the event of being placed under lockdown in criminal proceedings for criminal offences, has made it the duty of a clerk to ensure the preservation of the property placed under the lock in accordance with the rules of normal management. In this area, the 2016 CIII published on the 20th of October 2016. Act No XIX of 1998 on criminal proceedings Act 160/A laying down the rules governing the management of criminal property Therefore, these are the relevant rules which deal with this issue in the context of criminal proceedings. I stress that we are talking about the individuals who committed the crime and their wealth. Hopefully, at the initiative of the authorities, the court will allow the involvement of these assets properly. In the course of the sale, where the assets are placed and in what value, they are carried out in accordance with the relevant rules. There is no collateral received without these assets not being sold. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-12-05-170	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Gábor Riz, representative of Fidesz, would you like to ask the Minister of the Interior: "Will you do it? It's an address. Congressman Gábor Riz has the floor.
u2016-12-05-171	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, While Jobbik denies with every fiber of his nerve anything to do with the paramilitary forces, I can disprove that. There is currently a group of uniformed boots that are supposedly working together to protect certainty, Hungarian national values and living space. Its members appear primarily in places and settlements where, how wonderful, the Roma live in a high number of souls, their proportion is decisive in the settlement. Their appearance, as before the appearance of the Hungarian Guard in the settlements, raises fear and concern here too. Based on Internet resources, it is clear that the Hungarian Self-Defense Movement is trying to form as many local groups as possible within and beyond the borders. Their ideology is primarily adopted in people who are deceivable, well-meaning, or prone to extremes. In my environment, in my constituency, this group appeared, and with typographically demanding posters [[He's showing it to me.]] appeared, in which they are the antidote to evil goals. That's what they're calling a recruiting rally for. It was only in the ingenuity of the mayor's wife that she foiled her in the second round. In the first round, the bill was issued for the organization's event, and how interesting, the account's cost manager was the Jobbik Hungary Movement. Dear Secretary of State, We all wonder whether the Jobbik will take on or not take on its roots. Do you undertake the paramilitary organizations among which his former or current members march? Is there a link between Jobbik and the uniformed paramilitary organizations with shooting exercises, or does their appearance and marching pose a direct security threat to the citizens of any settlement? Thank you very much, I look forward to your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-12-05-172	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Károly Kontra. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-12-05-173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thanks to police, secret services and TEK, several raids have taken place in recent days to detect and eliminate paramilitary organizations. TEK carried out captures in Bőny, Budakalasz, Budapest, Jászberény, Mosonmagyaróvár, Rad, Sajókeresztúr and Vác. A total of 12 people were produced in the raids, and weapons were also found during the search. All suspects are connected to a branch of the Hungarian National Front Line. Several firearms were seized and five people were produced with joint action by the National Bureau of Investigation and TEK, in Budapest, Ipolytölgyes, Jászárokhállok and Putnok. Several firearms, data media, records, propaganda material were seized by the Bureau of Investigation. By deceiving the population, these paramilitary organizations, with the promise of orderkeeping, are trying to gain support and become a politically dominant player. On an occasional basis, on a cost-based basis, sharpshooters are organized, members' meetings are held. Pursuant to Article 46 of the Fundamental Law and according to the relevant provisions of the Police Act, the maintenance of public order and public security is solely the responsibility of the police in Hungary. The Government is also committed to enforcing this basic rule of law, and I can promise you, honourable Member, that it will also enforce the future. I would like to reassure Congressman that the Ministry of the Interior and the secret services will act and protect the security of the Hungarian people, whether it is the Hungarian Guard, the Hungarian National Frontline, the Szép Főrakért Egyesület, or any other organization, even the organization you mentioned, that is operating for similar purposes. The Minister of the Interior is expected to inform Parliament's competent committees this week about further facts and information concerning political and paramilitary organisations on the far right. I would like to thank Mr President for drawing attention to this, and I would like to assure you that the police, the Ministry of the Interior, the TEK, the services are doing their best to ensure the safety of the Hungarian people and Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt intervenes.]]
u2016-12-05-174	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. Dear Parliament, Zsuzsanna Szelényi independent representative... [[16.40]] Congressman, you have every opportunity to ask the Minister of the Interior a question. Thank you very much. Thank you for your cooperation, we will continue our work. Dear Parliament, Zsuzsanna Szelényi, an independent representative, wanted to ask the Prime Minister a question: Why does the Hungarian government not act clearly and firmly against Russian influence in Hungary? It's an address. On behalf of Prime Minister Sándor Pintér, Minister for the Interior, who is competent and competent on the subject, Mr Károly Kontra will answer the question. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2016-12-05-175	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, A kind of natural sequel to what we just heard is my question, and I hope that I will get a reassuring answer. I have been dealing with the question of studying the Russian influence in Hungary for some time now. We all know that the presence of the Putin regime has been strengthened throughout the world in recent years, and this is particularly important in our region, Eastern Europe. Very clear steps are being taken in almost every country in the area in order to reduce the different methods of Russian influence, but there is no news about Hungary at all, and I find this extremely worrying. Among other things, we know from the events of the past few weeks that Russian diplomats have practiced together with far-right organisations within the framework of the aforementioned Hungarian National Arcline. We know that, for example, the web portal hidfo.net changed its name a few years ago; it is clearly controlled by Russia, which conveys an incredible amount of false news. Similar cases exist in other Eastern European countries. For example, we know that where joint training takes place with Russian so-called diplomats, mercenaries from Slovakia, for example, went to fight in Ukraine. And Internet penetration is simply a cliché in the world. We also know that there are more than a hundred such portals for disinformation in Hungary, and they not only contain false news, but also express incredible activity. On average, 72 daily reports are published, for example, by the Discovery Portal. Recently, last week, Péter Szijjártó told me to calm down, the Hungarian government is in control. However, I am not reassured in any way, we want to see evidence, we want to know concrete steps, otherwise we are forced to believe that the Hungarian government is in Putin's pocket and hand. Thank you and I look forward to your reply.
u2016-12-05-176	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-12-05-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to assure you that the Hungarian Government is definitely preventing any foreign influence against Hungary. This can come from the east, from the west, from the north or from the south, we, the Hungarian authorities, the Hungarian government, are taking action against this. The secret services will use all the means at their disposal to prevent foreign power interests from influencing Hungarian government decisions, from any country or organization, from coming to this goal. Under the National Security Services Act, national security services investigate and avert foreign intelligence efforts and activities that violate or threaten Hungary's independence, political, economic or other important interests. We are not fighting alone, but together with our allies, their achievements show the successful activities of the Hungarian secret services. The tasks of the Constitutional Protection Office shall be those of the 1995 CXXV on national security services. by law. In any case, the Office shall fully comply with its statutory obligation, but its activities shall not take place in the public eye. The Act allows the National Assembly to exercise parliamentary control of national security services through the National Security Committee, in which case it may request information on the country's national security situation, the operation and activities of national security services. The Committee has exercised this right, has discussed the matter on several occasions in a closed session, and the answers to the questions put by its representatives have been provided by the services at committee meetings. I would like to stress that the committee, members of the committee, still has the opportunity to be informed on this issue. National security services managed by the Minister of Interior will continue to fully support the work of the Constitutional Protection Office and the National Security Committee in the future. I assure Congresswoman that if we have hostile foreign secret service activities in our country, the authorities will act quickly and effectively against it. And as for the Jobbik question, [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: No such thing!]] or the previous comment, we trust that Jobbik will make a statement as to whether these assumptions that have been made are valid or not. Thank you very much. [[Martin Gyöngyösi: He hears voices! I know a doctor who specializes in this. A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-05-178	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Nándor Gúr, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy a question: It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Miklós Seszták, Minister for National Development, who is competent and competent on the subject, answers the question instead of the reply by State Secretary László Tasó. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2016-12-05-179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Secretary of State, there are victims within the framework of the reduction of the rent in the quotation mark, you know, those who were cheated when the service fees were raised in 2011-12, and then they gave the little lollipops. You know that. In addition, of course, public service workers whose wages have not increased in recent years at the level of public utility services. I have to say - for example: the gas sector - in the gas network sector, you know very well how import prices have increased over the last two or three years, how gas prices have developed. It also knows that the gas price at the time of the government change in 2010 was lower than at present, in 2016, the gas price associated with consumption above 1200 cubic metres. Now, that's your rent reduction. But it is not just gas, it is also true in terms of water, water utilities or waste disposal. If I have already mentioned water and water utility services, I must say that, obviously you know, there are enormous burdens within the framework of these businesses in terms of raising the minimum wage, a guaranteed minimum wage. In the water utility service, especially in the local government reserve, mainly in the local water utility service providers carrying the multitude of small settlements, where the specific cost of the utility tax is many times higher than in a larger city. They are all made impossible, and they do nothing to make them work. When are you going to ensure normal living conditions within this framework? And when are you going to cause the people who work here to grab you, stay here, and stay away from the profession, even from the country? So, there's a little more to be done in this regard on these surfaces, Secretary of State. That's what I'm asking you to answer. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-12-05-180	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State of Tasó. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-12-05-181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I can't fully answer your questions, but allow me to reflect on a few things. Among other things, there are about 40 companies operating in the domestic water utility sector, of which five companies belong to majority or exclusive state ownership, and thus to the management of the Hungarian National Asset Management. In regional, majority state-owned companies, wage-mass management is carried out on an annual basis, but you know it. The annual wage and staff figures are accepted in the annual business plan, but my fellow Member knows this. This year at Duna Menti Regional Vízmű Zrt., a 5% wage correction was applied to the workers involved in the restructuring, whose basic salary did not reach HUF 180,000. The purpose of the wage correction was to complement in some way the income of workers who lost income during the restructuring. After the change of ownership, a wage increase trend has started for state-owned gas companies. At Főgáz Zrt. and at Főgáz Natural Gas Distribution Ltd. since 2010, wages have increased on average by 2.4 percent per year and cafeteria benefits by 17 percent. In addition to the reorganisation of the water utility sector, the government also prioritises the wage development of public utility workers. And in 2010-17, as you said and said, the wage increase package will help workers to a very serious extent. 15 percent minimum wage increase, 25 percent guaranteed minimum wage increase. [[16.50]] We are also planning a 5% reduction in employer contributions. In addition, we will continue to consult with employees and their representatives. I don't think there's anything more we can do all of a sudden. I think that answer can be appreciated. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your attention and for the floor.
u2016-12-05-182	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The last question of representatives will be on our agenda. Dear Parliament, Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Minister of Human Resources, "Just photocopying?" - Why doesn't the government deal with the problems of traineeships? It's an address. Congressman Gergely Farkas has the floor.
u2016-12-05-183	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Jobbik has already drawn attention on several occasions to serious problems and maladministration around traineeships. In the case of my last question like this, you, Mr Secretary of State, have mentioned only the dual training system as an area that works well. We're not gonna argue that. However, it is a fact that this form of training affects only a few percent of students, or a few thousand students. With this answer, you have demonstrated that about 95 percent of students, hundreds of thousands of students, are not even involved. That's why I'm forced to ask that question again. To date, we have received many complaints from those involved in vocational training and higher education regarding traineeships. Instead of material and modern knowledge, the companies that employ them often only use the students for photocopying, coffee making and similar activities. The problem is the excessive administrative burden, the abuse of students and the lack of incentives for employers to benefit. The government doesn't really deal with these problems. [[Intruder from the benches of Jobbik: Shame!]] However, there would be an urgent need to resolve them, and there would be a number of opportunities to develop in the field of traineeships, which Jobbik has stated on several occasions, most recently in the national campaign of our youth department in this direction. It would be necessary to establish an online traineeship information system, to recognise quality traineeships, and to promote strategic agreements with business partners. Jobbik would reduce unnecessary paperwork, provide employers with tax and contribution reductions for trainees, and exclude practical places where students are mistreated in order to protect students. Dear Secretary of State, Based on all this, I ask why the government is not finally tidying up in the field of traineeships. Why don't you deal with the problems experienced in traineeships? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-05-184	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-12-05-185	Thank you very much. After a less serious reaction to your faction, let me answer your question seriously. On 27 November 2015, the legislative amendment that we have brought to an end precisely to these problems came into force, honourable Member, which you mentioned. That Government Decree further clarified the provisions on traineeships. It is the Education Office that keeps records of agreements concluded by higher education institutions and universities for more than one year with their own institutions, market participants, anyone else, internal practitioners, professional practitioners, contributors, anyone else. The Board of Education has extensive powers to carry out on-the-spot checks, obviously in cooperation with others to whom I will refer. This on-the-spot check shall examine whether the data provided, i.e. the scope of the work, for example, is real, so that it examines both the authenticity, completeness, adequacy and legality of the data. As I said, the Education Office is not doing this alone, as it carries out these surveys, these checks, in cooperation with the Chambers, the experts of the Hungarian Rector Conference. If, therefore, you or any other organisation have knowledge, knowledge that if you go somewhere to check, it is not a professional place of practice or work as set out in the contract or in the agreement, then you can help precisely the work of these inspections by providing the data, information, evaluable facts that will help to preserve the seriousness of the practices, while enforcing the legislation that came into force in the second half of last year. So we very much welcome you to participate in this work with your own information, because here we need to keep the higher education institutions, the maintainers, informed about the results of the checks. It has also been an important change, and you know that the student employment contract also provides students with labour law protection without, however, giving them the obligation to pay contributions. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] However, in the case of a contiguous traineeship of at least six weeks, students are entitled to a remuneration for an amount at least equal to a minimum student allowance. Thank you very much.
u2016-12-05-186	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the discussion of the questions. It's 16 hours 55 minutes. Dear Parliament, It is now time for a series of proposals to be discussed. The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide to reduce the price of basic foodstuffs by CXXVII of 2007 on general sales tax. T/12574, amending Act T/12574. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Economic Committee. Dear Parliament, First I give the floor to the author, within a five-minute time frame. We now have a speech from Congressman Zoltán Gőgös.
u2016-12-05-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, For several years, we have tried this VAT reduction package to bring it to Parliament in its entirety and in its complex way. The positive thing is that every year the government tries to introduce parts of this package, but I think this method is not good in this regard, because it is quite clear that if we do this or did it with one air, the consequence of the fact that it is interested in this fraud system, I can safely say that the mafia will always find a kind of goods to move the activity to. This was clear that when it went fully, almost everything had 27 percent VAT, except dairy products and bread, which was 18 percent key, there was almost no area where there was no high-volume VAT fraud. When the government started, we also indicated that it would be appropriate to reduce them. Although there were symbolic steps in this, let us admit it, because the VAT reduction of half a goat and half a sheep was obviously not an economic issue, but rather a PR issue, but let us not be unfair. The first serious step, I think, was the living pig, as we also encountered serious fraud in that area. Possibly increased pig stock. The Ministry also commented on the genius of the pig program, although there was no other reason for that than the fact that the person who had sold the pig black was no longer worth it. That's how simple the formula was. And then this stock came in pretty much to its own place, but let's face it, it was a positive event for the profession itself. It was a bit nuanced that the VAT on input materials remained 27, so we managed to get a certain producer group to pay the VAT for about six months, but, I add, this clearly had a positive effect. Next came the VAT on pork. I have to stop here for a minute because we see a lot of news from very competent penners and bloggers that trade has swallowed VAT cuts, because they say it costs the same price again as it did a year ago. There is only one thing that is not taken into consideration, and it would not hurt to look at the statistics, that when the VAT reduction took place, the pig had a living weight of 280 forints. In English, it was very, very depressed, it was a price that wasn't even allowed, but obviously the 19 percent VAT rate came down from the meat prices then formed. And in the meantime, the market was sort of half-assed. In the meantime, there was a very large run-off to 450, but the take-over price is still around HUF 380-390, but it follows that the price of the final product obviously has to be higher, and this is not because of the VAT reduction, but simply because the producer prices went up. Therefore, it would be a very big mistake if someone told you to stop reducing VAT because it doesn't make sense. It makes sense. I'm just telling you that we're going to have a similar problem with poultry. If the price drops from 1 January now, there is also a marked price, because of the avian flu, the stocks are quite large, so obviously the VAT will come off at a cheaper price, but it will still have to be done, because it will help very, very much the small-time earners. [[17.00]] Now, we've completed this package, and we've been thinking about a complex package from the beginning. What is still the most important element, obviously the fruit and vegetables, the milk of UHT, because someone there - I don't know who - allegedly led the Prime Minister to believe that it was a harmful substance [[Defiance in the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP.]] It's not like that, it's just like the rest of the milk, it's made with a different kind of technology, but there's also milk in it, so we didn't even understand it when they said the nappers used it, because it's the most. So I think that we should take it very seriously that at least the milk has this story done, and we propose that we include our proposal, because then at least we can explain professionally to those who mislead even the Prime Minister that it is orbital bullshit that they say, so there is no such thing. Now, the other thing that's important is fruit and vegetables. The fruit and vegetables, the health matter, the fish, the freshwater fish are a symbolic issue, so it's not a question of money. There's always the word "supplier" about where it's coming from. If the government had brought in the fact that, for example, it would continue to reduce the VAT even at the expense of land sales - which, of course, we continue to condemn and consider to be a very serious mistake - then we would certainly not have taken it to the Constitutional Court, but by the way, we have taken the other matter, so we will find out who the Constitutional Court is telling the truth in this. To sum up, we should do this whole thing completely. The country could stand it, we would do very good for people with low incomes, and the huge amount of fraud that still characterizes this market would be eliminated. Consider, consider a series of subjects, talk about it, and if not first, vote on it in February. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Interview in the ranks of the MSZP: That's right! Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-12-05-188	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. I'm asking if anyone wants to speak. Yes, I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-12-05-189	Mr President, Dear House, At the very least, Jobbik finds the proposal that lies before us worthy of the hearing worthy, and it is no coincidence that we ourselves have tabled a proposal on a number of occasions on a similar subject. I would like to ask the government for a reason for not making more serious reductions in VAT for basic foods, since so far only the consumer basket, which is a gesture of a cosmetic nature, has been made in a manner that affects 6-7 percent of the average consumer basket. At the same time, we see that while they praise themselves by raising their pensions or not reducing the purchasing value of pensions, the fact is that, by taking this VAT reduction concept or a broader approach, it would be possible for pensioners to make it easier for the most difficult people - the question is whether they want to do so. [[He replaced the gullible Dezső in the notary seat with Loránt Hegedűs.]] Clearly, it can be concluded from the speech of their State Secretarys that their so-called budgetary balance efforts are more important for you at present than social justice, which would absolutely justify the extension of the VAT reduction, and I would add: not only to basic foods, but also to child-rearing articles. The thing is, the budget space would be there for all of this. In recent months, hundreds of billions of forints have been distributed out of remaining amounts or unexpectedly remaining amounts. Obviously, by reducing VAT fraud in itself, cleaning and bleaching the grey and black economy, a wide-ranging VAT reduction can also be seen as an investment, which can be repaid within a few years' horizon by whitening processes that bleach the economy. But more importantly, it would provide air, measurablely easier life opportunities for very wide groups of society. That is why we are not asking, but calling on the Government to take part in this debate at least at the level of negotiation, to express its position. We do not expect serious objections, as there are no serious arguments to ensure the security of the Hungarian people. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Erzsébet Schmuck applauds.]]
u2016-12-05-190	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, Group Leader. Here you go, Madam Group Leader.
u2016-12-05-191	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The LMP has also been saying for a long time that it is important both for the low earners and for the whitening of the economy that the basic needs items without which we cannot live should not be subject to a high tax. Basic foods are a preferential category in most European countries. We, too, have long demanded lower VAT levels in Hungary. The government has taken a few timid steps in this direction, but that is far from enough. For this reason, the LMP will also submit for each budget its amendment aimed at reducing VAT on basic foodstuffs, which is not a coincidence. In spite of all the government's success propaganda, Hungarian society is breaking apart harshly, and there is an increasing layer of people whose daily livelihood is already causing problems. The principle of VAT reductions is similar to the minimum wage exemption. It is not fair for the state to take it from an income that is needed to sustain life, and sometimes to impose a record-high tax on people. It is therefore necessary to reduce VAT around a wide range of basic foods so that it can be felt at all and have a real effect. We believe that we should also reduce the VAT on fresh vegetables, fruits, bread, bakery products, fresh and UHT milk, rice, flour, raw meat, food oil, freshwater fish. In addition to healthy nutrition, this would also encourage the consumption of domestic products, and would also help small domestic producers while bleaching the market. As regards VAT reductions in general, we believe that, in addition to basic food, there is a need to reduce the VAT on public transport and building renovations. [[Dr. István Nagy intervenes.]] But this could be the subject of a detailed debate. In any case, the LMP supports the inclusion of the subject series. [[Dr. István Nagy: We are happy for you.]] Thank you for your attention.
u2016-12-05-192	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor István Harangozó, MSZP. Here you go.
u2016-12-05-193	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, If I count correctly, we have presented this proposal to the House for the ninth time, and I would like to remind everyone that, during the previous period, when we discussed the reduction of VAT on basic foods at committee meetings, the agricultural purse was regularly supportive, and there was even the fact that the Minister of Agriculture said that the Ministry was the greatest leader in the reduction of VAT on basic foods in a uniform, large proportion, as our proposal states. Somehow, I couldn't get this through the wheel. At the time, the argument was that they were afraid it would cost too much, and that it would cost a great deal, and that the bleach effect would only come in slowly, and the budget would not be able to bear it so much, and that it was therefore not introduced at the same time, but at the same time, then per product scope. However, exactly what my fellow Member Haughty was talking about, the experience with pig VAT shows that our calculations and ideas that these costs will come back very quickly, come back very quickly, and do not represent a significant expense to the state. Thus, the argument that the budget could not bear it does not stop, so we would like to continue to ask that not only the agricultural purse, but also the other Fidesz Members, be in favour of the proposal, because there is no acceptable argument that the VAT on basic foods should not be reduced, as we have proposed. And what I would like, fellow Members, if there is no argument, then someone would explain to me what other reason, apart from creating or maintaining the possibility of VAT fraud, is why Fidesz will continue to keep this high food tax alive. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-12-05-194	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to speak. [[Zoltán Pride: Me!]] I don't see any contact. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Gőgös as rapporteur. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-12-05-195	Thank you, Mr. President. I thank my fellow opposition Members for their support. I'm sorry you didn't give your opinion, but you can probably think until tomorrow's vote, but I've submitted it once more. [[Interjections and clarity in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Again, so we'll have the tenth, so we'll keep this story going. By the way, I've been thinking about submitting Fidesz' proposal for 2008 [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] As noted by my fellow Member, Mr Font, everything from lobster to caviar would have a food tax of 5%. I wonder if they'll vote against it. The only problem is that it's just a professional bullshit that I didn't have a heart to sign, I'll tell you honestly, and someone has to sign it (Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP. ) so I can't do anything, so I'm not putting my fellow Members in this position to sign something as stupid as the one they submitted at the time. In any case, it was apparent that the intention of the opposition was a little different. I would like to say so much - this has not been said - that I do not think that this would be such a big hole in the budget, because one has to be seen: whoever is cheating on VAT is forced to cheat on wages, so there is no such thing as cheating on VAT alone, because from that point on, no one can pay official wages on official income. [[17.10]] So the big loss is not only due to VAT fraud, but also due to the fact that public burdens are not being paid. Not to mention, when you see the 45-forint Polish potatoes on the side of the road, even though an old friend of mine in Poland calls me that you, the potatoes are very cheap, can't be that cheap. There's no way they can bring him here and even pay the VAT afterwards. Not only will it be paid in, the VAT will be reclaimed twice from three homeless companies, that's for sure, and after that they can probably put it on the road for 45 forints, I think, the good virus seed potatoes three or four years earlier, which they can't sell to anyone. They are obviously trying to feed this to poor Hungarians. I hope they're not so stupid. I've told you so many times that I'm very confident that you won't buy it, but in any case, it would be easier if you had a 5% VAT and then you didn't have such a problem. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-12-05-196	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the necessary measures to prevent the collapse of the public-funded health care system H/12997. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Welfare Committee. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the rapporteur, Congressman Lajos Korózs, within a five-minute timeframe. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-12-05-197	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr President, I'll try to be very brief. We listened to Minister Zoltán Balog today, and he described the health situation for a long time, and we also asked him a lot of questions on this subject. We have seen that there has been a tremendous amount of spending in the country over the last few months, building media empires, spending billions of forints on hate campaigns. We believe that there will also be an opportunity to spend more money on health than is currently the case. Ladies and gentlemen, It appears that more than 80 percent of professional and in-patient service providers are indebted to different levels of debt and that they owe more than HUF 90 billion overall to suppliers. A few weeks ago, we asked about the existence of all state-owned health institutions in our written question. It is also apparent, my fellow Members, that the value of the healing performance, i.e. its financing, has not changed between 2009 and August 2016, does not cover the depreciation of the asset park, for some of the wage policy measures imposed by the State in the meantime, has not managed the foreign exchange rate changes, the increase in drug and asset prices. It follows naturally that this deficit, as it is a structural problem, is being re-produced every year and every month. There was a wage increase, but most of the start-up doctors got worse, all the more because of the withdrawal of residency grants. The nurses received little, and the economic and technical workers received nothing from this wage increase. Foreign employment cannot be stopped by this unevenly implemented wage policy package, which is also clearly seen. The consequences of this are felt by patients, and few and overloaded hospital workers are unable to guarantee security of supply, lack sufficient resources for disposable devices, and increasing frequency of otherwise avoidable hospital infections. This has also been discussed recently with regard to a parliamentary debate day. The fundamental problem is that Fidesz MEPs do not regard health as a government priority. This is confirmed by the fact that, while the share of health expenditure in total government expenditure has typically increased in Europe, this proportion has decreased significantly in recent years in Hungary. It was more than 12 percent, I remember 12.3 percent, and within government spending, it has dropped to less than 10 percent in the last government period. I think, fellow Members, that health is our most important public concern, that the sustainable future in health really needs change, but above all more money. The debts of hospitals must be settled immediately and they must be prevented from being re-produced. This requires an immediate increase of 30 percent from 180 thousand forints to 234 thousand forints, so that the operating conditions for inpatient care can be improved. At least as indispensable an immediate measure is the immediate 50% increase in the wages of nurses and economic and technical workers and the continuation of the medical payment arrangements started. In order to ensure that healthcare does not return to its present poor state, public spending on health needs to be increased by half-half of GDP of gross domestic product over the next three years, with an increase of 6 percent of GDP reaching the total economic product in three years. The main measures needed to avoid the collapse of health care are identified in this Parliamentary resolution proposal, and I ask my fellow Members to support our initiative. Thank you so much for listening.
u2016-12-05-198	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame, and the independent Member applying for the first speech can present his position in a two-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman László György Lukács, Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-12-05-199	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Few people know that the Guinness record is 598 syllables in 55 seconds, that's all you can say. Well, in these two minutes, even 1,200 syllables could not summarize the health problems and the missing financial elements of public health. Our MSZP colleagues are right about almost everything in the proposal. Indeed, the lack of resources from the Hungarian health care system weighs both the elements of the institutional system, the hospital, but not only hospital, but also professional and basic care workers, both in terms of pay and in terms of working conditions. The lack of money occurs not only in the fact that someone does not have enough salary, but also in the fact that he has to work under conditions, with means, perhaps with shortages, which may impair the expression of the maximum performance he has learned. But they are also right that the financial deficit is reflected in the debt of suppliers that are now slowly paralyzing the entire sector, which will sometimes be cleared, cleared, paid, but are constantly around the neck, if you will, to hospitals and hospital managers. Overall, wherever we go, we see a financial crisis everywhere, whether it's basic care, outpatient care or inpatient care or rehabilitation. An economist who first identified underfinance as the three biggest problems in health care, underfunded as well as underfunded as well as underfunded as the third was not wrong. Therefore, the objectives set out in the proposal must be achieved primarily and immediately in order to start from a clean slate in the planning of health care. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-12-05-200	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, the LMP Group.
u2016-12-05-201	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. LMP also believes that the health care system problem is one of the biggest, most serious problems in Hungary. There's got to be something to do with that. We are very much in favour of the MSZP initiative and we support inclusion in the series of subjects. Now I would just like to draw attention to two issues. One issue is that the unequal treatment of health workers by the pay table will have its price. Now we're facing all kinds of wage increases. If there is a higher wage increase in the competitive sector, workers with low pay paid by the health pay table will stay in Hungary, but will leave health care in bulk to a position offered by a multinational, where there is less humiliation and better working conditions. At the same time, it is not just about matters affecting the health system, but in many cases it is simply not possible to resolve certain issues within the health system. In many cases, the upload of general medical and home-children's practices is hopeless because most of them are located in remote areas, from which everyone who has the opportunity would like to flee. So the many unfilled practices are also a consequence of Fidesz's rural policy, and we need to be aware of that, and if people do not have the opportunity to get a decent job, they will certainly suffer more and more illness in their lives, and they will be more likely to leave us prematurely. Think about it: transport opportunities also make life worse for people living in the countryside, where the bus only turns twice a day, there is much less chance of accessing specialist care. [[17.20]] In crowded homes, moldy, watery, degraded homes, children and adults will be at increased risk. So the problem is so great that the Parliament has to deal with it. The LMP supports the inclusion on the agenda.
u2016-12-05-202	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congressman József Kovács, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-12-05-203	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The title of this presentation is:. The urgent measures necessary to prevent the collapse of the public health care system. With this wording alone, the date is not correct, I would say to Mr Korózs, because this submission should have been submitted in 2007 after the 2006 reform measures, namely, at that time there were rather serious problems. It was then that we should have been concerned about those redundant health workers, workers, workers in the economic and technical field who had to be discharged from the health care system because of the measures in 2006. The fact that health is a priority strategic sector, and this needs to be very carefully addressed, affects all members of society, I fully agree with that. The HUF 90 billion debt, I don't know what source it comes from; for now, what we have, official data, is 60.5 billion debt that expired at the end of September, to which the government transferred HUF 60 billion to the health care system, undoubtedly transferring EUR 45 billion of it to this expiry date, 15 billion under the tender option and 10 billion in other forms even to the beginning of 2017. The other issue, mentioned by my colleague Mr Korózs, is the GDP share of health expenditure, in which he mentioned that 6 percent should be targeted. According to the OECD database, this was 7 per cent in 2015 and last time, by the way. With regard to wage developments, I would like to say that, on the one hand, the basic fee has risen from 150 to 180 thousand; there should have been more. Wage development will continue, medical wages will increase by 56.8 percent, and labor wages will increase by 65.5 percent between 2016 and 2019. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz and KDNP.]]
u2016-12-05-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Korózs as rapporteur in a two-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-12-05-205	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Recently, there was a very prestigious health conference, and there was a competent man, one of the leading researchers of Tarki, who said that today the damage that is happening in Hungary in health care because of the withdrawal of funds can be measured in human lives. I don't think there's much to explain. Last year, we have demanded that health care needs a one-off HUF 500-600 billion financial assistance in order to recover, and that, among other things, they can eliminate the supplier's debts, the white spots that are in front of health care. Look, basic care, I think there is no need to go about it, because here the Members mentioned it. Today there are whole walks in Hungary without a professional. In the small area of Abaúj, where there are still general practitioners, please, all the general practitioners are retired and more than two thirds of the retired general practitioners are over 70 years old. I don't think there's much to explain. I don't think there's much to explain, either, that when a home-school pediatrician's application is launched, no one's going to apply for it. There is only one solution that is feasible for maintenance organisations to combine these GPs, adult and child services. Summa summarum: the solution to the problem of underfunding. More money must be put into health care, into the structure I gave in my five-minute explanatory statement. Thank you very much.
u2016-12-05-206	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the declaration of the Year of Careers of 2017 H/12857. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Welfare Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr László György Lukács, in a five-minute timeframe. Here you go.
u2016-12-05-207	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The Jobbik Movement for Hungary submitted its proposal for this decision because it believes that, on the occasion of the anniversary of the birth of Zsuzsanna Kossuth, born on 19 February 1817, it is necessary, in particular, to respect not only the material, but also the professional, intellectual, and health care professionals. It is clear in itself that we have arrived at a 200-year anniversary from the birth of Zsuzsanna Kossuth, and this anniversary gives us the opportunity to use the National Assembly to give full respect to the profession and to show appreciation to them. The proposal for a decision itself therefore sets out the provisions, the proposals which arise as an opportunity for the government, which can, on the one hand, help organisations with an interest in increasing appreciation in this area and in relations with professional organisations, in order to ensure that this commemorative year takes place with the greatest possible dignity and the best possible care of the intellectual tradition. On the other hand, it also gives the Government and Parliament, as the body responsible for the legislative process, the opportunity to express, on the one hand, its gratitude, its recognition for both health care and social caregivers, which can be addressed, on the one hand, the problems that we are facing today. It is also important to add that this is the sphere and this is the workforce, the nurses, work either in health care or in the social field, who have had a rather difficult time in recent years. Not only in terms of the Hungarian wage ratio, but also in terms of the relationship between the OECD and the economically developed countries, it is clear from a recent survey in 2015 that these workers are not only in the last and last place in the national economy, but also in the last place in health and social workers, but also in international comparison in terms of purchasing power parities - i.e. how much they can buy from their wages, what products and what purchasing power they have - they are also last in terms of developed countries. Of course, not everything is material, and the commemorative year itself is not about material things, for not only with material things, but with the expression of respect for society in their direction, it is possible to help a profession. And why Zsuzsanna Kossuth? Zsuzsanna Kossuth, Lajos Kossuth's sister, as I mentioned, was born in Sátoraljaújhely on 19 February 1817 and died in emigration in 1854. In his short but busy life, he continued to work in the 1848-49 fights to provide proper care to suffering, sick or injured people, and then to work out the organization and organization of care in such a way that we can be proud and proud and build on it for future generations. During the war of freedom, she worked as a nurse-in-chief, not only for soldiers wounded on the battlefield, but also for soldiers' supporters as an eternal role model, and for the generations to come, a spiritual legacy and an example, the commemoration of which and the grouping of the memorial year around her person can not only give us an appreciation, it can give us not only a rank, but also a social obligation at some level. I therefore propose to you that what is now possible be supported - both by my fellow Members and by the Government - by including this proposal in the series of subjects, since the completion of the year of care, if you like, can only be achieved with the help of the government, with the help of professional organisations, and this can guarantee that not only a day off this year for the workers, but also guarantee that the institutions themselves, providing them with the right resources, can remember within a decent framework the nursing year that affects them. [[17 .30]] I therefore urge my fellow Members to support this series of articles in view of the importance of the matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2016-12-05-208	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. I give the floor to Mr Lajos Korózs, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2016-12-05-209	Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would very briefly like to assure the initiating faction that we will support this motion and the inclusion of this series of subjects, all the more so because it is an initiative that precedes its age, since there is an international day of memorial service. A well-known English nurse who performed this nursing activity at a very high level during the Crimean war, and who was also preceded by Zsuzsa Kossuth when he had a very serious institutional system at the time of the war of freedom, not only cared for the injured in himself, but also played a very important role in the training of professionals. The three principles that are about unconditional acceptance, compassion and the building of trust, we also believe that it is in any case worthy of recognition among nurses, and therefore we support this parliamentary resolution proposal and the inclusion in the series of subjects. It is basically a moral recognition of nurses, as my fellow Member said, that there is no special financial recognition here, because these nurses are preventing crisis situations, these nurses are healing, nursing, and, as I said, they also teach a lot. The nurses are doing a very nice job, trying but they have a beautiful profession, which is why the Socialist faction supports the initiative. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the MSZP. - Dr. László György Lukács applauds.]]
u2016-12-05-210	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck. Here you go.
u2016-12-05-211	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. We also believe that the traditions of nursing work in Hungary deserve more support than usual on the occasion of the birth of Zsuzsanna Kossuth. However, we do not think that the priority support of a single association is appropriate. It would be better if this were an open opportunity, where more associations and trade unions would have the opportunity to receive support for their event, so that more nurses can get directly to celebrate this round anniversary. In addition to our recognition, the situation of today's Hungarian health care requires, at least we believe, that we should not be privileged. In addition to nurses, all other professions are needed to make the system work, there is no way to take out a single gear, because then there will be further problems, which the government has proved perfectly by creating a shortage of professionals. In addition to additional resources, there should be substantial increases in wages, improved working conditions, and the focus of health care as a whole, an unbreakable system, thus making 2017 a remarkable year for every worker in every profession. To do this, we need to boost the wage increase, we need immediate hospitalizations so that we don't have crumbling plaster and third world bathrooms, where we don't have cases like last week. This does not mean that we consider the initiative not important, we consider it very important, because it is necessary to recognise nursing activity and work as much as possible and whenever possible to grow. Thank you very much.
u2016-12-05-212	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congressman József Kovács, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-12-05-213	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The initiative from Jobbik is very noble, declaring the next year as the year of nurses, on the 200th anniversary of Zsuzsanna Kossuth's birthday. The said lady, mentioned by my colleague Mr Korózs, is Florence Nightingale, the lamp lady, whom the world has come to know. And to say one more emblematic person, an emblematic person from this area, is Mother Teresa of Calcutta, whose name we all know. It is very worthy that Zsuzsanna Kossuth can be mentioned among these names. As Chairman of the Committee, in the last term, I was given the opportunity to declare his birthday as the day of the nurses by Parliament, in which, I must tell you frankly, Mrs. Katalin Makray, who has done a great deal on the civilian side, has helped me very seriously, alongside Mr. Speaker, to achieve this. I agree with Mrs Schmuck that it is indeed certain that it would be a precedent for a commemorative year, but I think that she could launch a series of ideas on which a number of such measures should take place. I, too, think that it is much better if the career model, with the recognition of those doing similar work in the social field, is on the road, and it is, in any case, the material appreciation that is very important, and young people are also interested in this career, in which, for example, the student scholarship programme is available under the EFOP. I also believe that this year must be better for nurses than the previous years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-05-214	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. I give the floor to Congressman László György Lukács as rapporteur in a two-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2016-12-05-215	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much to the parliamentary factions for having honored me with their response. Thank you very much to the factions who either fully or partly support the resolution proposal. However, I would like to clarify a few words on the point made by the couple. For the LMP faction, my fellow Member, Erzsébet Schmuck, I would just like to say that the Hungarian Nursing Association was only mentioned in this proposal for a resolution because they had already started preparations for this year of nursing, and they themselves announced the priority of 2017 within their own membership. By the way, this is the association who regularly holds the holiday together with the state medals mentioned by our fellow Member Kovács on the day, so that is why they were named, not in terms of partiality. To my fellow Member, Mr Kovács, the opinion of the Fidesz faction: thank you very much for your appreciation to Zsuzsanna Kossuth, and everyone knows better than us what a great activity you have done. I think that the year of the current planned nurses will cost the state almost nothing. This would be a classic donation or an opportunity, a gift for social and healthcare workers, which in some way would increase their appreciation, and although it is not a financial and non-financial gift, but let us not forget that twice a giver, who gives fast, this appreciation would be necessary now, by the way, the 200th anniversary is now open, so that we are looking at the 200th anniversary. So it is important to think about and work on it, and I encourage the other factions, as well as my fellow Members of Parliament, but also the government itself, that although this proposal for a resolution may not end up on the agenda and we cannot vote on it, let us make sure that 2017 is the year of nurses. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-05-216	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The LMP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide to condemn the Armenian genocide in H/11047. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, as rapporteur, in a five-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2016-12-05-217	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, At a time when the reference point of certain actors in Hungarian politics is clearly being pushed east, and on both the government and opposition sides, with Russian influence, there are worrying proportions of unconventional Turkish friendship, it is worth stopping for a moment and thinking about what moral basis is needed as a zero step in Hungarian-Turkish relations. [[17.40]] During World War I, the Armenian Holocaust was estimated to have claimed some 1.5 million Armenian lives. This was the first modern, systematic genocide of world history, which, however, has not been considered uniform to this day. More than 20 countries in the world officially acknowledge that genocide has taken place. Unfortunately, Hungary is not one of these countries, so the LMP is not the first time that the Hungarian Parliament has taken the initiative to recognise the massacre of the Armenians as genocide. As early as 1987 and 2005, the European Parliament defined the events as genocide, last year Pope Francis was the XX. He called the events the first genocide of the century. Back in the day, Theodore Roosevelt, former US president, called it the greatest crime in the First World War, and Churchill called it an administrative holocaust. Dear Parliament, What happened at that time in Turkey against the Armenians, the Armenian Christians, later returned to the bloody XX. During the later traumas of the century. It is not a coincidence that the overhearings were attributed to Hitler at the time after the Polish annexation, when he said:. Who remembers the Armenians today?!It is therefore important to remember and remind, because what happened in 1915 was repeated a few decades later. The industrial method of genocide against religious and ethnic minorities does not simply concern the specific ethnic group and religious group, but is a warning signal to all mankind. Historical facts, of course, can and must continue to debate, but it is not possible to relativity the genocide, as this will make ourselves defenseless. CHAPTER XX It teaches us exactly that if we turn off the human immune system against methodical killing, we will say no at the command of life. From now on, such murders may not only be the victims of Armenians, not just Jews, not just Gypsies, but also any ethnic group, any religious group. That is why we consider it important that Hungary also name these horrors. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-12-05-218	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi, Jobbik Group.
u2016-12-05-219	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, First, we saw the LMP's motion with similar content here at the Parliament's table in April 2015 and the Jobbik Movement for Hungary consistently expressed the view that this is a question of genocide, and that the assessment of historical events in Armenia is an issue that is specifically a historical issue. We believe that it is not right for politicians and Parliaments to express their views on such matters instead of historians. The question of genocide is a very complicated issue of international law. We believe that this is not a matter for Parliament, and it is not necessarily for different parliaments. There are several examples of where it will lead if we try to break the way on such issues by means of regulations or decisions drawn up by lobbyists, which have been taken campaignally. We believe that this will not lead to reconciliation, but to the stimulation of tension in all cases, especially in the current geopolitical situation, we believe that it would cause great damage if the Hungarian Parliament decided on such a proposal for a resolution. We believe that the emphasis should be on reconciliation between the two countries, the two peoples. Turkey took such steps a few years ago, Turkish historians offered Armenian historians to jointly process the past. I believe that every country, every parliament, has the task of promoting this joint reconciliation, not stimulating tension. Therefore, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary, like in the previous period, will not participate in this vote, we will not press a button, we do not want to, because we believe that the Parliament does not have competence to discuss this issue. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-05-220	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Member István Ikotity, LMP Group. Here you go.
u2016-12-05-221	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In opposition to the order of the civilized world, the Armenian genocide caused irreparable loss to mankind. According to the LMP, keeping the world's conscience awake would require a clear speech rather than averting the past, remembering for forgetting, where the goal is to close the past and forget, but only after the crimes called by their names get full publicity. We have been representing the same for years with regard to the publicity of state security documents. Until the past is known or the traumas of the past swept under the carpet, it is impossible to move on. I'm asking you to support this series of articles.
u2016-12-05-222	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck as rapporteur. Here you go.
u2016-12-05-223	Thank you very much. I just want to say thank you, then, for Jobbik's input, and obviously we will respect Jobbik's position. We take the view that there is no reconciliation without facing the past, so we ask the other parliamentary groups to reconsider and support the LMP proposal. Thank you very much.
u2016-12-05-224	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The LMP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the T/12069 amending the laws necessary to protect public money and public wealth more effectively. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr István Ikotity, as rapporteur, in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-12-05-225	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. In order to combat corruption more effectively, LMP has presented dozens of legislative proposals and comprehensive amendments in recent years. In the proposals, the majority of governments rejected them without exception, even though their topicality has not changed. This is also the case for offshore knights, on the part of the party governments, who bravely intervened at the level of words and constitutional declarations, but who worked with them to transform public goods into private assets, also the proposals to effectively prohibit the financing of offshore businesses, as is the proposal. In the shadow of the billionaire contracts concluded by offshore companies with the state, it is clear that the two issues are now inexcusably linked. The most important means of building their own power and personal wealth from taxpayers' money are today, alongside the use of the trombones, the offshore organizations with an undissolvable ownership and tax base in Hungary. Based on its previous proposals, the LMP therefore resubmits its proposals that consistently prohibit the conclusion of contracts with such organisations, and complements them with a criminal act called "offshore crime" which, despite legal bans, extends them to politicians and officials concluding offshore contracts as well as to business parties failing to make a statement about the actual owner. In addition, the proposal excludes corporate interests without a transparent ownership background or for tax avoidance for state leaders and government officials by continuing its proposals in recent years. [[17.50]] Contracting with offshore companies provides for a complete ban in the public sector, which also requires a review of the existing contract book, as well as mandatory registration of the beneficial owner in the case of the ownership of non-transparent ownership companies. We believe that this is a proposal that creates a clearer situation in Hungary, a situation that must be created. I ask with all due respect that you support this proposal. Thank you.
u2016-12-05-226	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2016-12-05-227	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. offshore companies are set up all over the world for tax evasion. The locations of the offshore show up all over the world as tax evasion and tax havens. And while Viktor Orbán and the half of Fidesz, who rode offshore before the 2010 change of government, did not forget that after 2010, the rules that had been adopted and which were still in place, and which were strictly prohibited or impossible to conclude public contracts with offshore companies, were abolished by Fidesz already in the first half of 2010. It is very, very important for us to keep offshore companies away from public money. And just a little, without the need for completeness: we are talking about the HUF 100 billion benefit of the settlement policy, about the sum of 200 billion of the MNB foundations, offshore companies, about the amount of at least 200 billion in the Quaestor asset disposal, these companies appear, and do not forget the gas trading company called MET, where there is also 100 billion in volume, not traffic, but profit around offshore companies. What I told you was at least 600 billion forints loose, and if someone were to earn the amount that could be used to repair Hungarian health care, then, oops, here it is, we found it. However, this HUF 600 billion is likely to become untaxed private property through offshore companies, and, as you can see, at the end of the day it is also likely to appear in private pockets as a purchase of various televisions, radios, public land and other public property, at least the picture shows this very strongly. Of course, we can propose any proposal, even this very strict criminal code case, to support, at least in any way, the inclusion of the series of objects. Thank you very much.
u2016-12-05-228	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-12-05-229	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I would like to point out that the Jobbik Movement for Hungary supports any initiative that would create a more transparent, clearer public life, and which would indeed point to the fact that we are trying to curb corruption in Hungary. But in our opinion, as long as there is a government in power that operates corruption at state level, centralized it, which creates laws that promote the development of corruption in Hungary, we can adopt any law that this government will not comply with. Think about it, on 1 January 2012, this government passed a law stating that offshore companies with an opaque ownership structure can no longer receive public funding from now on, nor can they enter into public procurement procedures, and the rest, and the rest. What's happened since then? In that year alone, the NFÜ gave nearly HUF 27 billion to offshore companies through various applications. What has happened since Viktor Orbán stated in 2010 that the age of offshore knights has passed? They've built their own offshore network of companies that are closely linked to Fidesz, how they can make public money disappear. Orbán's good friend, Andy Vajna, who has left the list of Tamás S Harangozó out of the country through offshore companies as Minister's Commissioner, as a reliable casino game organizer. As long as such a corrupt government is in power, we can make any laws, any regulations we can make, they're still gonna steal the money all the time. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary will support this series of subjects, but as long as you are in power, this will be of no use to you. We need to drive this government away, and then we can start fighting corruption. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-05-230	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-12-05-231	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We agree with our fellow Member Ikotity that dozens of proposals have been submitted, but one has not been added by my fellow Member, that they were all inadequate to achieve the objective, so that the committees, as this, have therefore not included it in a series of articles. In particular, he wishes to regulate non-real transactions, for example, but my fellow Member forgets that the 2003 XCII on taxation rules. Laws 1 and 2 §2 of the Act regulates not only the public sector but also everyone else. Or, for example, my fellow Member may not have read the Public Finance Act 41. Paragraph 6 and paragraph 50. § 1 which currently states that contracts for return can only be concluded with a transparent organisation and that a transparent organisation may be a beneficiary in grant relationships. [[György Szilágyi: Why don't you keep it?]] and paragraph 50 (a) (ii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (György Szilágyi: Why don't you keep it?) Then he tries to include the rules of substantive law in the company law. He'll use the concept of a low level. On the other hand, my fellow Member does not take into account the fact that Article 2 of the Law on Lawmaking does not apply. The regulatory content which can be clearly understood in accordance with § 1 (1) of this Regulation shall be provided. My fellow Member will not tell me what is low. Then he confuses the two categories of state leaders. One part is the political leader, the other part is the professional leader. It would prohibit all managers from buying a share in a public limited company. I think my fellow Member does not fully know what this bill is about or does not know the rules on the subject that are in force at the moment. Thank you very much for listening to me, the Fidesz fraction does not support this series of articles. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]] It is necessary to have a clear regulatory content that can be interpreted in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Article. My fellow Member will not tell me what is low. Then he confuses the two categories of state leaders. One part is the political leader, the other part is the professional leader. It would prohibit all managers from buying a share in a public limited company. I think my fellow Member does not fully know what this bill is about or does not know the rules on the subject that are in force at the moment. Thank you very much for listening to me, the Fidesz fraction does not support this series of articles. (Applause in the ranks of Fidesz. )
u2016-12-05-232	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I give the floor to Mr István Ikotity, as rapporteur, in a two-minute time frame for reply. Here you go.
u2016-12-05-233	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to thank, first of all, those who have expressed their support for this proposal, and Mr Vas Imre, for speaking and hearing from him what usually sounds like in committee, where they reject proposals by saying that we have made some kind of formal error or that we are overlapping with other laws. The repertoire is different, but the end is always the same. Honourable Congressman, These laws should be observed. Surely you are also aware of the surveys on the fact that if the offshore assets had not been removed from Hungary in the last 26 years, more than twice the total Hungarian debt would have remained within the country. You are aware, Mr President, that this is only 1-2 percent of GDP per year, but this is a huge amount in the time horizon of 26 years. If, in view of all of this, I would accept that Mr Vas Imre has said that it is true, I would ask, honourable Member, why, if we have already submitted this so many times, why not do it, and not only at the level of words, but also in such a way that if you are serious about these things, you will come to us with a proposal, or you will submit it yourself, so that these mistakes - although we are convinced that they are not errors, this is just a misdirection - can be clarified in this way. There is no such thing, my honourable fellow Member, that you do not want to face it; it is clearly in their interest to maintain this system, which does not create a clear situation. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-12-05-234	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. [[18.00]] Dear Parliament, The 2003 LXXX on legal aid follows. Discussion of the report before the final vote and the proposal for an amendment before the final vote on the draft law amending certain laws in the field of procedural matters. The Government's referral is T/1271. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Proposal for an amendment by the Legislative Committee before the final vote T/12719/12. I, and T/12719/13, before the final vote. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2016-12-05-235	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I inform the National Assembly that the Legislative Committee has dealt with and discussed T/1271 on 24 November 2016 for the second time. LXXX of 2003 on Legal Assistance. Law and the bill amending individual laws on procedural issues. In this context, the House Rules of Decision 54. It adopted a report before the final vote and a proposal for amendment before the final vote, with 23 votes in favour, 6 against and 1 abstention, containing technical specifications. I'd like to draw two of these. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] The amending proposal complements the draft law in order to ensure clear regulation 4. §2 of the Act by setting out the provisions of the Pp. new 370/B. Section 2 is inserted under the heading "execution and limitation of execution'. In addition, in view of the publication on 22 November 2016 of the 2016 CXXI amending certain laws necessary for the establishment of an electronic administration system. Law 13 of which § 306/V. It is necessary to clarify the new transitional provisions contained in the bill in accordance with its rules. In addition, the deadline for the establishment of the district court in Érd will be amended from 1 January 2018 to 1 January 2019 and it is therefore necessary to align the provisions on entry into force. Ladies and gentlemen, Please vote in favour of the adoption of this proposal. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-12-05-236	I welcome my fellow Members. I will ask if one of the political groups wishes to speak on this item. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see a candidate. The debate is therefore closed. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The 2015 XLII on the service relationship of the professional staff of law enforcement bodies follows. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. T/12878 submitted by representatives of Lajos Kósa, István Németh Szilárd, Dénes Galambos and Imre Vas The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre.
u2016-12-05-237	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed on 1 December 2016 the 2015 XLII on the service relationship of the professional staff of law enforcement bodies. T/12878 on the amendment of the Act The Committee presented a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 36 votes in favour. The summary proposal contains the amendment adopted by the Defence and Police Committee, which I have personally tabled. In the summary, I can tell you that the compensation for soldiers from the law enforcement system could also be settled in relation to the matter of the Honvéd Health Insurance Office. During the general debate on the bill, we were pleased to hear that a maximum consensus was reached with our opposition colleagues in order to compensate the former members of the Honvéd Health Bank who had suffered damage due to their bankruptcy. I trust your vote will support the adoption of the bill before us. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-12-05-238	Thank you. I will ask my fellow Members, the factions, if anyone would like to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] No one wishes, so the debate will be closed - and I will ask if anyone from the government wishes to comment. [[For signal:]] You have the floor.
u2016-12-05-239	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The government supports the proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-12-05-240	I would like to ask Mr. Congressman if he would like to answer that question. [[For signal:]] You don't want me, Congressman. This would be the time for the speeches by Members, if there were any. But I do not see a candidate, so the debate is now really closed. Congressman Vas Imre, I do not know if you would like to speak as rapporteur. [[For signal:]] No. Then I'll ask Mr Dénes Pigeon - he'll say yes. You have the floor.
u2016-12-05-241	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Based on the summary report of the Legislative Committee and the presentation of the representative of the government, I believe that Parliament has full information on the reasons for the submission of the bill. So in its complexity, I ask the Parliament to support the adoption of the bill in tomorrow's vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-12-05-242	Thank you. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, It follows from the 2007 Annex XVII on certain aspects of the procedure relating to agricultural, agricultural and rural development and fisheries aid and other measures. Act CXXII of 2013 on the marketing of agricultural and forestry land CCXII of 2013 on certain provisions and transitional arrangements related to the Law. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. T/12127 submitted by Congressman János Pócs The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee. I give the floor to Mr László Salacz. You have the floor.
u2016-12-05-243	Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that on 1 December 2016 the Legislative Committee is the House Rule 46. Article 17 of 2007 discussed certain aspects of the procedure relating to agricultural, agricultural and rural development and fisheries aid and other measures. Act CXXII of 2013 on the marketing of agricultural and forestry land CCXII of 2013 on certain provisions and transitional arrangements related to the Law. T/12127. The Committee submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 21 votes in favour, with 6 abstentions, without voting against. The summarised amendment only contains the proposal of the Committee on Agriculture to conclude a detailed debate on a point. The amending proposal creates consistency between the provisions of the Land Traffic Act by clarifying that partners must first establish an agreement on the distribution of usage rules and then have the opportunity to transfer the rights of use to them either for the benefit of the other owner or for the benefit of a third party in respect of the land allocated to them in accordance with the rules of use. [[18.10]] The bill before us summarises the experience gained in the field of agricultural law application and addresses the problems encountered in practice, in an effective way, we hope. I need your support for this. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-12-05-244	I will ask the rapporteur, Mr János Pócs, if he wishes to speak. It says yes. You have ten minutes, Congressman.
u2016-12-05-245	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I do not want to take the ten minutes, but I would like to inform the honourable Parliament that the Agriculture Committee and the Legislative Committee have discussed the proposal. My fellow Members know the material. No amendment of merit has been tabled. I would ask my fellow Members to support me. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-12-05-246	Thank you. I'll ask if anyone from the government wants to comment. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-12-05-247	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. The Government supports the proposal and we ask our fellow Members to adopt it tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-12-05-248	Thank you. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Agriculture Committee. So now, the speeches of the Members of the Council will follow if anyone pushes a button. [[There's no such signal.]] [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see a candidate. So I'm gonna ask you if anyone else wants to speak in the remaining time frame. (No such indication.) No one's reporting. The debate is closed. I would like to ask the author again if he would like to comment. Congressman Puddle? [[János Pócs says no.]] He doesn't want to. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, It follows from the 2015 CXLIII on public procurement. The Commission's reports on the amendment of law and related laws and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal. Government referral T/12738. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey.
u2016-12-05-249	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby inform the Parliament that on 1 December 2016 the House Rule 46. According to §2 of the Acting Committee, the 2015 CXLIII on public procurement was discussed by the Legislative Committee. Act T/12738 amending certain related laws The Committee presented a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 25 votes in favour, 5 votes against and 5 abstentions. The summarised amendment contains, on the one hand, a proposal for an amendment to the Committee on Economic Affairs closing a detailed debate, as well as a proposal by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, which clarifies the committee's text in one point. I would like to highlight some of the substantive amendments supported by the Legislative Committee. For example, in the current case-law, there is a problem in dealing with the situation where the data relating to the contracting authorities are assessed, but the data on the reading sheet are not adequately supported by the documents attached to the tender. At present, the extent to which such errors can be replaced or the legal consequences of the deviation from the data is disputed in practice. The amendment introduces a bridging solution to address this situation, which ensures compliance with the principles on the one hand and, on the other hand, takes account of the interest in allowing as many offers as possible to participate in the further procedure. Taking into account the social comments submitted to the bill, it provides for an facilitation for businesses. The electronic signature of the declaration of interest in the procedure is no longer required in the national procedure. The legislator took into account that this statement does not, by its nature, require compliance with the credibility requirements such as the submission of an offer or an application for participation. At the same time, the procedural participation of businesses will be significantly facilitated if they are able to express their interest in the procedure in a simple e-mail. In addition, according to the summarised amendment proposal, the contracting authority may know, not in summary information, but in the breakdown of tenders or requests for participation, which economic operators have sent the invitation to initiate the procedure on their own initiative. The amending proposal takes into account that the indication of economic operators in summary information may lead to practices distorting competition on the market. It is very important that the proposed amendment intends to go back to the regulation before November 2015 on the payment of the compensation at the express request of chambers and business representative organisations rather than the institution for direct payments by subcontractors. Accordingly, at the level of the implementing regulation, a two-stage payment of the main contractor would replace the current rules. According to the feedback, it is a problem that the current rule is difficult to apply in practice; contracting authorities have to manage many contracts; the timing of the payment of subcontractors does not coincide with the payment schedule of the main contract, so that some subcontractors can obtain their money even later. Taking into account the position of the norm text, the chambers and the business associations, it also states that, in the case of works, the aggregate share of subcontractors' performance should not exceed 65% of the value of the contract. The reason for the amendment is that, on the basis of feedback from domestic companies, the 50 per cent sub-contracting restriction is detrimental to domestic small and medium-sized enterprises, given the large number of small enterprises specialised in construction works that typically act as subcontractors in the performance of construction works. The additional TAB's own motion clarifies the concept of aid. The clarification clarifies that the tax concession which the taxpayer may apply as a tax relief does not fall within the scope of the aid Kbt. in the sense of Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No The amendments adopted also show that the legislator is trying to make procurement procedures more entrepreneurial, broadening the range of tenderers, thereby increasing the country's competitiveness. I call on my fellow Members to support the amendment. Thank you so much for listening. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-12-05-250	I will ask the author, Mr Nándor Csepreghy, if he wishes to comment. [[For signal:]] He says he doesn't want to comment right now. I would like to ask my fellow Members if they would like to speak, as the Economic Committee has not set up a rapporteur. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any activity. I'm guessing that the Secretary of State Csepreghy doesn't want to respond to the non-existent speeches either. [[Nándor Csepreghy says no.]] The debate is therefore closed. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the Hungarian Corvin Chain Board and the final amendment proposal follow up. Government referral T/12914. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai.
u2016-12-05-251	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee discussed T/12914 on the Hungarian Corvin Chain Board at its meeting on 1 December 2016. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution 46. By 27 votes in favour, 7 votes against and no abstentions. During the committee meeting, we discussed the amendments made by the Committee on Culture and the Legislative Committee. The amended text of the amended text, as well as the technical amendments aimed at leaving the redundant provision and in order to ensure the coherence of the legal system, is included in the amended text. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the Parliament's support for the proposal, which sets itself the goal of setting up the Hungarian Corvin Chain Board on the basis of the approval and decision of the legislation. I believe that the functioning of the public body can contribute to the quality of the special public tasks; due to its organisational and operational characteristics, it can adapt flexibly and easily to current challenges. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]] [[18.20]]
u2016-12-05-252	I will ask Mr Nándor Csepreghy, State Secretary, if he wishes to comment as rapporteur. [[For signal:]] It says no. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. I ask my fellow Members if anyone would like to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed. I don't suppose the Secretary of State would like to comment at the end. [[Nándor Csepreghy indicates that he does not wish to comment.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports for the presentation of official statistics and the discussion of the draft amending proposal are now under way. Government referral T/12924. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I will also give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Duna.
u2016-12-05-253	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I inform the Parliament that on 1 December 2016 the house rules are 46. According to §8 of the Acting Committee, T/12924 on official statistics was discussed by the Legislative Committee. The Committee submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary of the amendment by 21 votes in favour, 7 against and 2 abstentions. The summarised amendment contains, on the one hand, the text of the Judicial Committee closing a detailed debate with two corrections in the place of language and, on the other hand, the TAB's own motion. The summarised amendment introduces technical clarifications on the proposed legislation, fully preserving the original objectives of the Government as a national. As an EU measure, Regulation (EC) No 223/2009 will be amended because both the European institutions and national authorities intend to increase the professional and institutional independence of national statistical offices in order to ensure the reliability of statistics at European level and to produce data on real economic and social processes that are guaranteed by independent, neutral and objective statistical offices throughout Europe. Thank you very much for the attention of this House. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-05-254	I will ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to comment as rapporteur. [[On the signal of Nándor Csepreghy:]] It says no. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. I'm asking if anyone here would like to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed, and I think the rapporteur will no longer comment. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, It follows from the 1997 CXL on museum institutions, public library provision and public education. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. T/12922 submitted by MEPs János Lázár, János Halász and Mónika Duna The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Once again, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai.
u2016-12-05-255	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee discussed T/12922 on 1 December 2016. on museum institutions, public library provision and public education, 1997 CXL. a bill amending the law, and in this context, the House Rule 46. It adopted a report with 21 votes in favour, 6 votes against and 5 abstentions and a summary amendment proposal. The amended amendment adopted contains the proposal of the Committee on Culture for a technical amendment covering a point and an oral amendment consisting of two points. These are the following: point 1 of this contains language accuracy, and in point 2, a substantive interpretation clause was adopted by the Legislative Committee, which happens to be the text of the bill 2. In Article 38/D, the text is added before the order in which it is to be held. In other words, the text set out in Section 2 of this Article refers back to the fact that the delegation provision is intended only to establish the rules for the granting of possession under the law. Ladies and gentlemen, In conclusion, the amendment therefore provides for the possibility that, if the acquisition of property by the State or by a group of cultural objects held in public collections held by local or state authorities has already been legally fulfilled, but subsequently there are reasonable circumstances which justify the use of the property or set of assets by the person concerned, the State may decide to do so with appropriate safeguards. I'd like your support for this, please. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-05-256	Thank you. I will ask the congresswoman if she wishes to comment as rapporteur. [[Mónika Dunai indicates that he does not wish to comment.]] But I guess not, so thank you. I'll ask if anyone from the government wants to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] No application. We now have speeches from Members. I give the floor to Congresswoman Loránt, Mrs Hegedűs.
u2016-12-05-257	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, When this bill was a general debate here, the problem arose that this term, which, in the context of circumstances that give special appreciation, was too broad a framework, and therefore, in accordance with his promises, he said that they would be completely open to receiving various text-focusing proposals. At the time, I made and formulated a proposal to clarify the text in the sense that it was only and only under the conditions of the XX. In the case of the victims of the 16th century's sorcers, it may arise at all, because remember that the preceding phase of the same passage of the law is about the use of borrowed cultural goods, which revealed that Árpád Habony has a very wide kinship and that he is very fond of XVIII-XIX. The paintings of the century, especially Dürer, and they could have been used under fair conditions and for a reasonable amount of money, the treasures kept in the Museum of Fine Arts. Therefore, in order not to be such abusive cases - and the Secretary of State also said that Minister Lazarus is the chairman or member of this particular committee, and he considers it particularly important that precisely because of the abuses that took place after World War II and the circumstances that are difficult to justify now, this bill should be, you have practically given your word that this kind of focus would be possible. I do not understand that, although we submitted this proposal, we submitted it in time, the Legislative Committee wiped it out. What is the reason for this? Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-05-258	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed. I will ask Mrs Mónika Dunai if she wishes to comment. [[Mónika Dunai:]] It says no. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Next up is the 2004 II on motion picture. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Government referral T/12925. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai.
u2016-12-05-259	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The Legislative Committee on 1 December 2016 is the House Rule 46. T/12925. 2004 II on motion picture A bill amending the Act was tabled by the Committee with 21 votes in favour, 9 votes against, with no abstentions, and a summary report. [[18.30]] At the committee's meeting, we discussed the legislative committee's own amendment aimed at both legal and substantive amendments. In addition to the technical amendments, the proposed summary amendment amends the penalty applicable to the non-payment deadline for the professional training contribution of the film. The Hungarian National Film Fund Zrt. The maximum amount of deposits that can be made to your deposit account is determined by a government decree issued under the authorisation of the Motion Picture Act from 2017, with the aim of increasing the framework of the deposit account for 2016 in such a way that the Hungarian National Film Fund Zrt. in addition to the amount laid down in the Act on Motion Picture, you are entitled to receive grants to the deposit account. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support the objective set out in the proposal, which strengthens the strategic sectors, including, of course, Hungarian film production. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-05-260	Thank you. I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Csaba Dömötör, if he wishes to speak. [[On the signal of Csaba Dömötör:]] It says no. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. Now, there would be speeches from Members, if someone were to press a button. [[No one's reporting.]] But no one's doing it. So the debate is closed, and I think that, as a rapporteur, the Secretary of State does not want to react either. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the general administrative procedure and the summary amendment proposal are now under discussion. The government referral T/12233. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre.
u2016-12-05-261	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/1223 on 1 December of this year. The draft law on general administrative regulations, tabled by the Committee with 22 votes in favour, 7 against and 4 abstentions, presented an amendment and a summary report. The summarised amendment contains the motion of the Judicial Committee and the legislative committee's own proposals for amendments, some of which I would like to talk about. Several points of the amendment closing the in-depth debate were also supported by our committee, but there was a need for clarification on several points due to an IT error in the summarised amendment proposal. Furthermore, by clarifying the rule on the obligation to tell the truth, the norm becomes easy to interpret. The amendment brings consistency to the T/12234 on the Administrative Rules. It is necessary to provide for the opening of a bill, its terminology and, accordingly, the possibility of initiating an administrative action. In addition, the official designation of the law in other legislation. Ákr. It shall bear a name after the entry into force. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal covers a widely agreed, well prepared technical material, which I ask my fellow Members to adopt. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-05-262	As rapporteur, I would like to ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, if he would like to comment now. [[Dr. Pál Völner says no.]] He says he doesn't want to comment right now. The speeches will now take place, and I give the floor to Mr Csaba Gyüre.
u2016-12-05-263	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, when this bill came here, the most important question was whether such a new law was needed. When the Minister spoke about this in his opening speech, at the beginning of the general debate, he said that there would be three laws, which would be an integral part of each other, which would also be submitted, but one of which was not included, which I think, from the point of view of the governing parties and the question of whether there is a need for a new administrative order, a general administrative order, was influenced by this third law in itself, as it would have been a whole. We said that Jobbik said from the beginning that we are not believers in the fact that there is no need for a new administration system in Hungary, in the event that the government's presentation is good and that we see that the system will be better than the old system, of course we support it. However, at the moment we did not see that this would indeed have been better than the current system, or part of it, which was two-thirds, to which the opposition has always said that it will not vote, and none of the opposition parties have given in on this issue, because we believe that this would have raised such important questions concerning the rule of law that would have taken away the faith in the rule of law from the Hungarian people, and that this two-thirds piece of legislation was finally left out, and we do not think it should be supported in itself. Therefore, Jobbik Hungary's Movement also expressed its position in the general debate, Gábor Staudt and myself in the speaker's speech on several points in this regard, and we also did not support it at the Legislative Committee's meeting, on behalf of the Jobbik Hungary Movement, at the meeting to which my fellow Member Imre Vas referred, we abstained, and that is our position at the moment, and we will abstain on this matter. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-05-264	I wonder if any of my fellow Members would like to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see a candidate. The debate is therefore closed. I will ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, if he wishes to comment. [[Dr. Pál Völner: No, thank you.]] No, it's a sign that he didn't. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. We now have the Commission's reports on the submission of administrative proceedings and the debate on the draft amending proposal. The government referral T/12234. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. The debate will also be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre.
u2016-12-05-265	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I inform the Parliament that on 1 December 2016 the house rules are 46. Under Section T/12234, the Legislative Committee has negotiated the T/12234. The Committee presented a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 22 votes in favour, 6 against and 3 abstentions. The summarised amendment covers the legislative committee's proposals of 108 points, mainly containing technical specifications. I would like to point out, among the amendments to the content, that the summary amendment defines the administrative and labour court as a general court in administrative matters, acting in the first instance, and designates it as a court in the upper administrative court. The amendment clarifies that a single court procedure is, in principle, ordered by the law in the first instance; on the basis of a supplement, a single judge also acts in the first instance in cases in which the applicant's place of residence is the court of residence for the purposes of determining the jurisdiction of the court. The summary amendment proposal complements the rule on the establishment of the five-member council of the Curia on a proposal from the Curia, given the large volume of border litigation, such as administrative contracts or public service law. Where justified by the nature of the case, no more than two non-administrative judges may be members of the five-member council of the Curia. On the basis of the OBH's observations, the rule concerning an expert seconded to the previous procedure is added in order to ensure that the role of the expert seconded to the trials and the same probative power of his opinion as the expert seconded in the case is ensured only in respect of the seconded judicial expert and his expert opinion. [[18.40]] As I have mentioned, the Ministry of Justice has also conducted a very wide consultation with the parliamentary groups - of course only those that met the Minister's invitation - with the Curia and the National Court Office. After that, we can rightly hope that the 21st century will be able to achieve the same goal as the 21st century. The modern bill, which meets the 100th century challenge, contributes to the rapid and effective conduct of administrative procedures, such as administrative litigation. Thank you for listening. Please vote in favour of the adoption of the bill. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-12-05-266	Thank you. I will ask Paul Völner, as rapporteur, if he would like to comment now. [[For signal:]] It says no. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. We now have speeches from Members. I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyure.
u2016-12-05-267	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. This is again the same bill as the previous one, and the opinion of the Jobbik Movement for Hungary was the same as in the previous bill. This bill is also part of the threefold package that I spoke about in my previous speech, which I have already said that we also have questions as to whether there is a need for a new administration of justice and a system of justice in Hungary. My fellow Member, Imre Vas, mentioned a wide-ranging social consultation and referred to the fact that he had also been consulted with the parliamentary groups. Indeed, it is true, so in the autumn a five-party discussion was held, which involved four parties. But in this context, I would also like to say what seemed a bit backward to me, namely when the opinions of the rectors and deans of universities were presented by the Minister of Justice; it was therefore clear that this law was not an opinion, but rather a general opinion on the development of the Hungarian system of public administration, with which, of course, everyone agrees in principle. So they did not agree with this law when they said an opinion, but with a more advanced administration system, which neither they nor we are convinced to believe is a truly more advanced system; especially given that the system that would have stood up at the beginning of September brought a system that would have taken judgment much further from the citizen, would have been much further away if it had been introduced in all its elements, even hundreds of kilometers of travel for a trial, a first instance trial for clients. However, it also criticises the fact that it reduces the possibility of a review at the Curia, which, I think, is quite a violation of the right granted to citizens in the Fundamental Law, which gives citizens the right to appeal. In view of all this, we have already said in the general debate and in the speech of the lead speaker to my colleague Gábor Staudt that the Movement for Jobbik Hungary does not support these laws, the laws relating to public administration. Since this is a debate by the Commission and in the Commission debate the Jobbik Movement for Hungary decided to abstain, we abstained when a decision was taken on this in the Legislative Committee, and we will do the same in tomorrow's vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-05-268	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the agenda. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see a candidate. The debate is closed. I will ask Mr. Pál Völner if he wishes to comment. It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-12-05-269	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to answer the question raised by my fellow Member, Csaba Gyüre, which is true for both laws, that we have actually participated in these five-party coordinators. I recall that the subject of discussion was around the establishment of administrative courts, and the Jobbik indicated precisely in the two-thirds section that he would have other needs if he accepted these amendments or modifications. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: That's right.]] So I feel that, in the substance of the law, a kind of debate where there would have been sharp contradictions did not take place, although we naturally respect Jobbik's abstaining position. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-12-05-270	Thank you. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. It is now up to LVII of 1996 on the prohibition of unfair market behaviour and restrictions on competition. Act XLVII of 2008 on the prohibition of unfair commercial practices against consumers The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Government referral T/12718. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. The position of the Legislative Committee shall be the first to be heard in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre.
u2016-12-05-271	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, At the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 1 December 2016, the members discussed the 1996 LVII on the prohibition of unfair market conduct and restrictions on competition. Act XLVII of 2008 on the prohibition of unfair commercial practices against consumers T/12718 amending Act No. About bill No. 1. The board of the house rules 46. It submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 23 votes in favour, no votes against and 7 abstentions. The draft amending proposal contains a five-point proposal from the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Legislative Committee, which includes the following: point 4 of the proposal, which defines the concept of a direct and indirect buyer, is justified in order to ensure consistency in the application of the law and to avoid problems with the application of the law. Point 5 of the proposal clarifies the date on which the limitation period is to be applied and is intended to ensure full compliance with the directive to be transposed by clarifying that the limitation period will not only occur if the competition authority takes a decision, but also if the procedure is terminated in another way. Ladies and gentlemen, The adoption of the bill is necessary in order to comply with Hungary's obligation to transpose the Competition Compensation Directive and the administrative burden on businesses can be reduced by the entry into force of the merger rules facilitating bureaucracy reduction. Please agree to support this proposal. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-12-05-272	Thank you. I will ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, if he wishes to comment as rapporteur. [[For signal:]] It says no. No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. There are speeches coming up, but I don't see any candidates. So I'm closing the debate. I'll ask the Secretary of State if you'd like to comment. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. We now have the Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws relating to electronic communications and consumer protection and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. Government referral T/12733. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. The debate will also be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Hadházy.
u2016-12-05-273	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I hereby inform you that the Legislative Committee on 24 November 2016 is the House Rule 46. T/12733 on the amendment of certain laws relating to electronic communications and consumer protection The Committee presented a proposal for amendment and a summary report containing 25 yes and 7 abstentions, i.e. no vote against. The summarised amendment contains the points of the Commission's amendment closing the detailed debate, with the exception of one. The Socialist Party's initiative was not supported by the Legislative Committee, which proposed that only serious cases should be imposed on the Consumer Protection Authority for illegal online stores. [[18.50]] I would like to emphasise that fines for businesses cannot be a primary objective, but that there must be an adequate level of protection for consumers. This is particularly true when it comes to e-commerce, which is growing in a leap, and as the holidays get closer, more and more people are using these services. It is important that the authority cannot punish the first time, only after the irregular, misleading company refuses to correct the error. The fine may relate only to the same error in which the parties have already been consulted in advance and no correction has been made. As was said at the committee meeting, the increase in the fine, which took place on the proposal of the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, could eliminate misleading practices. Dear Parliament, It also protects the interests of consumers, and an annoying practice can be prevented by the rule contained in the amendment which states that telephone customer services must begin to deal with the merits within five minutes of the call. I hope that in the future the complainants will be less nervous about solving a problem. At the committee meeting, the representative of the Government stated that he was dealing comprehensively with the situation of contracts after the end of the loyalty period and the fate of subscriber fees in this regard. It is in the interests of consumers and our competitiveness that by the end of 2018, a super-fast broadband network covering the whole country will be established. This is also the purpose of the proposal before us, and I therefore respectfully ask for your support. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-05-274	Thank you. As rapporteur, I would like to ask Secretary of State László Tasó if he would like to comment now. It says no. The designated Economic Committee did not set up a rapporteur, so here are some speeches from its representatives, but no one wants to live with it now, so the debate is closed. Obviously, I'll ask Mr. Taso if he wants to comment at the end. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-12-05-275	Dear Parliament, The bill and the proposed amendment are in line with the government's position, and I therefore respectfully ask the Parliament to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you for the floor. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-05-276	Thank you very much. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain transport-related laws and the discussion of the draft amending proposal follow up. Government referral T/12742. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. The debate will, of course, be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee. I give the floor to Dénes Pigeon, rapporteur of the committee.
u2016-12-05-277	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby inform the Parliament that on 1 December 2016 the Legislative Committee is the House Rule 46. T/12742. The Committee presented a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 20 votes in favour, 6 against and 3 abstentions. The summarised amendment contains the legislative committee's own proposals, a point which corrects the proposal of the Economic Committee to close a detailed debate. In addition to legal technical and codification clarifications, the amending proposal allows the members of the State Fish Guard Service to be transported by a small ship powered by an internal combustion engine in water areas where it is otherwise prohibited in order to ensure an adequate level of national surveillance. The reason for this seemingly not significant, but significant, regulation is that in areas where we have set the objective of allowing the possibility of using electric-powered craft, where this is not possible even according to the current state of the art, it was justified to allow them to use small explosive motor vessels. The importance of this is that fish farming is of particular national interest, and prevention and prevention in this respect should provide appropriate means for the service. The purpose of the summarised amendment is also to establish, during the expropriation procedure, an amount of compensation for the withdrawal of property ownership, involving an expert, which allows the actual establishment of the value of the property, independent of zoning, for the purpose of achieving public interest objectives, reflecting fair value. Thus, it can be avoided that, as a result of the zoning amendment, the person requesting the expropriation may receive a higher amount of compensation than the actual one. In addition, the owners of the property subject to expropriation are gradually subject to the expropriation Act 9. The fundamental right, as defined and enshrined in the Fundamental Law, to receive and apply full, immediate and unconditional compensation for the withdrawal of ownership, since any depreciation due to changes in zoning standards is not to be enforced in a lengthy special procedure governed by the Law on the Shaping and Protection of the Built Environment. The amending proposal makes it clear, with a transitional provision complying with the constitutional requirements, that the new rule on the valuation of real estate should apply only in cases that have taken place after entry into force. In the context of the objective set out by the bill, the amendment aims to further strengthen the rights of both owners and users of property requiring expropriation, to establish regulation, to make it transparent, to ensure the unity of the legal system and to meet the content requirements of the Fundamental Law, and therefore to comply with house rules. With the adoption of the proposal, in a legislative environment relating to transport, whether used cars, shipping or rail or investment in transport infrastructure, the need for legal certainty and predictability can be even more fully implemented. In view of all this, I ask for your support and the adoption of the bill. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-05-278	Thank you. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély applied for a minority opinion, but since he is not here, we move on. I will ask Mr. László Tasó, as rapporteur, if he would like to comment now. [[For signal:]] At the end, all right, thank you. No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. We now have speeches from Members. I give the floor to Congressman Ander Balázs.
u2016-12-05-279	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Well, I must say, it is a sin to present this bill to us in this form. It is a sin because there have been a lot of well-intentioned and really eligible proposals from Jobbik in this regard, as I said earlier in the debate. However, there are two points that we simply cannot swallow, and I think that the parallels or the railway tracks will meet somewhere infinity before our opinion, our different, very, very different opinions on this issue. One of these is the amendment of the 2006 law, which concerns the acceleration and simplification of investments of major importance for the national economy. We wanted this to be abandoned or substantially revised as it is, because in this form, we have to say that this can at any time become a gift to our friends or to a beneficiary multinational in such a way that they are freed from all competition in the market, and they can practically do what they want and do what they want to do. Investments on which we have had quite a few speeches are becoming permanent. When, with just one pen stroke, say, HUF 25 billion, projects are pushed that are linked to the name of the national gas mechanic or polyhistorian, I believe that it is not unfounded for the opposition to have such reservations. Historical legends, urban legends could be brought here about the horrors of man when we read, say, this amendment of the law, this bill. [[19.00]] It was possible to hear such things as the Tsar Father, when he got tired of arguing about where, how to build the railway line between Moscow and St. Petersburg, then he grabbed the ruler, drew a line with a sudden motion, but his finger just slipped in, and there was a strange little corner in the railway line. Or in connection with this, the historical legend is that the Moscow subway ring was designed in no other way than that Stalin laid the bottom of his coffee cup and left the mark on the map. If we have looked at this here, we must conclude that if Viktor Orbán, who is in this form... - because here they could make decisions by almost a regulation on the basis of which, let us say, the small railway to the Buda Castle is extended, we cannot say yes with a good heart, which is why we will not accept, and which is an additive in this connection, social, professional and even municipal control. This will be fully withdrawn, negligated by local governments, they can practically shut down the blinds, they will have no say in these projects. The story related to the other and today's events is the issue of railway safety. In the other part of the bill, you intend to encrypt data on public rail trains on the grounds of the threat of terrorism or on grounds of the prevention of criminal offences. Here, too, the criticism may be justified that, where appropriate, it will be possible to hide crimes. So we can't say yes to this either, because if you really take it seriously, Mr Secretary of State, what you're saying here on the level of words, paper or even verbally, you could also take care of railway safety in such a way as to meet the demands of railway officers on strike these days. When, in the social-liberal period, the MÁV was practically almost destroyed, outsourcing took place, Jobbik and the national radicals rejected it. When the opposite process began, a kind of railway integration, we could naturally welcome it. Now, in this segment of railway events, we are once again experiencing the start of such a outsourcing process, and I am not saying it, but trade unions, trade union leaders and workers in the sector, who are afraid that they may soon end up on the streets, or the benefits they now have as employees of the MÁV will be lost. There was a reason for protesting in Székesfehérvár, and this Friday the petition was handed over to the Ministry of National Development, in which these railway guards spoke against outsourcing or planned outsourcing. This is a multi-billion-dollar market, and if this process continues, because there are so many areas that can be observed, this has already been outsourced, obviously there is no need to go beyond what kind of friendly and, where appropriate, politically-connected main contractors won these tenders, and if we raise the problems here, then the answer is that the MÁV or the Hungarian State can no longer intervene in the affairs of subcontractors, and they cannot do anything about the fact that in many cases the Code of Work is no more than a paper rag. Because you have to see how they work, how they employ these railway guards, and then we understand that these criticisms are not out of the blue, they are not unfounded at all. When we are talking about 72-hour straight-out services here, it is a good question of what will happen to the restraint, what will happen to the safety of the performing MAV personnel, and what will happen to the great railway safety at all. This should also be taken here, taken much more seriously, where appropriate, the MÁV or even the public actors should have the opportunity, to exercise their right to be subject to labour supervision on these often fraudulent and damaging subcontractors of the Hungarian state, who exploit ordinary workers to the full. This sector should be kept within the railway, and, where appropriate, these jobs would also be useful in the area of rehabilitation employment, as those MÁV workers who are no longer able to meet the strict occupational health standards that are otherwise legitimate could fill these jobs calmly, and not with the picked-up people of all kinds of asset-keeping subcontractors, should, in many cases, carry out these very important tasks with their otherwise incredibly exploited, wasted people, such as object-watching or coaching. The question here is crucial, and I think it is absolutely right to say that this fair trade union complaint and this demonstration will be politically and professionally responsible within the MÁV. Will they name, Mr. Secretary, the man or the people who caused these anomalies to develop, which are why these railroad workers fear for their future? Thank you very much. I look forward to your substantive answers. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-05-280	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary of State László Tasó.
u2016-12-05-281	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I enjoy listening to my fellow Member, Mr Ander Balázs, every time because he is prepared. [[Ander Balázs: Thank you very much.]] It has meticulous and truly diverse knowledge. That, by the way, impresses me, I'll tell you the truth. And, of course, I must add that there are some thoughts that I will consider occasionally, and I will try to consider the next time to take action so that I may use them. Now, in particular, the bill before us, which contains 11 amendments, is less related to what has been said, although it is certainly possible to highlight its major elements. I'd be trying to resolve the concerns if I can, if I can, if I can, if I can't, I can't. After all, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is absolutely no intention of the legislators in any way to hide something from the public or to hide something that might be capable of carrying out crimes. There is no such intention, never such intention of the legislators. I don't think there's ever going to be any intention in this House, I wouldn't assume this about anyone who's sitting here, and I think that's something that needs to be stated, however, that the intention is clearly improving. With regard to technical data, I think that it is necessary to consider in today's world when we are preparing for Mars, or in just three seconds we will be directing the next expedition to the Moon if it turns out that there is a danger of knowing all technical parameters without limitation. It should always be added that there was no and no public procurement at all, that the rules have not been amended, that in this respect there is no such thing as not knowing information of public interest that could have been known before the adoption of this law. It's not in there. I am very sensitive about your opinion on local governments, as I was mayor for 20 years, and I know how demanding the municipalities are and how much they require the opportunity to give an opinion on large investments as well. However, this amendment also does not take anything away from them, as all major transport developments before it are included in county spatial planning and spatial development concepts and plans. This amendment is about whether, if the municipality does not do so and this would delay it, or do not deliberately want to take the chance or opportunity of carrying out an investment that is indeed of public interest and is indeed important, then it should be possible to intervene; but not to intervene in the municipal decree, because the Hungarian government cannot interfere with it. [[19.10]] It does not take away the right to establish a decree from the municipality. In this respect, there is absolutely no chance that you will actually touch it. You have not listed the positive elements, my fellow Member, but said that there are negative elements. But he didn't mention the positive elements, it would have been nice to mention that there are also positive elements. That's what I think, seeing his nod. I think that whatever malice we try to approach the legislative work, I think it is not possible to do it intentionally. We do not want evil on purpose, we want to achieve facilitations and simplifications, and this is what the amendment of the law is about. Therefore, with respect, I do ask that Jobbik consider whether it can support the adoption of the proposal as a whole, because it will not help to achieve the good and eligible objectives that my fellow Members mentioned earlier, even at the beginning of the debate. I would like to say with respect that I understand and really am sensitive to the fact that we cannot protect workers employed within the framework of any undertaking. There's a danger, and there's a danger, and it happens, and it's gonna happen. But it is also important to know that the best law in the world, which does not exist, but yet the strictest and most primordial law of its kind, cannot prevent wickedness, can not stop efforts that can really harm workers. Once again, we see, feel, try to create an obstacle by our own means. Hopefully, we'll succeed. By the way, my fellow Member, I really feel responsible for all of your life in the sector, because I have the opportunity to do so. So I think it's important that we do our job by taking care of it, and we sympathize when problems arise in some area. Thank you again, with respect, for your active involvement every time. I really enjoyed listening to your comments. However, at the end of the day, I am asking, since the Government's position is the same as the amendment proposal to support the adoption of the law by all Members of the Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-12-05-282	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. We now have the Commission's reports on the amendment of the energy legislation and the debate on the summary amendment proposal. The government referral T/12743. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Hadházy to present the position of the Legislative Committee.
u2016-12-05-283	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I hereby inform you that the Legislative Committee is the House Rule 46. On 24 November 2016, T/12743. on the amendment of the laws relating to energy The Committee submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report in addition to 22 yeses against 8 non-compounds. The summarised amendment contains, on the one hand, a proposal for an amendment to the Committee on Economic Affairs closing a detailed debate and, on the other hand, a proposal by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, which clarifies the committee's text in three points. The amendment proposals introduce technical clarifications and codification comments on the bill, which did not trigger a debate. The aim of the regulation is to bring EU law into line with domestic law by clarifying gas trading procedures and electricity trading procedures. I respectfully ask for your support. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-12-05-284	Thank you. I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. László Tasó, if you'd like to comment now. It says no. No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. There would now be speeches by Members, but there is no candidate at the moment. The debate is therefore closed. Secretary of State László Tasó wishes to comment at the end. Yeah, he's signaling. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-12-05-285	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, All I have to say is that since the Government's position is in line with the summarised amendment proposal, I respectfully ask that the Parliament support its adoption. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-12-05-286	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. We now have the Commission's reports on the national tourism development proposal and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. The government referral is T/12737. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. The debate will also be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee. I give the floor to Congressman Dénes Pigeon.
u2016-12-05-287	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I inform the Parliament that on 1 December 2016 the Legislative Committee is the House Rule 46. T/12737 on the development of national tourism has been discussed in accordance with Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union. and the committee submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report containing 21 votes in favour, 5 negative votes against and no abstentions. The summarised amendment contains a 12-point proposal from the Economic Committee. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that this amendment changes the title of the bill, as the title on state tasks in the development of tourism areas expresses the real purpose and content of the text. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the legislation is to ensure that the tourism destination, i.e. the tourism area, is the basic design unit for tourism development in the future. The bill states that the planning of tourism developments from the domestic budget and from European Union sources is the responsibility of the State and that the basic unit of tourism planning is the relevant tourist reception area. It defines the general concept of tourist destination, i.e. the tourism area, the purpose of the development and the recipient of responsibility for the basic public tasks related to the development of destination. I consider it to be a very important clarification rule that the aim of 100% state-owned companies aimed at achieving investment in tourism cannot be profit-making, so they can only operate in a non-profit form. We have a major bill before us, honourable Members, one of the fundamental aims of which is to bring order to the conceptual system of the area, to eliminate the anomalies that have so far been found in this regard. It has been difficult so far to define categorization, what developments we mean by regional and regional development. I think that the task of filling these conceptual principles and state tasks with content is the next period. In this respect, the Fidesz Group has also set itself the task of dealing with this further regulation in the spring period after the adoption of the bill. I ask that, by discussing the report of the Legislative Committee, conceptual systems and the preparation of the body are adopted as laws, and that the bill be supported by their votes. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-12-05-288	Thank you. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he'd like to comment now or later. All right, thank you. No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. We now have speeches from Members. Congressman Lajos Kepli has the floor.
u2016-12-05-289	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the general debate, we have already made our main comments on the bill, which were both positive and negative. Therefore, I do not intend to repeat this. We agree and it is very important that the resources allocated for tourism be allocated properly and that a region, a target area, can be developed with a focus on tourist destination areas. That is why we will support the bill in the vote. I was particularly pleased to raise it during the general debate on the summary amendment, although at that time one of our fellow Members criticized why I was dealing with this, whether there could not be a more Hungarian term instead of the term destination. It was replaced by the law in every place where he was. I think it is a positive step forward, with regard to the care of the Hungarian language, even if it is not professional, but it is definitely a positive element of the summarised amendment proposal. Apart from that, obviously the test of pudding is eating. The fact that these resources will be distributed will not be determined by this law, but by practice. This is what, based on the practice of the Orbán government so far, raises some doubt about us. [[19.20]] But obviously we will be on the lookout, we will keep our eyes open, and we will continue to monitor the government in this regard as an opposition, which is, of course, our task. This bill may include the fact that Hungarian tourism can start to boom if these resources are properly spent and transferred on the basis of this law, and it is not, as usual, in the hands and hands of entrepreneurs, oligarchs and other background people near the government, but is not concentrated there. If, indeed, according to the law, it goes into those named destinations and actually invests in real investment, whether it is a job creation or a job-building project or other tourism infrastructure improvements, then it will certainly be a positive change for us, too. But I'll tell you again, time will decide that we're still on the lookout. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-05-290	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else wants to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary of State László Tasó.
u2016-12-05-291	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, All I ask with respect is that you support the proposal received and support the amendments. I propose to you the adoption of the summary amendment. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-12-05-292	Thank you. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain energy laws for price regulation purposes and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. T/12923 submitted by representatives of István Németh Szilárd and Dénes Galambos The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, in the debate, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented by MEP László Vécsey. You have the floor.
u2016-12-05-293	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/12923 on 1 December 2016. a bill amending certain energy laws for price regulation purposes and, in this context, the House Rule 46. It adopted a report with 21 votes in favour, 6 against and 3 abstentions and a summary amendment proposal. The amended amendment, which was adopted, contains its own amendment, registered under reference No 1 of the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Legislative Committee, for which some parts of the committee's position have been overwritten and revised. It should be noted that this step was only necessary to achieve consistency. Ladies and gentlemen, I would stress that the proposal to be adopted is primarily aimed at maintaining the absolute value and impact of the reduction of the overhead, and what is more, in view of the results achieved, we can continue the process. In addition to stressing the important objective, and to that end, I would ask my honourable Members, this House, to support the bill. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-05-294	Thank you. I'm going to ask Dénes Pigeon to comment now. [[Dr. Dénes Pigeon: No, at the end.]] At the end, all right. Thank you. I'll ask if the Secretary of State would like to speak to him. It says no. No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. Now we're going to hear from the representatives. I give the floor to Congressman László Szakács.
u2016-12-05-295	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, What a turn of the world in six months! It was not long ago that this House negotiated similar legislation, and on 17 May this year, when your lead speaker was Gábor Bányai. At the time, the House decided not to set the system usage fee by regulation, but by decision, to avoid an EU infringement procedure. Then it was brought before this House, which was precisely the reverse of this proposal, so that the system usage fee could be determined from a regulation to a decision-making method. To explain to everyone the difference: one can be attacked before a proper court and the other can only be attacked before the Constitutional Court. But how much the world is changing: Gábor Bányai said on 17 May that he could ask about this proposal whether there is a threat to the reduction of the rent, my answer is that the provisions do not affect the relevant provisions of the regulatory law. That's what you said on May 17th this year. Our position is that it really doesn't matter, and that this is a simple communication trick, a communication circus that they want to cover up another one they don't want to talk about. What are we talking about here? We are talking about setting the system usage charge or the official price in the energy authority regulation or decision. We always insist that this should be a form of decision, let the government believe that a well-functioning office will set these official prices, and the decisions of this well-functioning office may stand trial if such is necessary or necessary. What are these official prices? It is always possible to set the highest official price. This means that the highest price can be fixed, whether in the form of a decision or in the form of a regulation. What does that mean? The fact that gas cannot be supplied in Hungary at a higher rate, but at a lower rate, yes. What the government could do is simply that if it wanted to protect the benefits of the reduction of the rent - which, in our view, are otherwise considered to be significant successes - it would give the majority of the state-owned Main Gas to retail consumers at a lower rate than this maximum price. That would be possible, but I'll come back to that later, because that's the thing you're trying to cover up. What we are talking about here: these price-forming elements, the system usage fee, which is 34 percent of the price-forming element, and 48 percent of the price for gas, are system usage charges. We believe that if they continue to define this as a decision and not in the form of a regulation, they will not make a big mistake. You can see that this is important to you. You can see that this is important to you for something you want to cover up. We see that it does not make a big difference in its legal judgment, as it means that it has been possible to challenge this decision in a proper court, and now it will have to be challenged by the Constitutional Court if someone does not like it. You simply wish to make it difficult for any service provider to seek redress in respect of the system charge. It is also apparent that you want to know more about the rate of the system charge, because on the basis of this provision, under legal authority, Szilárd Németh and his associates will know better than the Energy Authority how much the system usage fee should be, and what price the residents should be charged. What we can tell you about Brussels is that you are afraid that nothing needs to be feared at this time, and the European Commission has long advocated the introduction of public prices, but this concerns trade prices, not system charges. What's the point of this whole circus? Why are you lying to Gábor Bányai or the Secretary of State of Aradski, who on May 17 made a very good argument against this bill? That's because you want to cover something up. They want to cover the fact that energy prices on the world market have been 40-60 percent lower for a year and a half than you can ensure for Hungarians. They do not want to enforce the world market trends that can now be called trends for Hungarian households, which have been going down for a year and a half - the world market prices of oil and gas have decreased between 60 and 40 percent - and you cannot or do not want to enforce them in Hungarian households. [[19.30]] That could explain two things. One of the reasons may be that we have won lawsuits in this case, and we have seen such articles before, is that Fidesz-close companies are somewhere between the wholesaler and the Hungarian state distributors, and they live happily and well. This may be where this huge difference occurs, not in Hungarian households. That is why we have come up with a proposal, which, by the way, today has been voted down by the Fidesz faction on the Economic Committee with no questions asked. The other option is that you, quite simply, have entered into a bad agreement with Russia. It may be that he set him up, if you like, in the gas pipe, Mr.Putin Orbán, and they made a bad agreement, and therefore today Hungarians have to pay more for energy than they should if world market trends were to be enforced. And another third thing. In 2005, the price of a barrel of oil was $50, and then in Hungary the price of a cubic meter of gas was HUF 50. Today there is no $50, maybe $42-45 a barrel of oil, and in Hungary the price of a cubic meter of gas is HUF 100. How does this mathematics add up to you? Who's the difference? Why doesn't the difference come down to Hungarian households? I think that these are the issues that you would like to cover up with this false debate, which, by the way, expose Hungary to another European Union procedure. I think that you could trust our own authority, the energy authority, more confidence in the service providers, but most of all I could help Hungarian households better, help Hungarian households to get the same favourable prices on the energy market as those traders who sell to you, but only someone who skims the profits. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-12-05-296	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli.
u2016-12-05-297	Thank you very much, Mr. President. During the debate on this bill, we have already expressed our view that we know exactly where the reduction of the rent was born as a political marketing product: somewhere in the area of the Habony works. We also know what the real part of this is, and what it is, polish, is political communication. With regard to the real part, we have always supported legislation on the reduction of the rent here in Parliament. The other part, which is purely for political communication purposes and for Fidesz to remain in power, we have never once supported it. When you came here to Parliament a few months ago to change the form of a decree into a form of decision the Hungarian energy agency's regulatory legislation for price regulation purposes, we said that we could not support this. We abstained quite precisely from the final vote, because the regulation gives us a stronger power either against Brussels or against any other process that might affect the maintenance of the price reduction, if this price reduction is at all seen by consumers, but this is a matter for another page. After all, in many cases Hungarian households have overall increased their overhead costs due to the increase in other costs. We have to say that every time we talk about it. The fact that we are now going to support this bill is precisely the reason why we think it was a bad idea to change the regulation's decision in the first place. You, with the support of the MSZP, have succeeded in transforming the regulation into a resolution, and now you will be able to reconstruct it with the support of Jobbik. Here, in the opposition, everyone has a firm position, and you are inclined to look exactly as the current circumstances call for it. And we can see, yes, the pressure on the part of Brussels, we can feel it. And we saw, didn't we, last week, that the energy directive or regulation came out of Brussels, or they said that in the future they would like a five-year lauffe, a transitional period, to lead the public prices out of the EU markets completely free market prices for energy and electricity prices, which is a European Union competence and not a Member State's competence. So this is primarily about gas and electricity charges. This is why we see here that we should actually use tools to better enforce the Hungarian national interest. In this respect, there is indeed a lot in common between Jobbik's energy programme and Fidesz's energy policy. We imagine Hungary's energy supply on a national basis. We are not inclined to see how the wind blows, we have an energy programme formulated in 2010 and 2014, which we continue to hold to, and we usually vote for every bill here in Parliament. In connection with the reduction of the rent, it is indeed true, as my socialist fellow Member said, that world market prices would have made it possible in recent years, when the world market price for natural gas and oil went down, to bring even higher prices, even more favourable for Hungarian households, in his regulation, or to secure this margin, and not for the service provider or anyone else to put it in their pocket, but for the Hungarian consumers. And indeed, the reduction of the overhead should be extended to a number of products or more such as firewood, since we also know that this heating mode is the most common in many homes in Hungary, or even in the poorest layers. Right now, they're out of the loop. And it is no longer what the government said a few months ago that I would like to reduce the burden of the population even further, but now it is just how we can defend the current situation against Brussels, who really wants to take away these benefits and make energy a free market for the whole of the Union. We have already seen this in the third energy package, the third energy package in the European Union, that this type of regulatory price regulation will not be sustainable in the long term. Of course, if this is really about getting energy cheaper for Hungarian households, then let's keep it as long as we can. But what is the main point of our criticism in parallel is that the government does not take measures that would allow Hungarian households, in the long term, to have cheaper bills not because of a printed public price, but because they have to use less energy. They need to use less electricity, less heat, less natural gas in the household, for example, because private individuals, households, are also allowed by the government to isolate their homes from European Union or domestic sources, modernise their building equipment and thus achieve a much more favourable cost of electricity and energy savings. This could not reduce household energy consumption by 10-20 percent, but by half. This would also be good because it would obviously also reduce Hungary's energy exposure and import dependency, so this is the only good investment in the long term. You can see that it's squeaking, creaking, creaking in all its gutters, this half-political marketing tool you've put together, called a reduction in the costs, half-legal. Even if we give support to the two-thirds laws to reduce the burden of the population by at least 10-20 percent, if they do not take steps to maintain this process in the long term, then it will collapse, and the Hungarian population will notice that the prices of energy sources are rising suddenly, not by 10 or 20 percent, but even by one and a half times, because prices are getting out of hand. Therefore, we would like to warn the government that, beyond the fact that they are now able to pull it out for a period of time and hours and keep the energy prices at this price level, take the necessary measures. Not just until the elections, not only until 2018 but also in the longer term, you should pay attention to the real interest of the Hungarian population, and because it is possible to achieve long-term sustainable processes, which are not intended for political purposes, not for a government cycle, not for four years, but also for decades in advance. If such measures are to be taken, we will also be very happy to support them. But even more likely, these measures will only take place after 2018 under a Jobbik government. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[19.40]]
u2016-12-05-298	Thank you. I would like to say to Mr László Szakács that there is no possibility of a two-minute comment, but if you are doing normal, you have a minute and you can use it. [[Dr. László Kács: I already pressed it, Mr. President.]] All right, you have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-12-05-299	I'm sorry, I don't want to tell you yet. I wanted to talk to you later.
u2016-12-05-300	There's no way to do it later, just now.
u2016-12-05-301	Understood. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I thought, listening to Jobbik's speech, that if they finally disagree with the legislation and the aim, why would they support it and if they did not consider it a sustainable course, then why would they support it. There's obviously another reason for that. There's one thing I wanted to discuss. What needs to be mentioned is the end of the week announcement that Szilárd Németh said. Szilárd Németh said that energy prices only increased by 9.7 percent, compared to 115 HUF in 2010, in 2012 the gas had 136 HUF cubic metres, this was 18 percent, and electricity prices increased not by 2.2 percent, but by 4 percent. This is your credibility in this matter. They raised the prices to a high level, and then sold it to the people under the name of reduced rent. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-12-05-302	Thank you. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli.
u2016-12-05-303	There is still some time frame left, so I would like to say again to my Socialist fellow Member and obviously to everyone who is here that, even though we do not agree with it or see that this process is not sustainable in the long term, and that the government is involved in a regulation of reduced, pressed public prices which is otherwise unsustainable in the long term, it does not mean that, at the moment, it is not necessary for us to keep doing so at least as long as it is possible to do so because of the European Union and other external pressures. If this requires the support of a two-thirds law, we will not look at party interests, but we will look at the possibility of maintaining this regulatory price regulation for another half a year or a year, which is not contrary to our principles. If someone looks back at Jobbik's program, 2010 and 2014, we said nothing but that prices must be regulated, and the state must have a say in this. It should not be left to the market in its entirety in respect of a service where the most sensitive social layers, the poorest, are the ones who are most likely to suffer the loss of energy prices. So there must be some kind of influence. We don't think it's the best tool, but at the moment we're not in the government, so we can't do anything else. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: For the moment! This moment should take a long time.]] It's not like we're helping a little bit of the survival of this patched-up system with our vote. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-05-304	Thank you. If there is no further intention of comment by other factions, the debate will be closed. I will ask Mr Dénes Pigeontos, as rapporteur, if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-12-05-305	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We had a debate on the agenda with my colleague László Szakács on the Economic Committee. [[Dr. László Kács: I talked and you didn't.]] . Referring back to his speech at the time, I would like to say once again my answer, which I said there at the time of the entry into the agenda in connection with the negotiation of the bill before the Economic Committee, which is likely to give me an answer as to why I am debating your position. I have said in my comment that I repeat now: the office, as the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, with its own regulatory powers - and I will now make a legal argument - is obviously able, in accordance with the legislative law, to quote the words of the Secretary of State Aradsk at the legislative committee meeting last week, to restore the old order, i.e. the order which was made six months ago, whether it refers to Gábor Bányai and what was said at that time in the debate. I also made a legal argument at the Economic Committee meeting, which I repeat, I repeated in the final debate. I am also making the legal argument because this is related to the strategic thinking that is now in the eyes of the government. My fellow Member, Mr Lajos Kepli, is of the opinion that it is to the point that, in the current situation when we are at a given stage of the energy strategy, it is not from the devil that we choose the more effective regulation of a decision and regulation by making changes. As a lawyer, it is a regulation for me, and it is not the office's ability to be examined here, because the office is able, as you have heard in your report before the Economic Committee, here the criterion of effectiveness is that regulation legislation has a faster response tool at the disposal of the government. I think that this responsible attitude should be the way for Members of Parliament, which is not about us having to pay attention to certain press releases or press releases. Then this debate will be held with my fellow Member, Szilárd Németh, at the appropriate time. I do not wish to agree to what my statement at the end of the week contained. I think he was exactly the one who, in due time, formulated the results that we have achieved through the reduction of the rent in the past period, and this was not a marketing activity, but a serious help in citizens' monthly accounts. I ask that we follow the direction in the debate that can help the government to define a calm and energy strategy. I myself admit that I am pro-regulative and that I supported the adoption of this bill as a member of the Economic Commission and as a rapporteur. With regard to the infringement procedure before the Union, if my fellow chef could look into a magic ball, I would be pleased, but I do not believe that they have such a capacity, in terms of the results of this infringement procedure Hungary will have. I can also take this risk from my point of view as a Member, because if rapid energy strategy measures are needed for a country, this is also necessary in the energy sector by means of regulation legislation. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-12-05-306	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken at a later meeting. Next up is the 2011 CXCV on public finances. The Commission's reports on the amendment of law and certain related laws and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal. The government referral is T/12736. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman László Salacz.
u2016-12-05-307	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The 2011 CXCV on public finances. The general debate on the amendment of law and certain related laws was held by this House on 11 November. I believe that the fact that neither its representatives nor the Commission's amendment came to the bill shows that we are talking about a positive proposal, hopefully supported by the opposition. Only the Legislative Committee has submitted a legislative and text-focusing amendment at the government's request. As the general debate has shown, the motion is essentially aimed at ensuring the legal coherence of public finances legislation, but also at proposing amendments to certain related laws. For example, it will be possible to convert the debts of municipal and municipal companies into favourable structures without a separate government licence. The proposal also clarifies that the Chapter Stability Reserve should be set up for new tasks and for the extension of tasks for the purpose of the body managing the chapter. The rules for the use of the Chapter Stability Reserve will be laid down by the Government in a separate regulation. In addition, the Central Bank Act is amended to extend the operation of the Financial Reconciliation Board. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that tomorrow all my fellow Members will support the 2011 CXCV on public finances. amendment of law. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-12-05-308	Thank you, Congressman. I would like to ask Mr Péter Benő Banai, State Secretary, if you would like to comment now. [[For signal:]] It says no. The designated budget committee did not set up a rapporteur, so now we have representatives' contributions if someone pushes a button but does not do so, so I will close the debate. [[19.50]] I'll ask the Secretary of State if he'd like to make a closing statement. [[On the sign of Péter Benő Banai:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-12-05-309	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I will be extremely brief, since Mr László Salacz has presented the substance of the proposal. I think that it is a motion that includes simplification, administrative mitigation measures, and also measures aimed at a more precise, more planned implementation of the budget, such as rules on chapter stability reserves or a system for forecasting expenditure and revenue from budgetary bodies. I trust that, repeating the thought of Mr László Salacz, the honourable Parliament will be able to accept these proposals tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-05-310	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Next up is the 2016 XC on Hungary's central budget for 2017. The Commission's reports on the entry into force of law with a different text and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. The government referral is T/12240. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Committee on Budgets will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Vantara.
u2016-12-05-311	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The amendments to the 2017 Central Budget Act, the general discussion of which took place on 11 November, followed by a detailed discussion of the Committee on Budgets at its meeting on 15 November. As a reminder, let me explain why the current amending budget for next year has been made. On the one hand, the deadline of 20 December for the establishment of the chapter reserve and the fulfilment of the payment obligation is amended to a later date, 28 December. On the other hand, the amendment of the tax laws in June also justified the regulation of cafeteria in the Personal Income Tax Act. Thirdly, as a result of the renewal of the regulation of the new public procurement law under way, the national procurement thresholds to be changed will be transferred to the budget. Fourthly, because of the change in the name of KLIK, which in the future will be changed to Klebelsberg Center. The above amendments do not entail any numerical changes, nor do they affect the deficit in accordance with the payment or the EU methodology, and consequently the amendments do not have an impact on public debt. The Committee on Budgets, acting as the Legislative Committee, submitted a TAB modification at the government's request, which provides for savings resulting from a reduction of the social contribution tax by 5 percentage points. As a result of the reduction of the social contribution tax, the expenditure appropriations of central budgetary bodies should be saved, which should be paid for the central allocation. With these resources, the government will be able to take appropriate action on wage measures affecting the public sector. I call on this House to vote in favour of amending the budget in this direction. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-05-312	Thank you. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he'd like to comment now. [[On the sign of Péter Benő Banai:]] It says no. We'd like to make some comments, but we don't have a candidate. The debate is therefore closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he'd like to say a few words. [[On the sign of Péter Benő Banai:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-12-05-313	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will be very brief, since Congressman Gyula Vantara has made a precise presentation of the proposal submitted to the Honourable Parliament. I think it is only amendments that do not affect the government's fundamental objectives in terms of the budget for next year. I believe that next year's budget provides a good basis for economic growth, an increase in the number of people employed and, in particular, a substantial increase in real wages to be achieved by reducing the deficit target of 2.4 percent of GDP already adopted by the honourable Parliament next year and the public debt. In this spirit, I respectfully ask the Parliament to accept the amendment of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-05-314	Thank you. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. We now have the Commission's reports on the amendment of certain employment laws and the debate on the summary amendment proposal. The government referral is T/12732. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. The debate will, of course, be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee. I give the floor to Congressman László Salacz.
u2016-12-05-315	Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee is the house rule 46. T/12732 on the amendment of certain employment laws. The Committee submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 24 votes in favour, 8 votes against and no abstentions. The summarised amendment contains, on the one hand, the proposal for an amendment closing the detailed debate of the Committee on Enterprise Development, and the legislative committee's own motion, which clarifies the committee's text in 3 points. In addition to codification and legal clarification, the amending proposal lays down rules for school cooperatives in particular. Among other things, according to the norm, a loanor or a school cooperative may apply for the aid to be recovered from the public employment body in respect of a claim for a loan fee or service fee registered or recognised by the liquidator if the rental fee or service fee has not been paid on the due date and the winding-up proceedings have been ordered within 12 months of the rental fee or service fee. The amending proposal is set out in the T/1273/10. Point 7 of the Commission's proposal to close the detailed debate is amended to the extent that the aid may be claimed in respect of 12 claims due before the winding-up procedure and not only 3 months. The bill contains a number of legislative harmonisation and forward-looking rules in the field of employment, to which I ask for your support. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-05-316	Thank you. I ask Mr Péter Cseresnyés, Secretary of State, if you would like to comment now. [[On the sign of Péter Cseresnyés:]] It says no. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Enterprise Development Committee. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I give the floor first to Congressman Ander Balázs.
u2016-12-05-317	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Well, we could look for a knot, we won't do it, although it's obvious that this bill is not without error, but we say that we can support it, because here they lead out something that has been red in Jobbik's eyes since birth, and that is the existence of employment cooperatives. What was the problem with that? In addition to the fact that years ago, we had a lot of criticism and not ex post reasoning that this whole thing in this form was a dead idea, it should also be said that in the context of Roma integration, where it was intended to be used as a kind of trump card, the system of this has failed badly. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Today, in the Committee on Welfare, the hearing was held by Minister Zoltán Balog, who asked whether they felt successful in the integration of Gypsy in Hungary, answered with a definite yes, even thanked him for the question, and gave a list of what he thought was successful, let us say facts. However, we believe that Roma integration in Hungary is not successful at all, and I, who came here from a constituency where we can experience it in the reality of everyday life, cannot say anything else. After all, I can only think that there are 12 districts out of the 74 districts of the 9 Transdanubian County, which are either destined for development or complex development because of their backward state, and of these 12 districts in a shameful state, 3 are in my constituency; I know that I did not win it individually, so that is not how I came to this House. The district of Csurgo, Nagyatádi or Barcsi has to face problems that greatly define life prospects and determine their everyday lives there. [[20.00]] And indeed, such an employment cooperative might have been a potential opportunity to solve something out of the misery, the cumulative disadvantage that we encounter there. That's not how it happened - unfortunately, I would add. Here, in the general justification of the bill, you, honourable pro-government advocates, take a short sentence and a half to get the employment cooperatives out, saying that they have not fulfilled their expectations. I think that much more should have been placed on the table, that we want to see professional and political responsible people, too, because billions of people have been squandered, clapped, put away, and there is still no responsibility for this shameful, shameful filth, even though every sane person knows that the issue of Hungarian-Gypsy coexistence will be one of the most serious issues in Hungary in the coming decades, and that if they cannot solve this, then there will be sad days for the Hungarian nation, Hungary. There was a chance for that, but Flórian Farkas managed to get his employment alliance on the wrong roads, not to build a bridge to the world of work, but to build a bridge and a highway into the world of theft. What will be so, I ask, my honourable pro-government fellow Members, with the country's Hungary, with the countryside, of which even the pro-government small-town mayors say that big politics can only look at them from a kind of mathematical point of view, can only speak to them in the language of numbers, and since a small proportion of the population lives, let us say, in these cumulatively disadvantaged small settlements, they are not really willing to concentrate resources here, and even look at such things, such swine, in return that your political selecter may have promised something, he will deliver votes on the side of Roma policy every four or five years, which can be bought cheaply. That is why Jobbik says that despite our support for this bill, but, Mr. Secretary of State, I ask when we will see those responsible, when we will see or when we will hear the names of the people responsible for the applause of these billions. These people have been involved in this shameful game of hope for many tens of thousands of people, and yet you refuse to name them, you refuse to catch them, and you refuse to say your political responsibility, even though it would have been extremely necessary for these funds, because if you only look at the latest statistics, which say that 39 percent of the active-age gypsy population only has a standing position, and half of this layer only has community service, then you have to ask yourself the right question that in families where there is neither work nor public work, what socialisation patterns children who grow up in families can see before themselves. The exact purpose of the employment cooperative, which went bankrupt, which has been destroyed and is now leading this institutional form on this basis, would have been precisely to allow children growing up in these families to see a pattern that is closer to the standards of the majority society, which is closer to the standards that the state expects, or which, let us say, meets school requirements. You know very well, Mr Secretary of State, that if there is a small overlap between so-called primary and secondary socialisation spaces, then socialization will become difficult and there will be a huge problem for Hungary. That's the opportunity they've been playing in this form. We are very happy that this is being carried out now, because the theft, the scruffing, the mutyk must end in this form, too, but I think that the Hungarian society, the taxpayers and even those who want a better future here should rightly expect the names of those responsible. I really look forward to the Secretary of State's reply, and I ask you to comment on this in a few sentences. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-05-318	Thank you, Congressman. Good evening to my fellow Members, and I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, Hungarian Socialist Party. You have the floor, Mr. Notary.
u2016-12-05-319	Good evening, Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address three issues in relation to the bill. One in the global context that is around it, say, through the National Employment Fund, the other - as my fellow Member also spoke about it - is the issue of employment cooperatives and their operation, and the third is the system of public employment itself. These three issues are important, and they fit together because one gives its cover background, and the other two confirm how your policy works. If we are talking about employment cooperatives, then today in this country - not within the walls of Parliament, today in this country - everyone only remembers how to steal a thousand million forints of money; that is about how people say it very simply when they find themselves facing the employment cooperative. The biggest problem, one of the biggest problems is that this can be done, the other is the biggest problem or the other is that it can be done alongside your charitable, efficient work, so they do not brake the story that is visiblely and clearly - in a visible and clear way! - with abuse. No matter what kind of bodies we look at or look at through Roma self-government or even representatives' interfaces, it is apparent that the misuse of resources available to help people who have fallen into the weakest fate is reflected. This is a huge problem. This is a huge problem, just because they take the air from the most vulnerable, the space, the scale of the thousands - ETUSZ, many others - for which, for whom assistance should be provided with two hands, they abuse it; they abuse the opportunity to make the vulnerable more vulnerable and to take away the resources and the air. It's a shame! There is no greater shame from this; it does not exist, because thousands of families in Hungary have been destroyed by these programs and frameworks, each subject of which, whether the head of the family or anyone else, has been involved and played a role in the story. Years go by, years go by, the story being that it will be possible at all to deal with the fact that, from any financial basis, some partial settlement can be made against crimes and crimes committed. Well, this image of employment cooperatives in the minds of people in Hungary today, and this is not random, this is not made by the opposition, this is what you did. [[20.10]] You gave it space, and you did not change this situation when you had the opportunity to intervene. When the abuse became public knowledge, you were just watching and coddling cases. The other is the system of public employment. The system of public employment is a necessary form of employment in Hungary. It is essential, necessary, but it should work in such a way as to make sure that, on the one hand, the self-esteem of those involved or able to play a role is not damaged, and, on the other hand, that, as a result of their activities, a return is produced, a tangible return. For many years you have seen public employment as nothing but the use of people in statistics as a means of cosmetics. They see them as statistical subjects, and that's not right. I dare say in a calm spirit that they are regarded as statistical subjects because they are not seen as human beings, because the government that, in comparison with, say, a period six or seven years ago, still gives less money to the public worker after almost seven years - not in purchasing power, but only in net terms, less money - unfortunately, it does not take public workers into account, and it is a shame. This is a shame, compared to the net of the former 60 200 HUF, this is the net of 51 800 HUF, which is worth 42 thousand HUF. That's how much you value the public workers. The other part of the story, which is outside the money, the salary, is that they are being driven into a system that undermines their self-esteem, because a lot of people can do much more than they can within the framework of the public employment system. He can't produce value, because he doesn't get a chance to do it in the morning, because he scans in the afternoon, and he doesn't care what he does or because there's nothing to do, so he doesn't look at him. There are many such examples. You know, you have to employ so many public workers in the country, you have to give jobs to people who can create real value, and they don't have any self-esteem in that sense. Or, if they do not engage in yield-generating activities with some of the public benefit groups, the public employees, they should at least do wage slippages within the public employment system. And then the third thing is the issue of the National Employment Fund. I would just like to say that when the National Employment Fund was established against or after the former Labour Market Fund, the first step was - it was to attach it to the national marker - that it was worth ten billion HUF less money. This was a mockery of national representation in the first step. I will go on and on, the idea of the National Employment Fund is that employers and employees should, on the one hand, be able to increase job opportunities and, on the other hand, to fund direct support for employment, active employment policy instruments or to strengthen access to training opportunities. On the other hand, through this draft law, they want to squeeze a lot of secondary, tertiary and fifth things into the Employment Fund, and they want to finance it through it, which is not relevant, which should be financed by the budget or by the Ministry of Interior. These things are, but most of all, the abuse of the employment cooperative and the public employment issue, which cannot be supported by this bill. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-12-05-320	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. I will ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[For signal:]] Yeah. It is not possible to ask for a vote for two minutes, but only for a full speech. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai.
u2016-12-05-321	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Nándor Gúr said that self-esteem should be taken into account. I think that the man who had to live on welfare before, he had such self-esteem. I don't think that's a good way to call it self-esteem. Helping someone to return to the world of work and, as a transition - I stress: as a transition - to public employment, we also improve their self-esteem. What Balázs Ander said, I am sorry that he is no longer in the Chamber... [[For signal:]] But he's here, it worked. We can agree that it is very important to promote co-existence between Gypsies and Hungarians with all our efforts, and this must be an important priority goal, and it must also be in the government's programme, but we must not forget that we are doing a lot of things for this reason. Not only do we help families, we not only strengthen the child protection system for this purpose, but we also group huge forces in education for this purpose. Childcare from the age of three must not be forgotten. It is very helpful for families to be able to have their children in kindergartens and kindergartens, in terms of their individual socialization and development, if they can become within the appropriate pedagogical framework. We are convinced that the development that started at this early date will help us catch up with the break-down layers, including those families who really need it among our nationalities, including among the gypsies. But it must not be lost in mind, nor should it be typified, that not all Gypsy families are broken families, not all Gypsy families need such help. You can't look down on them. Many and thank God, more and more graduates and colleges and university gypsies live in Hungary. I think we need to continue on this path. And the terms and accusations that Ander Balázs expressed on this subject must be rejected. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-12-05-322	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I ask if anyone else wants to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed and I give the floor to Mr Péter Cseresnyés, State Secretary, who clearly wishes to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2016-12-05-323	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to thank my fellow Members for their comments on the legislative proposal that is on the agenda and for the amendments they have tabled. However, given the differences in implementation, allow me to respond to a few points, some amendments. In his speech, Mr Nándor Gúr spoke with a rather critical voice about public employment and dealt with the self-esteem and value creation of the public workers. I do not want to deal with this in detail, because Congresswoman Mónika Dunai has put your thoughts in order on this matter, so that is not a further point of view, but I would, of course, like to respond to the amendments that have been made to them, the criticisms that she has made in the general debate. [[20.20]] He therefore objected in the debate that the costs of public employment exhibitions and research were financed by the National Employment Fund. I would like to note that the public employment exhibition is an event presenting the results of a supported form of employment and that public employment research is intended to better organise and operate public employment. Since they are closely linked from a professional point of view to public employment, it is therefore considered appropriate that expenditure should not be financed by the operational budget of a ministry. As far as the other point raised by the Member during the debate is concerned, the Wage Guarantee Act currently contains a provision that the loan-lending and school-cooperatives manage the aid separately from their own funds and can only use it to pay the wages due to the hired employee or the member of the school-cooperative. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to respond in more detail to the criticisms of the provisions of the bill on social cooperatives, both in the form of an amending proposal and in other ways. Both in the proposed amendments and in the criticisms expressed in other ways, the intention of the government was that the prepared legislation violates the internationally formulated principles of cooperatives and the freedom of business. This criticism has been expressed in particular against amendments to the cooperative law which require membership of at least one local government, a local government or an organisation with a public benefit status in the case of social cooperatives and that the social cooperative must bear a reference to its main activity in the name of the social cooperative. The imposition of compulsory municipal or public-use organisational membership is intended to facilitate the efficiency of internal control. We cannot agree with the criticism that the municipality and the membership of the organisation make social cooperatives vulnerable on the one hand and promote abuse on the other. The regulation is precisely based on the fact that, by being a member of a social cooperative, it makes internal control of the operation more effective. The current rule of the cooperative law requires the social cooperative to bear the name of the social cooperative on its behalf, which is supplemented by a reference to the main activity. This provision is without prejudice to the right to set up a business, but would only encourage cooperatives to pursue, in reality, an activity that meets the objective and original purpose set out in the law. Another amending proposal proposes to leave the provision of the bill that, if a member of the social cooperative who is a member of the working relationship is to establish or maintain a working relationship with another employer during the term of his membership, the member's employment relationship with the social cooperative shall be suspended during that relationship. The legal purpose of the legal relationship for member work is to provide an additional opportunity until the employment of a member of the social cooperative can be resolved in accordance with the general rules of the employment of another employer. This proves that we consider public employment and employment in the social cooperative as a temporary form of employment, and we intend to use this form of employment until the primary labour market can be found in the social cooperative as a member of a social cooperative. Therefore, there is no reason to allow the legal relationship to work as a member to exist in parallel with other employment rights. Ladies and gentlemen, It has been proposed in several amendments that the law should not only allow the public to reimburse local travel costs from the National Employment Fund in the context of the adoption of the right job and the search for a job. The reimbursement of local travel costs to job seekers is not included in the Ministerial Decree issued on the basis of the law, but on the basis of its authorisation. We do not support the reimbursement of local travel costs related to the job search of the public worker, because his duty to cooperate with a job seeker who is not involved in public employment does not include active job search, but only acceptance of the right job. This means that it is justified to settle the travel costs incurred by the legislation in relation to the acceptance of the corresponding job. A number of amendments are also proposed to remove the provision requiring the public worker to accept the training offered. The right training should also be accepted by the job seeker, and it is the obligation of the public employment body to offer training to the public employee that fits the labour market situation of his/her place of residence. The aim of the regulation is to bring the public worker back to the open labour market as soon as possible, so that he should also do everything that includes the adoption of appropriate training. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely hope that, with what has been said earlier, you have been convinced that the proposed amendments will accept the draft law and I ask you to vote in favour of it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-05-324	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Now, Honourable Parliament, the Commission's reports on the protection of certain health and self-help services and the discussion of the summary amendment will follow. T/12927 submitted by the representatives of Attila Gelencsér and Dénes Galambos Fidesz. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Dénes Galambos, rapporteur of the committee.
u2016-12-05-325	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. By decision of the Legislative Committee at its meeting on 1 December, the Committee adopted its summary report that, taking into account the opinions expressed in the general debate, the comments and questions which were put in the general debate were answered in detail by the authors, and that question was also addressed at the Legislative Committee meeting, which was constantly raised from the opposition side, and the question of my fellow Member, Mr László Lukács, was constantly focused on this, namely, that this proposal would be addressed to a company or association that came to the public under the name of Dimension. I would also like to stress, then and again, that our draft legislation does not apply to the company or association called Dimension, but concerns the fact that, after suspension, the activities of the associations are transferred to the health and self-help funds subject to supervision. In order to achieve this goal, it is necessary to introduce and adopt this quasi-subsidisation in the bill. I would also add to my fellow Member's question that his market share in the domestic life insurance market is only 0.7 percent for the Dimension Association, and since 13 May 2016, a Commissioner for Supervisors has been assigned to the Dimension Association, which in itself indicates that the text was not established for an association of your own name, nor is the purpose of the bill itself. On this basis, I ask the Honourable Parliament to adopt the report of the Legislative Committee and to support the adoption of the bill. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-05-326	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. Do any of the present State Secretarys wish to speak on behalf of the government? [[No one's reporting.]] They don't want to speak. No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. If there's any demand, please let me know. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see a signal. Dear Parliament, the debate is closed. [[20.30]] I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak.
u2016-12-05-327	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In fact, when I presented the report of the Legislative Committee, I summarized what was said in the debate, and I do not want to respond to that. There has been no question, so I would like to take into account what has been said in previous debates, and I would ask you to support the bill.
u2016-12-05-328	Thank you very much, Congressman Pigeon. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of the laws relating to certain school cooperatives and the final amendment proposal follow up. The representatives of Lajos Kósa, Kristóf Szatmáry, Sándor Hadházy, Győző Vinnai and Mónika Dunai, as well as the representatives of István Hollik KDNP submitted T/1289. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, rapporteur of the committee.
u2016-12-05-329	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, At its meeting on 1 December 2016, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/12899 amending the laws relating to certain school cooperatives. Bill No. 1. The board of the house rules 46. It submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 29 votes in favour, no votes against, 7 against and no abstentions. The summarised amendment contains the four-point amendment proposal of the Economic Committee, which is entirely the same as T/12899/6. The text of the Commission's amendment, which closed the in-depth debate, was accompanied by only clarification of the location of the language. Ladies and gentlemen, We have been in contact with student associations since the last amendments, and based on what they have said, I can say that the new legislation is simple and the legislative will can be read out of the rules. However, many questions have been asked from many places, and from this point of view it seemed more appropriate to provide answers to certain questions in a legislative context. Accordingly, the main aim of our motion is to eliminate the uncertainties that have arisen during the practical application of the legislative environment. In my opinion, the adoption of this proposal will make the legislation on school cooperatives more flexible and at the same time more uniform. I ask this House to support this proposal with your consent. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-12-05-330	Thank you, Congresswoman. I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to speak now. [[For signal:]] I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-12-05-331	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The last amendment to the law on school cooperatives was intended to change the fragmentation of the legislation on school cooperatives and to provide more room for movement in relation to the personal involvement of the member of the school cooperative. However, practice shows that it is still necessary to refine regulation. It is essential for school cooperatives to provide students with the opportunity to gain work experience during the training period. The proposed legislation will further develop the regulation for this purpose and contribute and contribute to the beneficial impact of the work carried out within the framework of the school cooperative on the fulfilment of the student's learning obligations. The amendment makes it clear that the professional practice required by the higher education institution can be carried out by a student of the school cooperative in the framework of a personal contribution to the external service and by a membership agreement. The possibility for school cooperatives to operate is enhanced by the amendment that the school cooperative can be a member not only of an educational institution but also of any legal person. It is reflected in the proposal that certain labour law rules should only be applicable to the work of the school cooperative member in justified cases, because, on the one hand, the day-school student is not employed in the context of an employment relationship but is able to do the work in the context of an external service relationship. Another reason for the amendment is that the day-school student and student undertake work within the school cooperatives only during the free time provided by the educational institution. The amendment of the bankruptcy law is intended to ensure consistency between legislation. The change in the rules for the employment of members of the school cooperative is also introduced in the bankruptcy law. A small number of amendments were proposed to the bill. The proposals supported are those which, in order to ensure consistency between the legislation, propose to clarify the parts of the fee in the changing provisions of the cooperative law and the bankruptcy law. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that the justification for the amendments contained in the proposal submitted will be confirmed by the practice, and I therefore ask you to support it, and I also thank you for your respectful attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-12-05-332	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Cseresnyés. No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. First, I give the floor to the notary Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP.
u2016-12-05-333	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Based on this draft law, school cooperatives can now become members of both natural persons and legal persons. Practical training, which is obviously an important thing, cannot be carried out, can also be provided by the student on the basis of the membership agreement for the external service. The basic problems are not here, I think the basic problems are there, even when the driver's license systems that are attached to the labour code are damaged, or even pay comes first instead of wages. The story is very simple, Mr Secretary of State, he spoke less of it in his introductory thoughts, but I'm sure it doesn't deserve to be said than we know his voice; it should have been a little more about what flexibility in your senses, within the framework of the Code of Work, means. Mónika Dunai also uses the expression of flexibility with a good heart. I would like to point out that you have been sufficiently flexible with regard to the Labour Code, which was in force on 1 January 2011 and 2012, when a great deal of measures were taken which resulted in flexibility for workers, even with a fall in wages. I don't have to go into the details, because it's not necessarily part of this bill, but it's just to refresh your memory a little bit, as well as for the secretary of state. You know, they remember how and how they reduced, let's say, the size of the afternoon shift or the night shift allowances and a lot of other things. But I don't have to go into the details. I just wanted to confront you with the resuscitation of flexibility and re-reference. Now, this kind of flexibility is not needed by the Hungarian worker. This type of flexibility results in an increase in vulnerability, as I said earlier. He may have given the employer one more opportunity because he was held against the wall, let's say, so much more that he could pull another skin off his employee, but nothing else. So it's not flexibility, let me be clear, it's vulnerability. The same way they do now, when they deal with the issue of freedom linked to the labour code. With a stroke of a pen, with a little momentum, the students in the day system were deprived of their freedom to work. [[20.40]] You know, the one they brought six months ago. In connection with these draft laws, from Kósa through Czomba to Szatmáry to Cseresnyés, and many others have been messing with this story, adding their own intelligence. Well, there's a problem with being so smart, there's a big problem, because the effectiveness of this doesn't show, Mr. Secretary. No, unfortunately, it is not his effectiveness that is shown, but how these people, students within the framework of the living room system, become injured. By taking away from them the freedom granted by your legislation six months ago. It's a mess, it's a mess, it's not consistency. But it's not just the issue of freedom. There's a problem with wages or pay. The member of the cooperative is no longer an employee, but a person of responsibility. That's why he doesn't get a paycheck, he gets a paycheck. You know, Secretary of State, what's the difference between the two, wages and wages? If there's one more time, of course, if it's up to you, then there won't be, but if it's not on you, then there'll be, say, pension security, then there's a difference between wages and pay. In Hungarian, I can say that with the joint collaboration of Fidesz and KDNP, students were pushed further from the Code of Work, practically from its scope and from its security or by it. Labour protection has also been weakened within the framework of this current draft law. The employers are probably not getting any worse, but once again, the members of the school cooperative are, and the owners of the school cooperative are probably not. But perhaps we should do a little research on who owns the school cooperatives, whether there are any links that have shown themselves in the direction of gambling, casinos or in any other direction over the past few years. You know, the reason why it is important to deal with this issue in this sense from the perspective of the Labour Code, from the point of view of wages instead of remuneration, is because there are about 180 to 200 thousand young people per year who are affected in some sense as students, who are affected in some way, and about 130 to 150 thousand of them - obviously the system is pulsating - they appear within the framework of the school cooperative. They are also used as statistical subjects as public employees, because Mónika Dunai, with great respect, seven years ago, will look at what he looked like, were young people working within the framework of the school cooperative in the labour statistics or not; are they now in or out? I can answer my own question. Yes, the difference is that you count in the statistics today those who were not included in the system seven years ago and are trying to create employment surpluses with misleading, manipulated statistical data. That's not how it's done, no! It has to be as described in the election programme, by paying return-producing tax forints, bringing to life jobs combined with a product in the economy. They've forgotten that about their actions. So what I want to say is that this draft does not give, but takes, and I want to say that re-employment by way of reduction of contributions is not stabilisation, no, not even flexibility, a category of exit from the world of work. You know, when we are talking about such things, whether within the framework of employment cooperatives or school cooperatives, we should rather try to really help and base it on leading to a world of work and not playing it. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-12-05-334	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, Fidesz.
u2016-12-05-335	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to respond very briefly to the question of how and on the basis of what logic we propose in this proposal as regards leave. In student associations, those who work as students or university students are, in their case, students' relationships and student relationships, which extend to their entire employment, if you put it that way. In this system, freedom seems incomprehensible and incomprehensible. It's very different how much people work a year through a school cooperative. Very often they only go to work for two weeks or a week during summer vacations, and there are college students and college students who work regularly several times a week through a school cooperative. However, this activity, this employment, can only be undertaken in a manner compatible with the status of students or students, in their spare time when they do not have a learning obligation. It is really difficult to reconcile these two in this way, and we have proposed this amendment on the basis of this logic and this consideration in the present proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Fidesz.]]
u2016-12-05-336	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary, MSZP.
u2016-12-05-337	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With just one sentence to my fellow Member, Mónika Dunai: six months ago, in terms of freedom, all of this was understood by you and by the laws you have adopted. Consequence? Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-12-05-338	Thank you very much. I will ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] He doesn't want to. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws relating to the transfer of tasks related to vocational training and adult training, together with the discussion of the summarised amendment, follow up. The representatives of Zoltán Bóna, Mónika Dunai Fidesz and representatives of Péter Harrach, Rózsa Hoffmann and László Földi KDNP submitted T/12919. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in a 15-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Mrs Mónika Dunai, rapporteur of the committee, in no more than eight minutes.
u2016-12-05-339	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I inform the Parliament that on 1 December 2016 the house rules are 46. The Legislative Committee discussed a bill amending certain laws relating to the transfer of professional training and adult training tasks, and the Committee presented a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 24 votes in favour, 7 votes against and 4 abstentions. The summarised amendment contains the legislative committee's own motion, which has overridden the amendment proposal of the Committee on Culture in several points. [[20.50]] I would like to highlight very briefly some of the substantive amendments supported by the Legislative Committee. The motion is addressed to Mr T/12919/6. The amendments to points 1, 5 and 8 of the Commission's proposal to close the detailed debate are accompanied by codification clarifications. Points 1 and 5 contain a codification amendment, and point 8 aims to clarify the provisions of the bill aimed at separating the administrative and purely professional tasks by removing the official tasks associated with the management of the main sheets from the responsibilities of the public vocational training and adult training body. I would like to ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of this proposal, which the Legislative Committee, together with the amendments tabled, proposes to the Parliament for adoption, with a view to achieving the uniform procedure laid down. Thank you very much for the word and attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-12-05-340	Thank you, Congresswoman. The minority opinion will now be presented within a 7-minute time frame. I give the floor to right-hand congressman Tamás Pintér.
u2016-12-05-341	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, For this amendment, the 2016 CIV adopted in the autumn. It is due to an amendment of the Act, which, according to the opinion, will give rise to efficiency gains and improvements in quality. But it got into this bill, which we had some pretty serious objections to, which I already told you on one of the previous meetings. According to this, the proposal of the MFKBs, i.e. county development and training committees, would be prepared by the Government Office after the opinion of the NSZFH. In our view, this would burden the government office at a level that would create a waterhead that would slow down the already difficult and bumpy processes, because it would have modified this committee's proposals to tackle the shortage of skilled workers, so it would have put it under the government office. The Jobbik for Hungary Movement thinks that we need to come up with meaningful motivations to help students apply to deficiency professions. Since this has been amended on the last Legislative Committee, so this point has actually been removed from the whole amendment of the law, our party supports this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-05-342	Thank you, Congressman. I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. [[Dunai Mónika: No.]] It says no. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to speak to her on behalf of the government. [[Peter Cseresnyés: Yes.]] I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2016-12-05-343	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, We can say that the professional debate of the bill and the professional work that has been carried out since then have been successful, despite the fact that the main subject of the debate has often been peripheral. The amendments tabled in the context of the bill included amendments to the need for clarification raised in the general debate in order to maintain a coherent and coherent professional structure. The proposals for amendments by individual representatives and the Commission's proposals for amending the detailed debate on the bill have made clearer the provisions to help achieve the objectives set out and clearly understood in the proposal. On the basis of the proposals, in some cases the provisions aimed at separating public authorities and purely professional tasks have been adapted, such as the professional decision preparation and the professional examination and examination organisation function of the NSZFH will be preserved, thus making it even more visible that the planned amendments are in line with the implementation of the government's plans to reduce non-professional tasks of the background institutions. During the general debate, a number of people suggested that the planned steps were towards centralisation, but the claim could not be interpreted at the level of the task, since the change does not mean centralisation of decentralised functions, but aims to rationalise the performance of tasks with national competence. Ladies and gentlemen, As a result of the discussions, it became more clear that the NSZFH will continue to be one of the main locations and actors in the performance of professional tasks related to vocational training. The work of the expert adult training committee, the central examination organisation and the preparation of the professional structure decision based on the proposals of the county development and training committees will continue to be carried out by the professional body NSZFH. Therefore, it is not centralisation, but a rationalisation of the provision of tasks on the basis of the bill. The changes will give the designated government office a greater role in the vocational training system and in particular in adult education. The transfer of new competences will allow for the uniform operation and supervision of the full system of adult education and the system of professional examinations within the framework of an institution. The bill also fits into the system that government agencies have already set up and run to the satisfaction of everyone in the organisation of graduation exams; the higher level of graduation exams are organised by government offices per county. Similarly, the operation of the OKJ professional examination system will be managed by the Government Office. Exam presidents and examination committee members shall be delegated by the designated government office and shall carry out all the related tasks of an OKJ examination of an official nature. For example, it maintains the central records related to the examinations, records the holders of the examinations and manages the main sheets of the examinations. In the final bill, it is also clear that, contrary to the criticisms of my opposition fellow Members, the task of grouping is not distracted, it undermines the task of the county development and training committees to decide on the structure of the profession, to determine deficiency qualifications, but rather to assist the Committees in their professional work by taking on administrative tasks. Ladies and gentlemen, With the amendments tabled, a more precise and understandable bill can be presented to the Honourable Parliament, which is capable of achieving a uniform functioning of the full system of adult education, as well as a significant reduction in the administrative burden associated with the tasks of the relocation, which were previously carried out in a dual organisational structure. For these reasons, I propose to this House that you support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-12-05-344	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. First, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, Member, MSZP.
u2016-12-05-345	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We are talking about a draft law on the transfer of official responsibilities of vocational training and adult training. But before we do that, I would like to say a few sentences about vocational training and adult education. They've been governing for almost seven years. A three-to-four-year exit in the vocational education and training system can achieve tangible results. Now, during the period of governance of the seventh year, we see and experience - and we do not say that, not the political opposition, but the employers' circles that express their needs in the labour market - that there is a problem. There's a problem, Mr. Secretary, with vocational training. There is also a problem with vocational and adult education, as the compliance is not right in line with the expectations and needs of employers. This is obviously due to the fact that you first crushed everything, crushed everything, created a situation in which, I can say, with a calm spirit, you have dumbed down vocational training from one side to the other, and the chances of further education have been reduced for those who are going to study, so to speak, within the framework of vocational schools. I believe that what you have done in this regard has been thoughtless or insufficiently thoughtful. It shows this inefficiencies. You know, when in some of the vocational training institutions, but you can say that unfortunately not in some of them, but in a tangible multitude of 2.5 average performances, there are problems there. [[21.00]] Obviously, problems brought about by initial training also raise their minds. Well, they didn't do what they were supposed to do here either, either by using, subtracting, reducing resources, going through many other ways, or even in terms of what would have been about matching the needs of the labour market. Adult education. As far as adult education is concerned, they have disbanded an existing system of decades, decades, and decades of operation. This is the network system of the CIS, among other things. The regional conversion centers. Regional retraining centres, which are linked to a clear and normal relationship system with the world of work and with the institutional education system itself. It would be worth it, Mr. Secretary, to look at it, to dive, to see where this story is today, to see what they have made of it. So-so, what I want to say is that both in terms of vocational training and adult training, not in terms of official duties, but in terms of substance, have caused a great deal of damage in the last six to seven years. If we are to start talking about redeploying authority tasks within the framework of the draft law, I must say that this story is about nothing more, Mr Secretary of State, than the concentration of authority tasks through redeployment. So it's about how and how it can be permanently centralized, so to speak. In the past, official tasks related to adult education were not organised within the framework of the Government Office. Is it an official job or a professional job? I'll give you some of what appears within the framework of this bill. For example, the designation of the professional examination and examination presidents within the framework of the OKJ, as to how public authority or professional consideration should be based. I think it's mostly professional, not official. Or the issue of central exam planning. Or, if nothing else, the transfer of the official tasks of the National Vocational Training and Adult Education Office to the government offices of en bloc, or the former representatives of the county development training committees mentioned by you, has now been confirmed by the adoption of certain restructurings and expectations there. But in terms of freedom of movement, which was practically the most professional in terms of a county or region, how does moving them into a kind of framework, again, towards a kind of centralization, make use of professionalism? I don't think so. I think it's making it worse. But the institutional system of the VET agreement has also been abolished. You know, what was born between the state and the non-state maintainer, which was necessary because, by the way, it was possible to obtain funds from the vocational training part of the National Employment Fund if these types of vocational training agreements were given. This determined where, how and under what funding framework, let us say, vocational training. I do not want to overtalk, so I just say that everything you do in this regard, tell me already, Mr Secretary of State, or to us here, within the walls of Parliament, at least how much you enjoy, let's say, the support of the teacher union or the teacher democratic union. In what sense and to what extent has he been discussed with them, and how much of their positions have been accepted and integrated into this thinking? Because I believe that within that framework there are people with professional skills. So, you can say anything, Mr Secretary of State, just like at the former item on the agenda regarding flexibility, when all you have faced is the vulnerability of daytime students, I can now say to you, you can say anything, but it's still centralization. What good is it if they want to put everything together in one hand? Why is that good? Why do they not believe and trust the multitude of people working on professional platforms? If you don't trust them, how do you think they'll trust you? Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-12-05-346	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2016-12-05-347	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like to say very briefly, not what Nándor Gúr said about the bill, because in my speech I said my thoughts about it, but the wide-ranging accusation he tried to make is certainly a reason for a response. I would like to respond with some thought to the thoughts and sentences that he has said. My fellow Member! I am pleased that two years after the start of the conversion of vocational training, he realized that something had begun in vocational training. In that vocational training, in reforming vocational training, which, among other things, is not the result of your work as a blessing, which has been or has been neglected for the eight years that you have been in government. You pretend you weren't a representative then, you weren't a member of the ruling party, you were a member of a party that could have interfered that if there was a need for reform, you could have done so. You didn't do anything. They didn't adapt training to market needs, it was a very big problem, and we had to do it ourselves. For example, we have made contact with organisations, we are now developing a professional structure, training in the field of vocational training, which help our work by focusing on labour market needs. This has created new professions, which is why we have transformed the school system of vocational training so that there is no dead end for students who start their studies here or continue their studies here. Unlike you, for example, in vocational training institutions, in the three-year vocational training institutions, where the output could only be in one direction, by obtaining a skilled worker certificate, and in order to be able to learn from it, you had to start your studies almost from the beginning. We've stopped this, too. So we're in the middle of a major job that you don't want to admit, and you're putting up old records. He's been making the same accusations for years. It's as if the world has passed you, and the old records remain with you. It would be my suggestion and my request that you keep an eye on the changes. Listen to the work that we do in the field of vocational training, and then you will not express such thoughts, such sentences, that you have done in your speech. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-12-05-348	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary, MSZP.
u2016-12-05-349	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's not an accusation. It's a fact. It's a fact, Mr. Secretary. They have been governing for seven years, with inefficiencies in this regard. Adapting to market demands? You know who? Rest in peace, Minister Péter Kiss, who at the time started these processes within the county development training committees, moved to learn the skills of deficiency, motivation, created financing background conditions that you no longer had to invent, which you only had to read and then practice. But unfortunately, they couldn't do more and better than that. [[21.10]] Overall, what they do in terms of vocational training and adult education is a disgrace. It is a shame, and the alignment with the needs of the Hungarian labour market is not, unfortunately, supported. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-12-05-350	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, Fidesz.
u2016-12-05-351	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. If we could say today that, before 2010, for eight years before the VET system, the previous governments would have noticed that there was a big problem, and then you would have taken the initiative to change the VET system, then I think that we would be moving much further today. In 2010, we had to face the fact that our young people, our children, did not receive enough competitive knowledge in most vocational training institutions to put them in position and work. That had to change. When we change a system, we can, of course, criticize everything, but I think that it would be right to criticize it if you had done something about it. Either they didn't want to, or they couldn't, or they didn't realize the necessity, but the fact is that in those eight years, we could have made two steps; now we could have moved from two to three. The vocational training system cannot be dragged back and forth [[Nándor Gúr: Well, that's what I said!]] every four years, every eight years. I think that this should be a constructivity for the opposition at all times, that we will follow the stated goal on a given path. Our goal is for our young people to gain competitive knowledge. Our goal is for young people to get to work and learn professions that are needed by themselves and by society. I think that the accusations in this matter are not appropriate at all, but the MSZP would rather keep quiet in this case. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-12-05-352	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I will ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment now. [[For signal:]] No. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Now, Honourable Parliament, the Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws in connection with the introduction of an annuity for dance arts and the discussion of the summation of the amendment proposal follow. Presentation by MEPs János Lázár, Zoltán Balog, Mónika Dunai and Gabriella Selmeczi Fidesz T/12739. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi, rapporteur of the committee.
u2016-12-05-353	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, At the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 30 November 2016, the House Rule 46. T/12739 was discussed by the members on the basis of Section T/12739. A bill amending certain laws in connection with the introduction of an annuity for dance arts was tabled by the Committee with 24 votes in favour, no votes against, and a summary report with 7 abstentions. During the Committee meeting, the members discussed the four-point proposal of the Cultural Committee in the background, covering amendments of a legal and text-focusing nature. Consequently, I can say that the Legislative Committee fully supported the Commission's amendment closing the detailed debate. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the proposal is to extend the annuity of ballet art, which was established by a previous law in 2011, to the dance of dance art, and thus transform it into an annuity of dance art, not ballet art. I would like to rename these four artistic bands and dance groups, who are included in the proposal, because they deserve to receive this allowance, if the Parliament votes. So the Hungarian State Folk Ensemble, the Honvéd Ensemble, the Danube Artists' Ensemble and the Budapest Operetta Theatre dance choir are affected by the present presentation. I think it is appropriate to pay particular attention to all those who maintain our culture and recreate it. I'd like your support for this, please. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-12-05-354	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I'm going to ask if the Secretary of State wishes to comment on behalf of the government. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Yes.]] You have the floor, Secretary Hoppal.
u2016-12-05-355	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I believe that, at this late hour, I can give support to the Government for the summary amendment. Complements to factual proposals contribute to the real achievement of the social objective pursued by the proposed amendment. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-12-05-356	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the designated Cultural Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. I'll see if anyone wants to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment. [[Mónika Dunai: Yes.]] I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, Fidesz.
u2016-12-05-357	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the authors, I would like to thank you for the attitude and constructivity that you have shown at committee meetings. This was also seen from the fact that the Legislative Committee supported the proposal without voting against, although some abstentions were, but without voting against. I think, and this is also the main aim of the proposal, that Hungarian folk culture, including the Hungarian folk dance, is recognised by this presentation, and we would like this recognition, although it may seem symbolic, to draw attention to the fact that, not only in dance art, but also in other sectors, folk culture is equally important and equally important to our artists. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-12-05-358	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First, I would like to give the floor to Mr Zoltán Késző, an independent Member, who has applied for a statement after the agenda: "Is it unluxurious or disgusting? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-12-05-359	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and Gentlemen, When the Minister of Propaganda, in his hearing last week in the Justice Committee, said that his main task as Minister was to lead Fidesz to victory in 2018, he was right. Let's stop here for a second. Mr Rogán was publicly telling the truth, and what if it is not a real political delicacy. He admitted that, like Turkmen or his colleague in Belarus, it is his job to use all of our money to keep a party in power. But even more importantly, the phrase that seemed to be a speech was actually a warning, and the recipient was Viktor Orbán himself:, Don, we are connected, I am staying, as long as you, or we cry together, laugh together, and don't even think about touching me! Of course, it is no novelty that politicians hold each other tightly in public life, so it is also in places where the fate of the hundreds of billions of people is not determined in the VIP box of a vacant stadium. [[21.20]] But they don't joke around here. Some people write in a small, nerdy booklet about what they don't like, the other foreign paparazzi, and send their stolen filth media after their rivals inside and outside the party, and some people spill national security information about opponents, as Mr. Rogán did at his committee hearing last week. Watching and extorting each other can reach a level near the Mariana trench, where a clan robs state goods with endless foaming, leading to the outbreak of a wild gang war within the luxury right. However, you will have to account for the identity of Antal Rogán at some point in time with Hungarian society. And I have done this at the command, and it will not be a good excuse, my fellow Members. You have to account for someone who, in their opposition period, has already given you the impression that he is a politician, while still having a remarkable fortune. Ask each other why Budapest Airport is not just one of many airports for Antal Rogán! Ask each other, whose manual control the 2006 server case and the Hungarian Vizsla case is linked to! The person who worked with Árpád Habony in 2004 in the quiet offices of the city to be conquered. But as long as the initial scandals were mostly lost by you, so did the entire country. This was the case when the Rogán Circle looked out for the mayor's seat in the City of Belváros with fabulous real estate assets, which has since become a Swiss fork owner, with Balázs Kertész, who had reached the Aulich street office at a low and underhand price, and is now huddling at the auctions of luxury products, while he is busy trying to remove traces of recent years from the Internet. I've already succeeded in the contract of his giant apartment. This was the case when the masses of downtown buildings were sold at a price, and the members of the Rogán interest circle appeared among the winners. Do you remember that, as opposition politician, Antal Rogán introduced the luxury label as a pejorative content in the political discourse? At the hearing of the Minister of Propaganda, at the request of my constituency, the inhabitants of Veszprém and its surroundings, I asked: what does the Minister responsible for political communication today mean in Hungary? And does Antal Rogán, according to his own judgment, live in luxury compared to the average Hungarian? Why do you think the voter didn't get an answer? Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, The helicopter is only visible at the tip of the iceberg. That's not the point. Billionaire peacocks, lower-medellinian cocaine barons, and the accompanying phenomena, bags, shoes, suits that cover teachers' two or three-year pay, and apartments that expand like the universe are only props, not essential. The point is, how could someone, along with his dubious circles of power, rise to the top, whose only real invention is that he is able to accumulate an amazing amount of private wealth through the state. You must answer this question, and remember that if you laugh with Mr Rogán now, there is a fear that one day you will cry together. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and MSZP.]]
u2016-12-05-360	Thank you very much, Congressman. Tamás Pintér Jobbikos, Member of the Council, applied for a post-meeting speech: We did a great job at the European Championship of skilled workers. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-12-05-361	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to extend my sincere congratulations to our young skilled workers participating in the EuroSkills tournament between 1 and 3 December in Gothenburg and returning home with six medals. Since 2008, talented Hungarian professionals have participated in the most prestigious professional competition on the continent, where they have always stood up and represented our country fairly with their successful performance. During this year's competition, about five hundred young skilled workers from 28 countries measured their knowledge in 35 professions, 16 of them Hungarian young people started in 14 professions. The IT team of Bence Tóth and Viktória Vajgel became silver medalist, Bence Stadler is a builder, and Zsófia Molnár is a florist, Pányi Péter welder, Éva Szöllősi-Vágó hairdresser and Barbara Beke beauty nurse. The best of the nation received recognition from the IT team, Bence Tóth and Victoria Vaj. Tamás Varga received a medal of excellence in care and care, Lisi Roland furniture tablekeeper, Krisztián László Zilahi and Dávid Balázs mechatronika. It is a special joy and evidence of outstanding performance that the Hungarian team, based on the average scores, is ranked 5th, on the medalboard between the 28 countries in 8th place. The participation of Hungarians in Gothenburg was accompanied by significant international interest due to the recent achievements of Hungarian young skilled workers in various international competitions and the EuroSkills competition in Budapest in 2018. This honor for our country can be a particularly good tool for promoting the professional career in Hungary among young people. At the European Championship of young skilled workers, our competitors have achieved this respectable result in the most populous field so far, and they have shown that Hungary has a talent for success. There is no greater evidence that the domestic workforce has a significant value. I am also very proud of the fact that the young skilled workers of my city, Dunaújváros, also achieve outstanding success every year in the OSTV and SZKTV competitions. Without standard vocational training, a country's economy cannot be well developed and competition between countries has developed in this area. In view of this, it is even sadder that in Hungary there is an increasingly worrying vision of the gradual reduction of vocational training, and that today the shortage of skilled workers is becoming unbearable with domestic employers. There are areas of expertise where employers find little or no suitable professionals, and this is a very controversial picture with the results of our professional workers with internationally recognised skills. The list of the least popular professional groups is almost entirely in line with the list of current deficiency professions, and this is evidence of the lack of a meaningful solution to the shortage of skilled workers in the relevant fields, and the problem is becoming increasingly pressing. This process is long, but already extremely damaging to the Hungarian economy in the short term. I also encourage the government to come up with substantial motivations to promote students' access to deficiency professions and to provide an adequate and advanced environment for all apprentices to learn their profession as fully as possible. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik and MSZP.]]
u2016-12-05-362	Thank you, Congressman Pintér. Dear Parliament, Mr László Horváth, from Fidesz, also applied for a post-meeting address with the title of the Lovas Centre of Lipica, Szilvásváradi. You have the floor, Congressman. [[21.30]]
u2016-12-05-363	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It was a celebration of the Hungarian cavalry society on 12 November, it was not a noisy holiday, but it was more joyful and worthy of tradition, as the horse lovers, those committed to horse culture, the domestic riders and the breeders were also very happy to welcome the new establishment, the dedication of the new, modern, world-wide horse riding horse. They used to wait for this facility, and it took more than 30 years for such a facility development to take place in Hungary and Szilvásvárad. The spirit, tradition and the knowledge and performance of the predecessors of the place oblige us to take such steps, as in 1984 there was a similar business in Hungary, when one of the most successful World Championships of all time was held in Szilvasvárad. At that time, the world re-learned the names of the Hungarians, the names of the Hungarian champions, and the name of the small village, Szilvásvárad, has not been erased from the history of driving. After more than 30 years, within the framework of the Kincsem programme, the rebirth of the Lipica cavalry centre in Szilvásvárad is the largest development of its facilities. The first stage was completed with a lid of HUF 1.9 billion, and we hope that at the end of 2017, the whole of the new cavalry centre will be handed over, and we very much hope that a World Championship will be held in Szilvasvásvárad again in 2018, in line with the intentions of the Ridersports Association. Thanks to the Government of Hungary that Kincsem has accepted the National Horse Programme, recognising that maintaining and filling the tradition with life is an important matter. Without horse culture and without the preservation of horse culture, there really is no Hungarian culture in its entirety, and for this purpose, this very important area, it has also assigned its own internal resources. As a matter of interest, let me tell you that, before the beginning of the investment on the old horse track, archaeological exploration was carried out in the field of the track, the horse track, the former horse track, and there among the late bronze-age artifacts, archaeologists found horse sculptures, not great, but remarkable ones. They date the age of these artifacts to 3,100 years old. The tradition on which the new centre of Hungarian horse culture is built can look back to 3100 years of history, and we also see tradition, horse tradition, as being filled with life. Tradition, as Ferenc Sebő said, is not a prisoner, it does not need to be guarded, it is not sick, it does not need to be nursed, but it is only sustainable if we always make it relivable, we create life for it in our own lives. This tradition is honoured and hosted by the new riding centre in Szilvásvárad, the Lipica centre. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-05-364	Thank you, Congressman László Horváth. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I thank you for your work, the Parliament will resume its meeting at 9 a.m. I bid you a restful good night, and the sitting day is closed. [[Meeting ended at 9:33 p.m.]]
