u2016-05-12-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 25th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. Welcome to our guests and everyone who's watching our work. Dear Parliament, The draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2017 and the general discussion and conclusion of the submission of the opinion of the State Court of Auditors follow. The bill is T/10377. Opinion of the State Audit Office T/10377/4. Number 2 is available on the IT network. Dear Parliament, I would like to remind you that the Parliament has decided to negotiate the proposal within a 30-hour timeframe. The agenda recommendation shall be appended to the allocation of timeframes. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to explain the distribution of the time frame of the factions available today. Mr. Messenger!
u2016-05-12-1	Dear Parliament, Today, the distribution of the 13.30 minute timeframe is: 278 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 127 minutes for the KDNP Group, 154 minutes for the MSZP Group, 139 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 82 minutes for the LMP Group and 30 minutes for the independent Members.
u2016-05-12-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, The opening speech, the speech by the President of the State Audit Office and the President of the Board of Budgets, the speeches by the keynote speaker and the representatives, were delivered yesterday at the beginning of the general debate. The further speeches will now take place in the time frame available for today. I would like to draw your attention to the possibility of proposing amendments by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing. Mr Répássy, Member of the Fidesz Group, has asked for a speech. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2016-05-12-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Guests, In the next few minutes, I would like to talk about a major area of next year's budget, the third branch of power, justice. In general terms, the government's proposal represents progress for all disciplines, it is also true for the judiciary, they can develop in the judiciary next year, they can achieve new goals, and more importantly, the pace of budgetary support growth in the judiciary since 2010 has remained unchanged and will be even stronger in the coming year. I'd like to give you a little reminder of how the courts' budget has turned out in recent years. In 2010, there was a total budget of HUF 70.4 billion for the court chapter, which then increased every year, with support for the budget chapter by 2016 of 92.7 billion. So every year, not only in nominal terms, but also in real terms, the budget for justice increased. Let's look at next year's budget. It is well known that according to the law on the organisation of the courts, the President of the National Court of Justice can prepare the draft budget for next year on his own, and the government has submitted it to Parliament without change. Compared to 92 billion forints this year, the court's budget proposal, within HUF 109 billion, is estimated at HUF 107 billion, which means that the budget for justice would increase by more than 50 per cent compared to 2010 in the last week, more precisely six - depending on how we calculate, in six fiscal years - so the budget for justice would increase by 50 per cent. So much for numbers. What's behind the numbers? Behind these figures, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the European Union is preparing a so-called Justice Scoreboard every year on the justice systems of the Member States, and in this Justice Scoreboard - we cannot say that this is the only measure of the performance of justice, and I must say that sometimes it would mislead us if we only looked at justice through the glasses of the European Commission, but I would still like to tell you the good news that - the award of Hungarian justice has moved forward with new places. There are different indicators of justice. I have to say that Hungary's justice system is now one third of the EU's Member States. I would like to point out here that, in one respect, the court budget has been lagging behind for years, and this is nothing more than the case of judicial salaries. The judicial salary shall be determined as part of the Budget Act, the so-called basic judicial salary. The basic judicial salary has been unchanged since 2012 and amounts to 391 600 HUF. Compared to this, the budget before us, the draft budget proposed by the President of the National Court of Justice, contains a significant step forward; it intends to put another method of calculation and another basis in the focus of the judicial salary base, but the point is that a significant step forward could also be made with regard to court salaries. I would like to draw attention here to the fact that if this House accepts the proposal of the President of the National Court Office, then some amendments must be made to the law. First of all, the bill is 63. § 2 of the Act, paragraphs 1 and 2 of that Act also define the aforementioned judicial salary base, which, for the time being, continues to indicate the amount of the civil servants' salary base in 2012, so that if the Parliament accepts the additional allowance, the additional allowance for the increase in the salary base, then we cannot leave the salary base unchanged. And the stipend rule, as I said, is 63. Article 4 (1) is amended as follows: I have one more important comment on this: the proposal also includes the prosecution's budget. The Public Prosecutor's Office's budget, as it is for the courts, is showing ever-increasing budget support. The Public Prosecutor's Office's budget is nearly HUF 40 billion in budget, but the prosecution's budget has not planned an increase in the prosecutor's salary that has so far been automatically associated with the judicial authority. So if the Honourable Parliament decides to increase the judicial salary base, then, in accordance with our constitutional customs, the prosecutor's salary fund, the prosecutor's salary base, must also be increased, since it is not intended that the actors of the two basic bodies of justice have different jurisdictions. [[8.10]] One more thing: the President of the National Court of Justice would like to convert to a new way of raising salaries and calculating salaries, and this would tie the judicial salary base to the average salary of the national economy, more precisely to double it. My personal opinion is that, given that this would definitely require a fundamental amendment to the law, it is therefore not appropriate to choose this solution. If the Parliament decides to give greater support to the courts, raise their due support and raise wage subsidies in this regard, then the 63rd mentioned above is sufficient. Raise the basis for the judicial salary set out in Section 5. It is possible to calculate the salary base even using the method proposed by the President of the National Court of Justice, but I do not consider it fortunate to switch to a new salary calculation, which would result in a change in the salary table, the salary system. Instead, it is much easier to choose to raise the salary base. Dear House, So I would like to say once again that, according to the government's proposal, justice can move forward next year, and if the proposal is adopted, then justice will not be a small step forward, but a significant step will be taken by the judiciary. That's why I'm asking for your support for the bill. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-12-4	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Szakács, MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-12-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. In response to yesterday's debate only in one sentence, which, I think, was even more intense than usual, and I think I can't be more polite than that, we have to say, of course, that we are criticising the budget, and I think that is what you did when you were in opposition, and of course we would like to see other priorities in a budget, because there is a difference in world vision between us; I will talk a little about them. I think that it is also a mistake for us to make a mistake because then you do not understand that the real point of politics is that either we go this way or we go that way and that this difference in world vision should be resolved. However, over the past few years, we have had far more experience than we have had, since when we want to show these differences in world vision by financing certain things and recommend to you that a healthy compromise can be reached in the country's affairs, we usually - by the way - this day yesterday was an exception when the members of the government actively participated in the debate - we get a unanimous answer to the amendments and our suggestions: the government does not support it. That's what we get, and that's why I think that, of course, we will continue to give criticism, and of course we will continue to make our proposals, but please don't at least hold this as a mistake. I think that everyone should do their job and come up with proposals that fit their own vision, vision, vision and philosophy, and they can criticize the rest. I also remember why now. This is no longer the first budget that we will begin to negotiate in May. I agree, by the way, with those who say that it is mostly professionalism, and mostly blind luck, on the basis of which these budgets remain enforceable. You do not know how the international financial markets, say, in the middle of 2017, will stand, you do not know how the price of Hungarian currency will stand, let us say, in an international comparison, you do not know what will happen to the economies of the European Union or even of the countries outside the European Union, which define our open market economy, let us say, in mid-2017 and at the end. I understand that, with the governance of the Financial Regulation, they will try to bring this into line somehow, but let us see that this is done with the first quarter of fact data in our possession before closing and not least at the same time as amending the 2016 budget. Now, the kind of basic view that you are always talking about is already in itself the current amendment - although you can obviously figure out that Parliament will accept it - I think it is attacking it hard enough or seriously undermining its credibility, that we will discuss next year's budget before closing, or at least in the middle of a budget amendment, in May. I think that's where it goes, Mr. Secretary of State, that there's always a lack of qualifications. Of course, it is in this right now, and I see it in this, and I think it is not an opportunity, but a failure of the government to maintain the structural shortcomings that either the European Union or the rating companies are putting at the expense of the government, and that is why the ratings are so low and, on the other hand, credibility remains behind this. For if, at such a time, so little data is tried to make a budget, and for some reason it is considered important, it will generally not strengthen credibility, but reduce credibility. As a positive point, any expert would say - just to say that I should not be accused of what was happening to all my opposition fellow Members yesterday - that you really can keep to the point that there is less than 3 percent of the deficit. But there were some, and there were a lot of experts who asked, "What for?" There is no specialist in the country, there is a huge migration from the country, there is no good living in this country, there is no perspective for our young people. Our high school students, who are asked what their perspective is, how they see their own future, say they see them going abroad. In my town, where I live, 78 percent told the high school students that. The perspective is that she's leaving next year, there's no expert. You have announced a home building, housing support, home creation programme. I don't care if it's a mess, it's good for two companies of one person, and I'm putting it in parentheses, and the budget doesn't plan on how much it's going to support these home-building communities, so we don't know that it's counting on five thousand of them now, fifty or five hundred thousand. But please, in Hungary not only will apartments not be built because people cannot buy them, but because of 17 of the 21 professions required for housing construction in Hungary. It can be achieved with fiscal constraints, it can be achieved to keep the deficit low, but the question is why. Is the chance-creating education preserved? Is healthcare available and safe? Is it good to live in a country where the shortage is low? Once again, everyone has admitted that at least you have succeeded in making the same price. I'm not saying we're releasing the deficit. I say that the priorities should be different, and I will give examples. Rating will be difficult, and therefore it will be very difficult to finance the slowdown in EU funds, I think, in the coming year, and if it is difficult, I mean not to say that it will not succeed, but to say that it will be very expensive to finance these things. We are about HUF 800 billion in this thinking, and it will be about HUF 800 billion that will have to be financed from domestic funds due to the slowdown in EU funds. And to get back to the difference in world vision, we believe that the reduction of consumption-type taxes is, of course, correct, but it is wrong that you have not calculated how much the higher income category will save on this. It doesn't look good in communication, let's face it, it's just that. [[8.20]] You calculated that people in the low income category save 15-20,000 forints a year. But why aren't those in higher pay grade calculated? - I think they'd give you a full picture of that, by the way. Why are welfare expenditures being reduced? Why is it nominally decreasing - in a moment, I'll look for it - to help families, to help the normatives, the widow's pension, why is the nominal amount of orphanage falling? And there's more to it than that. This is your worldview, as opposed to which we are trying to paint another worldview, a worldview where we think that the state has a serious role to play in caring for people and not just focusing on self-care. One more difference in the worldview, and I'll tell you this every time it's a budget. The case of the Hungarian Olympic Movement, the case of the Hungarian Olympic Committee, is a damn important matter, I see. It's a very important case and an important movement. Wouldn't it be possible for the National Rescue Service to get as much funding as the MOB? I asked that as a question, Mr. Secretary of State. Why is it more important? I understand that both are very important. I think that if we are talking about the National Rescue Service, the wages of the workers there, their means of saving our lives when we are in big trouble, then how can this organization, the National Rescue Service, slide down to second place against an Olympic Committee, this is the difference in world vision. That's what I think we have a right to reprimand. And now I'm not saying that I don't care what the MOB does with HUF 37 billion, because I care, but to be honest, once again, that the National Rescue Service receives 37 and 32 of the Hungarian Olympic Committee, we're almost done with that, these are the world-vision differences, ladies and gentlemen, which we would like to draw attention to. Yesterday there was a serious debate about health care. You promised me a lot of heat there. There was a big problem with health last year; you couldn't pay 110 out of 60 billion. In fact, without structural restructuring, this would have remained a loan, and to date, they still owe the nurses the payment of the excess work, which I have just learned from the new secretary of state that they are still registering it, and we have been told earlier in more than a hundred letters that there is no record of how much work the nurses have been obligated to do in the past. You promised 167 billion to raise wages in health care, and in comparison, we hope that, say, the E-Fund's increase of 71.4 billion will focus on, say, wages. But if you promise 167 and plan 71.4, then you don't want to agree, Secretary of State, then you want to force this on them, that's all there is, and there's no more. I'm not going to the demagogy, that the rest of them will turn into trains and I don't know what they are. But then you don't want to settle, so that's the increase in the E-Casket, HUF 71.4 billion, we think that maybe they'll all go to pay, of course, there's a question of what structure this will go to pay. It is not your own idea to try to level low-income earners as quickly as possible, you are, simply for political reasons, much more active than those with higher incomes, already politically, to raise their salary, and I am constantly meeting with those paramedics, paramedics, nurses who are asking for money from each other for food at the end of the month. Ladies! Gentlemen! This is where your country holds you, with a deficit of less than three percent. It's a very nice, beautiful performance, and the one who stayed here is borrowing food from the other. Make it clear to me. What do you intend to do about the wage increase? They say something completely different, and the budget is completely different. Who gets what this year and who gets what next year? János Lázár announced that the OEP would be largely abolished, and that they should also make it clear whether the Treasury can perform these tasks. Will the Treasury be able to provide the very complicated funding system for drug support systems, hospitals? You don't think he can provide funding for education, but only the CLIC can provide it. And then there is the question of what else is going to end in this sector, even in this sector. We have put forward proposals for amending the budget. We're trying to keep your promises, and if you've offered the medical staff 167 billion forints to raise wages, we've put it in the budget, we're wondering if you support it. The HUF 71.4 billion, projected on average for the 120,000 people who work here in health care, is approximately HUF 25,000 gross. You can't be proud of that, especially in terms of knowing the wage level there, you shouldn't be proud of that. It must be blushing, gentlemen. We've set up this money, we're wondering if you'll be able to vote for it. In a proposal we set this out: institution reconstruction, infrastructure development. I would ask you to support our proposal, in case the patients will not have to take a pencil element to the blood pressure machine, and perhaps the devices that are in hospitals will work; because unfortunately, this is also the case that Hungarian hospitals are poorly equipped if you tell us a thousand times that hospitals are better equipped. We have prepared a HUF 290 billion amendment in the budget for health care, and I would like to ask you to support it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-05-12-6	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Péter Banai Benő, Ministry of National Economy. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-05-12-7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Congressman Cook recalled yesterday's debate. Allow me to return to the questions that have been raised yesterday and which you have mentioned again, Member. I think that, when discussing the 2017 draft budget law, it is really worth looking at whether the budget numbers, macroeconomic projections are correct, whether they are expected to stand the test of time or not. In addition to confirming the merits of the budget bill, the State Audit Office and the Fiscal Council, the Hungarian and international analytical institutes, see the main figures on which the draft budget for next year is based to be realistic. I'm thinking of a growth of around 3 percent or a deficit of less than 3 percent. Mr President, you are certainly right that government officials, Members of Parliament, do not see what the oil exchange rate will be like on 26 September 2017. At the same time, there are prognosises and the budget can form reserves for any risk that can be identified. This is what the 2017 budget bill does with the fact that tax rules determining the budget and other laws determining the budget can be adopted at the end of the spring session of the Parliament in mid-June, the Hungarian Parliament can strengthen stability and predictability. This practice has also been confirmed by the previous year's practice; if you look at the opinions of national and international analytical institutes and official bodies on the 2016 budget, you will confirm it as a virtue, you will see in your opinions as a virtue that the budget was born earlier. For those risks, the budget shall be prepared with an increased reserve system. This is the case in the 2016 budget, and this is also the case in the 17th budget, with a total amount of HUF 200 billion and more than HUF 200 billion included as a reserve in the draft budget law for unforeseen risks. Now, if we assume that the budget figures are based on the judgement of organisations that are independent of the government, then it is really worth looking at what the budget will bring to individuals within the macroeconomic figures of the budget, what the budget will bring next year. First of all, I have to say that if it is worth living in Hungary, if we look at the question from the perspective of whether there has been an economic and wage catch-up to the centre of Europe in recent years, then I can say that, yes, in recent years, the growth of the Hungarian economy has been greater than the EU average, and wage catch-up has been higher than the average growth rate of EU wages. [[8.30]] We calculate that this process will continue in 2017. There is therefore no doubt that in a few years the difference in development between the Hungarian economy and the centre of Europe cannot be eliminated, but the catch-up has been achieved in recent years, and we are counting on this in 2017. As for wages, let me give you some numbers. Net - I stress, net - average earnings increased by 4.2 per cent in 2015, substantially higher than economic growth, 5.6 per cent in 2016 prognosis, also much higher than economic growth, and 5.1 per cent in 2017. So, if the Member is looking for whether economic growth can be achieved, and whether the positives of this are felt by Hungarian families, the Hungarian population, then I can say that yes, on the basis of the budget proposal before us, catching up and experiencing the positive effects of economic growth by everyone is a realistic scenario. Is there money in the budget for raising wages for public sector workers, and the Member points to health care. First of all, I must make it clear that the additional health expenditure of HUF 167 billion you have mentioned is in several places. The planned numbers of the Health Insurance Fund for 2017 do not include the amount of health wage development, not because the government does not have a clear intention of raising wages, but because negotiations are ongoing on the amount of wage increases, and therefore this additional expenditure is included in the section of the Prime Minister's Office, not in the E Fund's budget, but in the provisions. Here, the government only did that it complied with the provision of the Public Finance Act, according to which, if an expenditure is expected in advance, but the exact amount and hand-off is not yet known, a central provision should be made for these expected expenditures. If the congressman looks at this estimate, he will see an amount of HUF 180 billion. This includes expected wage increases in health care, wage measures in the social sector, or wage measures in the cultural area, amounting to HUF 180 billion. In addition, more than HUF 220 billion is included in the budget for wage measures that have already been decided, such as the Ministry of Defence or law enforcement. In total, there is therefore more than HUF 400 billion plus wage measures in the public sector in the draft budget for next year. Missing trades. The Member has drawn attention to an employment problem, which, if I may put it this way, is perhaps a more positive problem. A few years ago, Hungary was one of the European Union countries where unemployment was one of the biggest problems. We are now faced with a shortage of labour in many sectors and in many regions. However, this shows that the economy is developing, yet it shows that the employment growth of more than 500 000 people has been achieved in a significant part in the competitive sphere. Congressman, these are the facts. I repeat: the draft budget includes substantial additional expenditure in both health and education and, in addition to increasing expenditure in many sectors, there will be no nominal reduction in the benefits referred to by you in the social field. Mr President, there are, indeed, expenditure appropriations where, due to a decrease in the number of persons affected, total public expenditure is reduced, but for individual benefits there is no supply line where the government would recommend a reduction in the amount, and for the opposite example we can see a number of concrete measures. So I must confirm once again that there is no area in the budget for next year where those affected would come out of the adoption of the budget and the relevant tax and foundation law as losers. I therefore ask that, in addition to the problems and challenges of the budget that are undoubtedly ahead of us, you also see these positive points in the budget proposal, and I trust that, in the light of all this, the Government's intentions may at least be partially supported by the opposition. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-12-8	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Member István Hollik, KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-12-9	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. In my speech today, I would like to explain the impact of the draft budget for 2017 on young Hungarians, but before I begin to do so, allow me to respond to my fellow Member, Mr Cook, in a few words. He said it was natural for the opposition to criticize the proposal put before us by the government. I also think that the opposition should accept that, in this respect, it is also natural for us to point out the differences between the results achieved during the previous government period and the results achieved under the Fidesz-KDNP administration. As the Secretary of State said earlier, it is clear that this is not expected to be reasonable from the Hungarian budget or from the Hungarian government that the decade-long lag that communism has caused against the European seed countries in Hungary can be worked out in a few years. But it is important that we move in the direction that we can reduce this difference in development, or we are removing ourselves from the core Europe, and in this respect it is clear that the results of the last six years show, as the Secretary of State has said here, that we are clearly approaching Europe in a wage level. We're a long way from it, but the direction is very clear. And in this regard, allow me, my fellow cook, to take a look at your results in this regard. And what we can see is that, unfortunately, during your period of government, the trend was quite the opposite, so you, if you look at wages, but even more so at the number of budgets and macro-economics, we can see that we have not only approached the level of development of the European Union, but we have moved away from it. In my speech yesterday, too, I said that, at the time of your governance, you could not achieve the average level of development of the European Union in a much more favourable environment in the world economy. For example, Hungary was able to develop by 0.6 percent in 2007 until the EU average was 2.7 percent that year. Therefore, this should be taken into account when talking about the 2017 budget and its direction. And I'd like to get to my comments on young people. The aim of Fidesz-KDNP is to provide young people with a picture of a country that provides them with opportunities and security. We must also say that Hungary's development can only be successful if the young Hungarians feel it in their everyday lives. The 2017 budget reflects this government intention, which is why it can be said that, in addition to home creation and tax reduction, 2017 is also the budget for young people. In addition, the government's aim is to make Hungary the most competitive country in Central Europe for young Hungarians, and in this endeavour Fidesz-KDNP naturally supports the government. In this spirit, we need to look at the obligation, the substantive obligation of the government, the current Hungarian state with regard to young people, and there are basically two things to mention here. On the one hand, the need to protect young people from harmful harm to them and, on the other hand, to help them to complete and achieve their own goals. In addition to the government priorities so far, the issue of youth protection and the further strengthening of the situation of young people will be even more stressed, at least as shown in the draft budget before us. [[8.40]] This is in line with the government's intention to show young people the true values of life, such as home creation, employment, which is not only one of the most important ways of making money for us Christian democrats, but also a God - given profession or the founding of a family. The development of young people's professional skills and their future job success will be supported by the HUF 270 billion additional funding for education next year, as well as by the priority support of the national talent programme, as well as by strengthening the research and development field. The funds available in the domestic budget to achieve the objectives of the national talent programme are based on the 1 percent tax offer, which the government intends to keep next year. The amount collected from 1 percent is complemented by the government's central budget, which is included in the draft 2017. In the next year's budget, the regulation will remain the same, i.e. 1 percent tax returns will be used for the purposes of the national talent programme. In 2016 it was HUF 2.8 billion, and on the basis of the draft budget law of 2017, this amount will continue to be guaranteed next year. However, it is important to add to this - and in this respect, the money spent on talent will increase substantially - that the Hungarian budget funds will be added in the framework of the flagship call Hungary of Talents with a total of HUF 1 billion per year for the next five years. So it can be said that because the government thinks - in agreement with Fidesz-KDNP - that if there is anything worth using extra resources, then those young Hungarian talents are. This is reflected in the fact that this area will receive substantial additional resources starting next year. One of the greatest achievements of youth policy in recent years is that we have been able to significantly reduce youth unemployment through the use of predictable economic policies and innovative policy ideas. Youth unemployment was 14,1 percent in February 2016, which is more than 5 percentage points lower than the EU average, which is 19.4 percent, by the way. In this way, we can safely say that Hungarian reforms also work in the field of youth employment, and Hungary is performing better in this respect. Not to deny that there is still a lot of work to be done in this area, and to move on, because although youth unemployment is lower than the European average by 5 percent, it is still significantly higher than average unemployment, which is now approaching 6 percent. So there is still work to be done in this regard, but clearly the direction is good. Further improvements are expected from the continuation of the Youth Guarantee Programme and the Action Plan for the Protection of Jobs, the launched business development schemes, the strengthening of student associations or measures to facilitate the placement of public workers in the competitive sphere. The government will spend a total of HUF 200 billion on the entire Youth Guarantee Programme in the coming years, and in 2017 it is expected that the government will have HUF 30 billion at the disposal of the government in order to meet the commitment of the Youth Guarantee Programme to help young people under 25 in 2018 at the latest. The resources to support young people wishing to enter into business, future startups, will also be significant next year. Most of the HUF 2.9 billion available under EU programmes, GINOP will be used in 2017, i.e. next year. In this context, the government will contribute to the creation of nearly a thousand businesses in convergence regions. In the Central Hungary region, the government will provide tangible assistance to young people who wish to enter and wish to enter into business with a HUF 1 billion source. Today, all young people think that online life is natural, I can say that our age group is already more online than offline, so we consider it important to make the daily life and leisure opportunities of young students and co-workers easier, which is why we reduce the VAT rate for restaurant services and the Internet to 18 percent from 2017. The latter, I think, is a good indication that the government and Fidesz-KDNP are listening to and hearing the voice of young people, which is why they have launched consultations on this issue, and the result of this consultation is, in fact, that next year's budget already includes a reduced VAT rate for the VAT on the Internet. According to the draft budget, family tax incentives will continue to expand. Young family members will benefit greatly, and this will be a great help to them. Thanks to the family tax relief, families with two children with average incomes will have more incomes next year. As part of the increase, the monthly tax reduction will increase to HUF 15,000 per child in 2017. This could increase the annual income of a family with two children by an additional HUF 60,000. It is closely linked to the family support system that the government spends HUF 211 billion on the largest home creation programme in recent decades. This includes a family home-building discount, a state-supported preferential loan, a reduction in the VAT on the construction of new homes and support for national home-building communities from 2017. CSOK provides effective assistance to young families and encourages their stay at home, as it is a very important rule that when buying a Hungarian apartment, work abroad can also be taken into account. I think this is an additional help for young people who are thinking about wanting to move back to Hungary after working abroad. The dynamics of construction will not only be facilitated by the large-scale home-building programme, but also by other investments directly affecting young people. According to the draft budget for 2017, the gym building programme will continue, with nearly HUF 3 billion included in this draft budget, the school development programme, for which nearly HUF 3 billion is also available, but a significant amount will be spent by the government on the Ludovika Campus, the new campus of the University of Physical Education, or even the XIV. Summer European Youth Olympic Festival will also be held. The strengthening of higher education and the support of young researchers are well indicated by the increase of PhD students' scholarships from 100,000 forints to 140 thousand forints from 1 September 2016 in the first two years of their training, and in the second two this increase to 180 thousand forints. I would also like to point out that the EMMI has also promised that, since those PhD students who are out of this scholarship system would suddenly have to suffer a huge reduction in their salary, the EMMI has promised that this problem will also be dealt with. Economic success is not only seen as a tangible decline in youth unemployment. Continued reduction of public debt reduces the future burden on children and young people, thereby increasing their later scope of manoeuvre. We cannot use the resources of future generations as the former socialist governments did, which is why we broke up with taking on foreign loans, as it takes away the future of young Hungarians. We believe in effective economic policy and solidarity within society and across generations. Today's young people can see low inflation as a natural feature of our successful future, as well as one of the main criteria of effective economic policy. [[8.50]] In this respect, it is also to be welcomed that inflation in the draft remains at a very low level, at least as shown in the projections. We are fighting to continue the trend towards reducing and reducing harmful passions throughout Hungarian society, but especially among young people. We have seen earlier that the ban on smoking indoors has significantly reduced demand for tobacco by almost 40 percent. This is the direction we are going to take when we increase excise duty on tobacco products by 29 percent in three steps from 1 September 2016 until the end of 2017. It is important that we send young people a message about responsible farming in budgetary policy. The important question is whether the government sets a good example when it makes decisions on public funds. We can see that in this respect the message of the 2017 budget is clear. In Hungary, there is now a government that does not live up to the future of young people before 2010, it continues to reduce public debt, the budget deficit, which remains below 3 percent next year, even though it devotes it to fully economical and job-creating investments. It is an important step that the government plans to spend some HUF 1200 billion on research and development and innovation by 2020, and continues to support the research programme of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, with which it plans to make significant progress in the field of water science, agricultural innovation and professional methodology in the near future. Young people are more flexible in all respects, and their impact is greater if they are encouraged by the government and make it easier for young people to do so. Entrepreneurs and employees will win HUF 9 billion in total with the related incentive measures. This is the extension of the concept of working accommodation; in the case of working accommodation involving several living rooms, one main place per living room, and that, under certain conditions, the employer may grant the worker, the young worker, mobility allowance for housing purposes as a tax-free benefit. In addition, the cost of travelling to work by car increases from HUF 9 per km to HUF 15 per km. This can also stimulate mobility at work, which affects young people most. Entrepreneurship is also implemented through tax and administrative burdens, in addition to specific subsidies. SME growth is also ensured by removing the barriers to investment incentives and corporate tax benefits that are available to SMEs from 2017. The start-ups, the young entrepreneurs and the cut-offs are not missing out on the positive changes, as next year, according to the draft budget, the subsidies received do not have to be considered as revenue for the small-taxing business. The excavations will be better next year, with a change of HUF 1 billion. The reduction of VAT on certain basic foods - milk, eggs and poultrymeat - to 5 percent represents significant support for all young people, especially low-income beginners and learners, as well as for students who are living in the apartments and dorms who are developing their own lives. It also helps to improve the competitiveness of domestic producers and young farmers. The salaries of teachers, policemen, soldiers and government officials will continue to grow, and the government will develop a self-contained career model for rescue and tax workers. The main beneficiaries of these career models are the younger age group, who would like to choose these professions, and these career models contribute to making these professions, these jobs more attractive to young people, and the public sector as well. The aim of the service state is to help young people, young parents, start-ups and start-ups with the tax reduction I have just mentioned, the improvement of the quality of public services and the elimination of unnecessary bureaucratic procedures. The application for a family tax reduction has been significantly simplified since both parents' employers do not need to be involved in filling in the information sheet. In addition, the price of the administration of the authority's moral certificate has ceased from this year, i.e. the administration has become completely tax-free. Another positive change for individuals is that, in the case of tax debt, the claimants can automatically receive six monthly instalments up to HUF 200,000. To do that, you only have to submit one application to the tax authority. Therefore, on the basis of the draft budget for 2017, it is safe to say that, in addition to tax reductions, home creation and growth, it will also be the year of young people. We know that the country cannot be successful, with a strong, stable foundation and values without young people committed to family and community life. Hungary intends to continue its construction in this respect, which started after 2010. To sum up, next year's budget shows that the government is helping young people to increase their employment, start up their businesses, give their lives perspectives, while reducing their cost of living and increasing the opportunities for young people to live and to create homes. In view of all this, the Christian Democratic People's Party can support the draft budget before us and I call on my fellow Members to support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-12-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A statement will be made by Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, Member of the Jobbik Group. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-05-12-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. In order to introduce my speech, let me return for a short time to the debate between Mr Banai and our fellow Member László Szakács. I am very sorry that our fellow Member László Szakács has left the room in the meantime, and therefore the MSZP fraction has run out, except for the notary. In any case, in return for the debate, a question was raised to the Secretary of State whether it was worth staying in Hungary. Let me help our national government to answer such a question by a national government, a truly national government, that there is no other option, there can be no other way, because you must live here and die. At the very least, a truly national and truly Christian government must create living conditions that do not require anyone to move from Hungary for a moment, to study most elsewhere. Unfortunately, however, this is not the case in Hungary today, because the next question, which has also been said, was whether there has been a pay gap in the last few years, while Fidesz has been ruling here in Hungary; to this, the Secretary of State has given some statistics. Now let me add one or two specifics that have a little bit more to do with reality and is much closer. For example, a public official or a public sector employee's average salary in 2008 was slightly more than 120 thousand forints. Now it's a little less than 120,000 forints. The net in 2008 was about 90,000 for the same person. Now it's a little over 90,000, but at the same time what this money is worth at 2008 level is not quite 70,000 forints. And a civil servant with a secondary education has to work for 33 years to earn more than the guaranteed minimum wage; so make a little more than is needed to starve. I think that, compared to this, the figures that we have heard from the Secretary of State with great respect, that there has been a year of 4.2 percent, there will be a year when net average earnings in this sphere will increase by 5.1 percent, ridiculously few, not enough for anything, and it may, according to some statistical data, be more than the annual growth of our economy. [[9.00]] But even so, we are still at the same point that these people are working for ridiculously little money, and they are the ones who stand up there, at the ends, in the offices that you, by the way, are going to want to close soon, as we know, by designing the ASP system. Returning to the draft law itself, we must say that this is the budget law that the House is already discussing, that the same House has recently adopted the amendment of the Aht. that any ministry can commit to any order of magnitude without cover by subsequently notifying the Minister of Finance of the commitments it is undertaking. So in Hungarian: this entire budget, which is before us, is a joke, we play it as if we were discussing a budget, in fact, the legislative framework has overwritten it a long time ago, and the data that are included in the budget can only be indicative, setting a direction that reflects some of the government's ideas and thinking towards us. Let us see what this mentality is, which is in front of us from the current draft budget law, and what direction would the government think of so much to us! Yesterday I took part in the consultation on proposals for rural development programmes, where civil society organisations, parties and advocacy organisations took part, and it was the general opinion, which, unfortunately, is usually formulated for the operational programmes of Széchenyi 2020 so that it is feared that there will be a very serious partiality, and that there is a political background, pressure, and so on, and what I have heard more than once, is why this budget cycle is called Széchenyi 2020 because 20 percent is one of the Fidesz entrepreneurs, 20 percent of the other Fidesz entrepreneur, and then we will rub off on the remaining 60 percent. In English, corruption now becomes not only a random law, but also a law on which the system is based in operational programmes, and the utilisation of rural development funds is doubtful not only because of corruption, but also because of the fundamental direction. This is where it was said that it was not enough to talk about rural development money in two or three years' time about what lessons we will be able to learn in terms of how this quite a lot of money has actually been used and whether it was worth spending these funds in this way, but also now, for example, in the next year's budget, we need to look at the impact that certain budget lines you have required, let us say, on the life of rural Hungary. Consider one or two examples as an introduction. There's the education thing right now. As we know, the CLIK will cease, it is true that, not in the form that you announced in advance, but in a different form, it will be mutated, but it is almost certain that it will be restructured in such a way that it will take over not only the reservation but also the operation from the municipalities. In contrast, there is no evidence of this in the 2017 draft budget law. The question arises as to why it is not. Because there is parallel thinking between the various actors in the government, and there is no communication or connection between the individual actors, and therefore they have not yet had time and opportunity to plan the future that you or someone have already planned, in this draft budget law, or, for example, because they do not think that these extra costs, such as operation or additional personal conditions, should be included in the draft budget law, for example, because they already know how many additional schools they want to cancel next year, i.e. for the 2017-2018 school year. So maybe it's not just simple stupidity or bad planning, but it's part of the idea that they're gonna narrow down the frames, and, yes, what we've heard before, how they're gonna close the schools by hundreds, it's probably gonna be the next year. I don't know, I'd like an answer to that, because otherwise, you guys can't read any other numbers. But there is also the question of public transport. You have to choose this thing into two parts. I am thinking of the chapter on additional operating aid within Annex 3 to the Finance Act. This is part of the promotion of non-mandatory public transport, i.e. operating aid for rural Volánbus companies. We know that there is a mandatory loss relief on the part of the municipalities here, if and if these companies are to be maintained, and this is complemented by the government in some way. The amount is ridiculously small, and I add, as is the case with all the normative and task financing support, the same for years. Since 2010, there has been no change in this area, but only one or another data has been changed very little, but for example, there has been no change in this issue for years. At the same time, we know that these transport companies and compulsory loss relief are a very heavy burden for municipalities from one side and the other, so these companies are on the verge of being and not being, which is why people in the countryside can experience that from one village to another, although the distance between the two settlements is only a few kilometers, yet the bus is only passing for hours, which, by the way, is barely running twice or three times a day. So, in this sense, community transport is completely impossible for the population living in rural Hungary. Let's not talk about train transport, because the certain lines you promised to restore the traffic on them were not so long ago. But let's keep going. The same is the case with regard to BKV transport, where, for years now, additional support to BKV has been decreasing, although we also know that it would take more than 70 billion to operate safely, but you are now planning only 15 billion in 2017. I have to go to the office and run it. I already told you about the civil servants' basic salary. Neither this year, so it's gonna be the tenth year they haven't raised it. What the Gyurcsány government has signed with the IMF as an agreement, namely that the civil servants' basic salary will not be increased, exactly by you and will not be increased by a penny next year. And even though you tell me, Secretary of State, but the IMF would have asked for further cuts, I was just saying in my introduction that these certain wages did lose significantly their value, so what the IMF dictated, please, you did exactly the same, even though the fight for freedom was fought. And there is now one more question, and I am very pleased that my fellow Member, István Happy, is in there. We know that he has already submitted, for the most part, the mayor's salary increase for small settlements, small villages, but unfortunately it is not covered either by the 2016 budget law, but certainly not in the 2017 budget law. [[Happy István: You have to look at it because it is submitted!]] Never mind, I tabled such an amendment, so your motion will be eligible on this basis. At the same time, I have to say that despite the fact that the 2017 draft budget law is extremely strict and extremely starving for rural Hungary, it is very generous in some respects. For example, the conversion of the NAV, which was due to take place by March, could have been expected to result in fewer and fewer NAVs being sufficient to maintain NAV, since after that three-level system, we can only talk about a two-level system. [[9.10]] Nevertheless, next year's budget will require an additional 14 billion for the operation of the NAV, both personnel expenditure and investment costs will increase significantly, and we could also mention visual and prestige investments, a number of them. In addition to the investment in City Park, I cannot go silently, as there are 12 billion planned last year, 15 billion this year and 32 billion planned next year. However, if either of us goes to City Park to look around, you can see that nothing has happened, but nothing has happened, despite the fact that only a few trees have been cut down, by the way, billions, we can now talk about tens of billions, not a penny has been spent on the City Park. It's the same with the Castle. Overall, I have to say that we found HUF 635 billion in the 2017 draft budget law, which could be used much more intelligently, for example, to preserve the viability of rural Hungary, not to say, as pocket money for some ministries or ministers. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and MSZP.]]
u2016-05-12-12	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Péter Banai Benő, Ministry of National Economy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-12-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will be brief, but I feel that I have to respond to some of the questions raised by the congresswoman. The first or one of the first remarks made by the congresswoman was that the budget was a joke. I think that in recent years the government has been trying to take seriously the budget that the Honourable Parliament has adopted, and in this spirit the draft budget for next year has also been prepared. As regards the amendment of the general government law you mentioned, I must state that it is only possible to make a commitment within the budgetary framework approved by Parliament. The amendment you mentioned is designed to allow the government to make a commitment to provide coverage within the agreed framework within 30 days of the commitment. So this allows for a transfer, not for the government to print money. The government can't make money. The government must manage within the budgetary framework approved by the Parliament, and I repeat, I believe that the last few years have shown that the government has complied with these principles, these rules, and I repeat, in this spirit, the draft budget for next year has been prepared. Public education, KLIK. KLIK has an additional source of 105 billion HUF. It is undoubtedly a fact that the restructuring of the organisation system is underway. I can assure the Honourable Parliament that this organizational transformation can take place within the government powers within the budgetary framework approved by the Parliament, or I can say that this organizational transformation can take place. As regards the financing of local transport and public transport, first of all, let me point out that it is the responsibility of the local government to ensure and finance local public transport. The law requires this to be done by a local government. In particular, she mentioned the funding of the BKV. The financing of the BKV is the first local task of the capital. Another issue is that the central budget provides support for this task. The other issue is that, in addition to the provision of resources, the state will take over the financing of inter-urban transport. I also draw attention to the fact that, as a new element, as a new item of expenditure, it has been included in the draft budget law of 17 as a new appropriation for the financing of agglomeration transport in Budapest. As regards wage conditions, allow me to draw attention to some contradictions when you say that wages are not increasing in the public sector, that since 2008 there have been unchanged salaries, and then you mention that spending is increasing at NAV. The increase in NAV spending is mainly due to the increase in the NAV careers and the wages of the workers there. [[Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs: 36,000 civil servants are not paid a penny! The president's ringing the bell.]] Madam Member, the increase and the other part of the increase in the NAV are aimed at making IT investments aimed at reducing the grey and black economy. This is detailed in the government's budget proposal. We are dealing with expanding the online cash register system [[Mrs. Loránt Violin: Andy Vajna, too?]] , we are dealing with the introduction of a system of electronic invoicing, measures that provide tens of hundreds of billions of additional revenues to finance, for example, the careers you have mentioned. Let me tell you, in fact, that there has always been a wage increase in the public sector to the extent that the performance of the economy has made this possible. Let's take a look at the wage increases in the public sector. [[Sándor Szabó: It hasn't been eight years!]] There are areas where there hasn't been a wage increase [[Mrs. Loránt Violin: There won't be!]] But from 2012 onwards, there has been a very significant increase in wages in certain areas each year. He was and will be in the field of health care. [[Sándor Szabó: Let's ask them!]] in the 2017 budget proposal, as planned in public education, higher education, the social field, the start of this year's wage increase at district government offices, I mentioned the NAV system, social allowance, plus benefits for nursery higher education workers... [[Loránt Hegedűs: 35,000 civil servants! 35,000!]] I hear you, Congresswoman, and I respectfully ask you to hear what I'm saying. What I am saying, what I am saying, is that there has been a very significant increase in many areas in the public sector. I may have missed out on law enforcement workers, who, after a 30 percent wage increase, will have another 5 percent wage increase in next year's budget. I think the figures show that wage increases could have been made in proportion to the productivity of the economy. Thank God, this economic performance has exceeded the average of the European Union in recent years, which can result in wage increases in many areas. If the Honourable Parliament accepts the Government's proposal, this process will continue in 2017. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-05-12-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr István Happy, Fidesz Group, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2016-05-12-15	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Allow me, before I turn to the substance of my speech, because I would like to talk about road development in the 2017 budget, first of all, to respond to the contributions of two fellow Members, first of all to the comments of Dr. Loránt Hegedűs, Mrs. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin is smiling.]] about the mayor's salary. Dear Congresswoman, the fact is that in December we should have supported the mayor's wage increase, then the mayors would be making more money today. I am pleased to inform the dear congresswoman [[Mrs. Loránt Violinist intervenes. Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I have tabled my amendment on the mayor's wage increase for the 2017 budget today. So, not only am I launching the mayor's wage increase again, several times before the House, I have also tabled an amendment to cover this, so I hope you will support it with a good heart. The other is that my fellow Member, Mr László Szakács, said that there is a difference in world vision between the socialists and the civilian government. Well, please, it's a fact, we have to say it's a fact. I mean, what's a budget like with you guys? If you have a budget planned, then, please, inflation will be released, wages will be reduced, health expenditure will be reduced, education expenditure will be reduced, public deficits will be released, public debt will continue to increase, 13th month's pension will be lost and 13th month's wages will be reduced. [[Dr. László Kács: It hasn't been returned in six years!]] They can't keep the three percent deficit target, which you're telling me is what to do. Dear Congressman, you don't seem to be living in this world, because if we don't meet the three percent deficit target, [[Dr. László Kács: I didn't say that.]] Then there will be no EU development money, and if these do not come, there will be no improvements that you, of course, demand from the other side. So I think, under your guidance, [[Dr. László Kács: Listen to what I have to say. You should understand.]] - I have listened to you, Congressman, and I believe that it is good for you to yell at me, but a cultural man listens to the other, and I have listened to you - so I would like to say to you that this is your policy: you are losing money, wages are falling, deficits in public finances and debt is increasing. On the other hand, in civil thinking, we respect the European Union standards that are necessary, we plan the deficit below 3 per cent, it has been below 3 per cent for years, we have planned a 2.4 per cent for 17 and I trust that it will still be under this. [[9.20]] Moreover, the State has planned its own operating costs for the first time in many years with a zero percent deficit. I think it's a huge thing. Of course, we are planning to increase GDP, unlike in the period of socialist governments, where there was a negative GDP. Of course, we are planning a 3.1 percent increase. And inflation, not in the same way as in socialist governments, is unleashed to increase public finances, but to keep inflation below 1 per cent, as we hope, close to zero per cent. As far as the government debt is concerned, which you have been able to bring up from 52 percent of GDP to over 80 percent from 2002 to 71.9 percent in 2017. I think that this is the civic thinking that can result in every person taking a step forward. While every single person under your control, every single one of them, has moved backwards, every single one of us can move forward a little bit. [[Dr. László Cook intervenes. Márta Demeter: Stadiums, small railway...]] Of course, there could be much greater progress if the economy could grow even more. I am confident that this will happen. However, we must say that we will spend 400 billion forints more on raising the public sector's wages. While wages in the public sector have fallen under socialist governments, it is growing significantly under our governance. We spend HUF 270 billion more on education, HUF 160 billion on health care, culture by 66 billion; municipalities can manage with more money. So it is safe to say that this is a different philosophy, a philosophy of growth. Next year, taxes will continue to drop. We still have 15 percent personal income tax. VAT is reduced to 5% for certain basic foods, which, I think, is very important for milk, poultry, eggs, because these are the ones that a lot of people buy. I think, by the way, this is another reduction in the overhead, because families have to pay less for these basic foods. [[Dr. László Kács intervenes several times.]] We also reduce VAT to 18% at restaurant services, and we would like to continue with this. Of course, if it serves to whiten the economy, we will continue to do so from 2018. And what is very important is that the vast majority of young people are on the Internet a lot, they hang out a lot on the Internet, and today, not only young people, of course, are reducing their VAT rates to 18%. All the measures I've been talking about are saving 30-40 thousand forints for families. I think that's a lot for a normal family. We will continue to increase the tax relief of families with two children, which will now increase to HUF 15,000. And we also spend a lot of money on home creation, because it is very important that we set up a home creation program so that every Hungarian person can have their own apartment or house. In 2017, HUF 211 billion will be spent on this, and by then the national community of home creation will start, which will give 3 million forints to a Hungarian person joining such a community in ten years. That's important, too. And then let's get to the improvements, because we're also going to make a lot of improvements. Before 2010, road development was reserved for motorways only and the lower road network was forgotten. Since 2010, we have renewed 1110 kilometers of road network, from more than 100 billion forints, and we will continue this program again this year, since this year we will renew roads in Hungary from 73 billion forints, worth more than 3 billion forints in Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County, my county. If you look at it, there will be such important roads as Highway 4, some of the sections of which are very marked main roads, Highway 46, certain sections of Highway 32, Mezőtúr-Mezőhek connecting road. My constituency must be affected by Routes 46 and Mezőtúr-Mezőhek. At the end of 2016, at the beginning of 2017, we will begin the renovation of the Martfű-Mezőhes, the Szelevény access road, the Kuncsorba-Túrkeve link road - this affects my constituency. There will be further road renovations in the county: the access road to the Berekfürdő, the linking road to the Gunnek-Tiszafüred, the access road to Karcag, the road to the Pustamonostor-Jászárosokházkház. And after the roads of Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County are in very poor condition, as the cost of the distribution of the kilometers is low, and their condition is very bad, so that we can catch up with other departments in the state of the road, Dr. Ildikó Bene and Ildikó have tabled an amendment to the budget, in which we ask the government for HUF 10 billion to renovate the lower road network of Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County. This could be a major investment that can renew many, many of the lower roads. It could result in roads that haven't been fully refurbished in 30-40 years, and now we're finally finishing. Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok county is the county which has not been connected to the motorway network in the last 26 years. The government will start construction of motorways M4 and M44 this year, and this will continue in 2017. These and similar motorways were scheduled for HUF 280 billion in 2017. I think it's very important. Overall, I can say that in 2017 all people in Hungary can make a little progress, not only in their material assets, but also in transport in Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County and in the whole country, also in road safety, thanks to the substantial spending on improving lower road networks and, of course, the construction of motorways and bypass roads. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-12-16	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Statement by Mr Róbert Sallai Benedek, LMP Group. You have the floor.
u2016-05-12-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday, I had the opportunity to present the amendments, the proposals that I believe can make the budget better, and which would be constructive in improving the quality of your governance in 2017. I would now like to respond to some general things, but before that, I would like to respond to some of the speeches made by its Members, if they allow me to do so. My fellow Member, Mr Hollik, began his speech by encouraging us to approach Europe in many respects. And that reminds me of a picture of the one-time man getting on the train from Nyíregyháza to Győr, and then, while the train is running, he goes to the back of the train and says, "I'm going back to Nyíregyháza." Well, that is roughly how we approach Europe in this respect, as my fellow Member Hollik said, and I would like to support this with a few things as to why this is so. My colleague Hollik also said in his speech that his generation is already more online than offline. And this is seen a little from his speech, as is the fact that he was practically born in Budapest, went to high school in Budapest, graduated from university in Budapest, and has a slightly smaller picture from all the rest of the country. Therefore, you probably see a selective section of the country, and it would be very good to have a look at a lot of things. I'll try to help you with that. Before I begin, I would like to say, however, that I should not seem destructive, that I have been particularly pleased and supported by the government's efforts since the second Orbán cabinet was set up to implement civil protection in relation to indoor smoking. I feel that all efforts in this area are useful and productive, but at the same time I draw your attention to the fact that it is very, very easy to increase the process that has already started in the eastern part of the country, which is basically related to the increase in the number of smugglers and their imports. The Prohibition Act in America has shown the experience that such a measure can always contribute to the development of organised crime. So I would ask you to take careful action on this issue, although I am sure the government will enjoy my support in order to reduce smoking. Finally, my fellow Member, Hollik, spoke about government efforts to promote mobility. However, I have heard this with some concern, because, in practice, with the need to increase mobility, they recognise that they cannot create local jobs; they do not want small and medium-sized enterprises locally and do not want a local livelihood. They're basically doing the kind of concentrated job creation that your ancestors are doing when we're installing a regional center or a big factory out of foreign capital, and everyone's got to go there, everyone's got to go there. [[9.30]] It is clear that there is an example of this type of mobility in Western Europe, not even one, but there is also the possibility of doing so, as is the road infrastructure, so that it can be done, and so is the income needed to maintain the car, which the citizens there have, while the Hungarians do not have at the moment. Therefore, I think all these expectations of mobility towards Hungarian society are still excessive, since much more needs to be done to build such a work structure. Although I maintain that the right direction would continue to be to speak not only in words about the disappearance of small and medium-sized enterprises, but also in action to do so. Continuing with the responses, I listened with interest to Mr Répássy's speech on the increase in the salary base for the prosecution and the judiciary, and I listened with interest to the development of the related income. At the same time, I have a lack of what my fellow Member Mrs Loránt Hegedűs said: we do not understand why they are not trying to achieve this expectation, this income convergence, for the whole public sector. If I am thinking about building a civil Hungary, then I never wonder how to raise the incomes of a sector, because the effort that Fidesz-KDNP is doing in this way continues to result in the disruption of society. If you really want to see the close-up and the strengthening of the middle class of civil Hungary at some level, then obviously you have to go in the direction of not comparing wages with one another, the expectations of the judiciary and the prosecutor's office about wages, but everything must be tied to the minimum wage. It can be said that the Prime Minister's wages are tied to the minimum wage and never be more than 20 times higher. And the only way to do that is to get the judiciary, the DA's office, the civil servants, and raise anyone's income is to pull society up and raise minimum wage expectations. A wage policy must be pursued that affects all citizens of the country and not always only a more loving or priority area for the government. I would like to offer this to you, and I believe that this issue, which my fellow Member Répássy has said, could be dealt with more effectively. I would also like to respond to the speech of our fellow Member, István, who is happy. It's been said several times that the government propaganda image is that every human being can take a step forward. Yeah, that's right, but most people don't realize that there's a ditch that the government dug up for him, which is why I'd be more careful about it, because in a lot of ways, this ditch doesn't bring the results or endanger the results they're talking about. Obviously, what my fellow Member has mentioned will continue to enrich only the rich and the billionaires, and not the little people. Just as I am glad that the VAT on restaurant consumption is falling, yet again we are not drawing up the segment that would need help most. I do not know how my fellow Members who are present came here to Parliament, but I am not convinced that by reducing the VAT on restaurant consumption, the vast majority of Hungarian society is providing substantial help in their livelihood, although I am obviously pleased with the efforts made in this regard. And then I'll get to talking about the general content. Mr Banai, State Secretary, has responded in a number of ways to my fellow opposition Members' speeches on how we are catching up, what is happening to Hungary, and how these catching-ups are achieved. I fully accept that if Mr State Secretary does not accept my opinion and considers it purely opposition propaganda, but let me mention specific figures, not the opposition. Professor Attila Chikán, an economist, I think he is familiar, I think he is a professionally acceptable, competent professional - he wrote a few months ago: .Dramatically our situation has deteriorated. Hungary was ranked 29th in 2001 and 38th in 2006, and is now ranked 63rd in the World Economic Forum's ranking of competitiveness. Of the 12 competitiveness indicators examined, the institutional system, including the overall performance of the government, is the worst in terms of business activity in the country, 97 and 90 respectively. I believe that they at some level contradict the statement drawn up by the Secretary of State regarding Hungary's catch-up. But I will continue to think of the Professor of Economics:.Hungary's international judgment has never been as bad as it is now since 1960. He thinks so as an academic. This is why credit rating agencies do not make up the country, even if the government says it, otherwise it is quite right that the economic indicators would already allow this. The reason for this is clearly to be considered, since this World Economic Forum, which the Professor refers to, has been constantly measuring the institutional background in the various countries since 2003, the infrastructure, the macroeconomic environment, health, basic education, factors to increase efficiency, higher education, vocational training, and I think that these survey data are well known to the State Secretary. And it is obvious that we are practically one of the worst in the region. At the moment, we are ranked 24 out of 28 EU Member States, only Cyprus, Slovakia, Croatia and Greece are behind us, nobody else. Bulgaria and Romania have passed us, even though they started on much worse terms. Obviously, this is not the result of your policy over the past six years, but is the result of the last 20 years or perhaps more bad government measures, but this has not been improved, because, as this report specifically states, this position has not changed in the last four years. We have not changed, we have not caught up in terms of competitiveness. The world ranking is led by Switzerland, Singapore, the United States, Finland and Germany, while Algeria and Romania have improved most of the seats. Romania has moved forward with 17 places, but Bulgaria is also ahead of us in 54th place. The success of the government's economic policy can obviously be the government's voice selling its own activities, but at the same time, if we take these factually - and I quoted it directly from non-Hungarian newspapers, which you call the Soros charters, but rather from independent periodicals - it is worth considering how far the catch-up they are talking about is going. What is it that we're still doing better? Obviously, this can also be the result of a longer process. Transparency International's report from this year: Hungary has slipped three places back on the world's most comprehensive corruption rankings, making it significantly worse in the corruption sensitivity index. What I am saying is important, and I have highlighted the names of the countries of northern Europe, as I have done now, because there are mostly North European countries here: Denmark with 91 points, the second Finland, the third Sweden with 89 points. So here are the countries with the best corruption indicators. After them comes New Zealand and Holland. Why is it important - and I will come back to it - how the North European countries and the Netherlands stand against us in some other indicators? Today, professional analyses say that the most successful economic development is the development of buddy capitalism in Hungary. This means that businessmen close to government circles can grow significantly. István Garancsi, László Szíj and Lőrinc Mészáros are the names of these reports. Obviously, the members of the government also have information on social perception in this regard. Overall, Hungary was rated at 51 points at the moment, with which it was placed in 51th place together with Slovakia, Croatia and Bahrain. So that's how it is at this time of year. And who really points forward and is headed for Europe if this is mentioned regularly? He is an absolute winner in this regard, as I did economically, but I did not mention just now, it was the Czech Republic, which confirmed it in every respect. Hungary's performance has deteriorated not only in the region but also in the European Union. Last year Hungary finished 22-24 of the 28 Member States, Hungary was increasingly exposed to corruption, 20th in 2013 and 19th in 2012 in the European Union with 27 members at the time. How does that relate specifically to what you said? You've talked about catching up on incomes and how average incomes are growing. Well, the reason the average incomes are increasing is because there is a government that supports billionaires and helps them, not only with the single-key girlfriend, but with the support policy itself. If we go through government efforts and activities, forgive me for setting an example from home: if we look at agricultural subsidies, it is not that we see small cooperatives or small farmers in even distribution. No! But by far, the most money, 72 percent of the total amount of support, is taken by only 10 percent, and the agricultural barons are in the lead with Tamás Leisztinger, Sándor Csányi, and we give them the subsidies. What does that mean? Of course the average income is increasing. I'll tell you why it's growing. [[9.40]] Sándor Csányi was able to increase his assets by 21 percent by 2015; László Bige by 9.4 percent; Sándor Demján by 29 percent; Wide Gábor 8.7 percent; Tibor Veres 14 percent; György Gattyán 6.7 percent; György Wáberer 12 percent. There is a long list of how billionaires are getting rich in Hungary, because none of them fell back; there is no one among the most sought after Hungarian people... Is that how you watch average income? They look at the income of ten Hungarian villages and such people, and they can show how much the average income has increased, but this does not mean that catch-up is real, does not mean that there is a substantial income supplement or catch-up for Europe on the major social groups. It's not like that. Average incomes are increasing because the social groups that you are benefiting from - Hungarian billionaires, politicians - are getting richer and they are pulling up average incomes. Obviously, on the other hand, there is another statistic, and there is something else that can be shown. I don't know - also forgive me, I never know who the Soros hirer is, who doesn't - how objective Eurostat data is; Eurostat says that although the rates are very different, children live in difficult circumstances in all Member States: 51 percent of children in Romania and 45 percent in Bulgaria are at risk of poverty, and Hungary is the third place in the region 41.4 percent. Please, we have the worst performances in this regard, and what are we seeing again? Denmark, Sweden and Finland have the lowest risk of child poverty. And the reason these few countries, Denmark, Sweden, Finland, come up again and again, and sometimes Austria, the Netherlands, is because the interesting thing is that they have different tax policies. For me, the biggest shock in government communication was when I recently received in my mailbox the little booklet entitled.Hungary performs better, and on the first page they show how you deal with it. And for example, Denmark, Sweden, the Netherlands have 40-50 percent of the most wanted groups, while Hungary has 16. Please, you're arguing how good it is for us? No indicator brings it, and in any way, in economic competitiveness, in the fight against poverty, in the fight against corruption, countries that pursue completely different tax policies are shown to be fully effective, while with your policy, 15 per cent sja and a lot of other measures, I always stress that they are rich not only because of her, but also because of the aid policy and the help of the tax system, and Hungary can lead to these indicators. And so, obviously, we can see this result, that you are talking about Hungary closing up to Europe, and in fact, the country is breaking apart, and billionaires are getting rich and growing, while people living in poverty are getting very poor. They may not consider it left-wing intrigue and all kinds of Soros-bérence communication if I refer to the study of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and the Maltese Charity Service, who say that 30-50 thousand children are starving in Hungary every day; the number of minors who are starving periodically - on weekends, during school breaks - reaches 200 thousand. Please, this is what Hungary is doing better, and this is what is fooling the indicators somewhat, and that is why these statistics, which we are talking about, how Hungary is catching up on, are hard to accept at some level, because those who are monitoring these processes can see to a significant extent that we are actually experiencing completely different indicators of results. And if we look at whether emigration is about Hungary, the number of people - which my opposition colleagues have already talked about - who imagine their future abroad, how it will turn out; if they look at the fact that only in 2015 - and, I think, the Secretary of State is aware of that - the elimination of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary has reached its peak three times in April, sometime in the summer and autumn, the small businesses will cease to exist. The employment potential for the countryside, for the masses, outside the county towns and the capital, is significantly deteriorating downhill. And the impact that you are regularly saying - and I agree with that - is that Hungary's European Union peripheral position determines its political positions, and the same is happening in Hungary. The fact that Hungary has a centralised, very highly centralised state structure, and there are peripherals throughout the country, results in Eurostat data that ranks our four regions among the worst in Europe. What we see in Europe is that Hungary is on the periphery, this is what a significant part of the counties on the periphery of Hungary feel. And it's not just income, it's not just economic development, it's how you feel about it. I also heard with interest the part of my fellow Member István Happy's contribution when he spoke about the resources for road network development. Just yesterday, I was talking about a third of the government's spending on this, compared to what they're collecting, but let me give you specific examples. The more interesting parts of the budget law are the numbers, we look at them, but there is, for example, Annex 2, which relates to the financing of municipalities. It basically determines that 4 million 580,000 HUF/person is the basic support of the municipalities, and then uses a formula for this, but it does not try in any way to deal with the situation that other tax processes help the big ones. Because economic development in Hungary is done by building a motorway somewhere, then the industry can go there; if the industry goes there, it will receive a special support and it will be able to create, say, a car factory or a assembly plant or a rubber plant or a Mercedes factory or anything near the motorway. From the time the factory settled there, there will be a job in that place, and there will be substantial industrial production in that place. And the substantial industrial production produces the local business tax for that small region or for that settlement, while for those who did not have a motorway and, as a result, did not have a major investment, there is no local business tax. Of the settlements that I visited in the last two years, there was a pile of them that had zero forints of local industrialisation tax revenue, some of them had 27 thousand forints, and they had to farm from it. Therefore, the municipal funding system is bad, as is the case, because as long as the small ones are kept in the background and we try to give them less and less, we will achieve the same result as the area payment: for those who have much, let those who have little and small be strengthened - and that is what is unacceptable. Returning to the question of financing the road network, this is also happening. In a city with county rights, in the capital city, 470 thousand forints/km for the maintenance of municipal roads, the 10-40 thousand for the 295,000 and the 227 thousand for the under 10 thousand. The smaller the person, the less money we give him. Shouldn't it be the other way around? Shouldn't we have more resources to catch up on? Overall, I believe that there are many indicators and figures to be seen in this budget. I would like to thank the Secretary of State and my fellow members of the Government for not expecting us to sing praises about this budget, but I would also like them to try to look at the financial ambition, economic ambition and tax policy they are pursuing from a slightly different perspective, because the concrete results may not be the same as the average statistics that are regularly expressed here as arguments. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Gábor Fodor applauds.]]
u2016-05-12-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Charles Czibere, Ministry of Human Resources. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-12-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I would like to comment specifically on three extended sentences on poverty, child hunger and child poverty data in relation to this comment. One is that we work from the same source. I consider it an important achievement that there is data security here in the House and in the Community squares, and that everyone is working from the data of the HCSO and Eurostat, which makes it possible to have a rational debate. Based on these data, it can be concluded that in 2013, there has been a trend shift in all poverty data since 2013, in all three factors of poverty risk data, deprivation, material deprivation data, employment data, labour poverty data and income poverty data. In recent days, the HCSO completed its 2015 survey; we hope that this trend will continue; these data are expected to be published towards the end of the year, in November. So there has been a trend turn, and this has been confirmed by all research institutions, and these data are constantly improving in all dimensions, which does not mean that leaning back does not mean that there is no significant task ahead of us, but we think that we need to assess the catch-up, income policy and social policy measures that have led us here and that we need to go further. Another is the poverty rate for children. The poverty rate for children is 25 per cent based on Eurostat data, and if we deduct from these the HUFed value of those forinted social policy expenditures, such as benefits in kind, expert calculations show a 4 to 4.5 percentage point decrease, which means that if we HUFed these, the poverty rate in this group would be about 21 per cent, 21 per cent the EU average. It is important to add these to this question. [[9.50]] The third extended sentence relates to hunger. At the same time, when the number of children under the age of six was able to make a significant increase in the children's meals last year - from 39 thousand to 89 thousand forints in the case of those under the age of six, the number of participants increased three and a half times during the free children's meals during the school year, for example in the nursery and kindergarten - and when, from 1 January 2016, this year in all breaks, that is, during spring break, summer break, autumn and winter break, and on their days, the daily hot meal could no longer be offered by tender, optionally, as an optional municipal optional task, but also required to ensure that 208 thousand disadvantaged and cumulative disadvantaged children are required to have a public task, and finance this budget, I think it was a significant step in this area last year and this year as well. Again, we do not claim that there is a leaning back, and then we are ready, but these two important steps must be recognised precisely in your direction, and I very much hope that we will be able to continue on this path in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-12-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, An independent Member, Zsuzsanna Szelényi, would now speak, but he is not in the room. I would like to ask Mr Gábor Fodor, an independent Member, if he would like to speak now or at the time you indicated later. [[On the mark of Gábor Fodor:]] I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2016-05-12-21	Thank you, Mr. President. Then I'd take that chance, and I'll speak up now. I would like to welcome the Members of Parliament, the Secretary-General, the President, and allow me to express the position of the Liberal Party on the budget in a few words, in the short time at my disposal, as we have to share it with several Members at this time. First of all, I would like to start by saying that it is natural in general in a budget debate... - it would be a rare exception if the opposition were to support the government budget, and not because it is the opposition's job not to support proposals, but rather to support them, if it pleases, its task as enshrined in the Constitution, its task as a result of democratic rights, is to draw attention to contradictions and errors, to exercise criticism of a budget submitted, because the majority of the government is to accept the budget in general. So this is the natural and basic position. Obviously, I would also like to make critical remarks to the budget, because I think that there is something to be criticised. This has already been done by my opposition colleagues in a number of elements, and I would like to draw attention to some other contexts and, in some respects, rhyme with some opposition contributions as I have said. First of all, I would like to start by saying that this budget is an act, so we need to be clear about this. Acting for several reasons. On the one hand, it will be presented to Parliament as if there were fantastic progress, excellent figures, and the budget reflects enormous results, significant economic progress and progress. I do not want to question certain elements of this because I also approve as liberal that we strive to reduce public debt, which is a natural thing for all governments since the change of regime, and I note that it is a legitimate expectation from governments. Some people can do it, some people want to, but because of the circumstances, they don't know, and some people have better circumstances, so it's a good effort. It is a good effort to try to meet the Maastricht criteria, including the criteria for a 3 percent deficit. These are all the right, fundamental things that we rightly expect from a budget submitted, either on the opposition side or from a government side. However, because I say that it is an act, it is, among other things, that when there is talk of an increase in certain areas, among other things, Minister Mihály Varga talked about this pulpit from here, then to see that in many areas where society would expect real progress - education, health - in these areas, in these areas, they are, by the way, referring to the 2015 appropriations, that is the case, not actually to the appropriations for 2016, so not to those which, in the meantime, have increased by various benefits. So they are working with basic numbers that do not include the support, the benefits that have been, for example in the field of education, fought for or received by the sphere. That's why it's a hoax. In other respects, this budget is also an act because Parliament has not long since adopted the amendment of the Public Finance Act here, which basically means that the government can convert the budget at any time without the approval of Parliament, in fact almost by regulation. So we can talk, we can argue on a number of issues, but without the consent of the Parliament, the government now has such a great deal of room for manoeuvre in shaping the budget that we need to ask this question, what we are actually talking about here. But what we are talking about here, I would also like to say some substantive things about this, because in addition to the fact that the budget is an act, there are interesting and surprising items in it. On the one hand, what is interesting in itself is that we have said this in the previous budgetary debates that we are sitting here in May and we are talking about the budget. We do not think that it is right for the budget debate to take place so early in the middle of the year. Among other things, we do not think it is right because a number of items, a number of processes are not yet visible, which could be important for the year. Moreover, the confusion in the budget is also reflected in the fact that many institutions are included, by the way, in the budget which the government has announced will be abolished. To give you an example: here is the case of the KLIK, of course in the budget with your 540 billion. The government has said many times that it will cease, it will be transformed, it will be small KLIKs, it will not be, it will not be in this form, it will not be, so we have heard thousands of statements. We don't know what it's gonna be like yet, but one thing's for sure, they always told us it wasn't gonna happen. Compared to this, the budget includes this institution itself with co-ordinated funds. But that's not the only movement we see. For example, there is the nearly 100 billion-dollar Paks appropriation, which is politically and from another point of view, in itself. In all respects, it is unacceptable for us liberals to see those unacceptable aspects of such close economic and political cooperation with Russia now in the budget. But here is also symbolically the movement that triggers so much debate in Hungarian society, the move of the government to Castle. The budget includes 53.5 billion, which we consider unacceptable in all respects, because of its political and historical symbolism, and we do not think that the country is in a position to do so today. And here are the stadium constructions, the stadium building programme, on which we cannot stress enough how unnecessary and pointless it is, how many other smart places would be in the budget, through the many educational and health spheres mentioned, there would be countless other concrete programmes where it would make sense to spend this money. But the fact that the elections are approaching reflects the budget, because we also find a programme in the budget that bears the cover name of the modern cities. In fact, modern cities serve only to announce what kind of subsidies these cities will receive when the Prime Minister visits certain places, some cities, when preparing for the elections. This represents a 50 billion-dollar item in the budget, which is preparing for elections, in the spirit of preparing for elections, a sort of division. Well, given that time has also progressed, let me say once again, illustrated by these few examples, that, unfortunately, this budget is a hoax, unfortunately it is a charade, essentially the government has a free hand in shaping and modifying the budget, so that and by means of the contradictions already mentioned, it cannot be supported by liberals. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-05-12-22	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The speaker will be Erika KISSÉ KELES. I give you the floor, Madam Speaker.
u2016-05-12-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Spoštovani Predsednik, spoštovane gospe Poslanke in gospodje Poslanci, cenjeni Zbor! Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Congressmen, Dear House, The draft budget of the Hungarian State at all times, including the draft bill on Hungary's central budget for 2017, submitted by the Government, will also determine the budgetary support amounts of the communities of nationalities living and operating in Hungary, in accordance with the relevant laws on the rights of nationalities, public education, public finances, self-government and other relevant laws, thereby helping to preserve the cultural diversity of Hungary. [[10.00]] T/10377 by the Government of Hungary The draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2017 submitted under number XX. Chapter 21, Chapter 21, Chapter 57, provides for the appropriation for the support of national minority self-governments and their institutions, as well as the national minority media. Chapter 60 provides support for national minority institutions for investment, renovation and tendering. My colleagues have spoken and spoken about the evolution of these items and the justification for their use. Support for local minority self-governments is set out in Chapter 58. Chapter 56 sets out the amount of funding that can be used for the operation of national minority NGOs, to which our organisations can obtain in tender form to care for the intellectual and material values of Hungarian nationalities, cultural events, camps in language environments, and further education of ethnic teachers with the assistance of the mother countries. In the field of primary and secondary school camps in a native environment, intensive use of ethnic language and the knowledge and transfer of the elements of ethnic culture, these are crucial. This is why the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities calls for an increase of HUF 270 million in 2016 in the 2017 central budget allocation. The 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. Act and the 2011 National Public Education Act CXC. Law enforces educational interests, which are equivalent to the cultural autonomy of nationalities. National education and education will take place in the Hungarian system of public education. The law on the rights of nationalities allows the national self-government, as defined in the National Public Education Act, to participate in the implementation of state and municipal tasks related to pre-school education, school education and education, college education and education of national minorities. In line with this, the National Public Education Act 74. § 7 states that the local government of nationality may take over the right of maintenance of the institution established for the kindergarten education and education of persons belonging to the nationality in a settlement inhabited by nationality by public education contract from the local government or from the state. So today, nearly 50 public education institutions are maintaining national or municipal minority self-governments, some of which are teaching and teaching nationality in the operation of these municipalities. The budgetary background of this is T/10377. Draft Act No XX on the Central Budget for 2017 This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years in accordance with Article 21 of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1). For nationalities, it is crucial to raise the mother tongue or mother tongue of children and young people, to develop nationality awareness, linguistic, cultural identity. Therefore, through public education agreements with the Ministry of Human Resources, 50/2013 With additional support under the EMMI Regulation, the current central budget should provide resources for national education and education in the said public education institutions. The amount entered in the article in 2016 is HUF 1 billion 412 million, which is requested by the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary to increase by HUF 100 million in the 2017 budget. This increase of 7.1 per cent is justified by the maintenance of institutions adopted by other national authorities. The additional support is needed by the maintenance minority self-governments on account of the additional tasks arising from the provision of nationality education. In addition, 552 state-owned institutions carry out national education in one of the legal forms of education. Nationals living in Hungary are expected to be able to fulfil the tasks related to nationality - native or bilingual cultural events strengthening dual identity, maintaining relations with the mother country - with regard to financial resources in these institutions at all times. We are interested in ensuring that students of nationalities also receive quality ethnic education in secondary schools, so that local vocational education and training also ensures the knowledge of the professional lexiques of the nationality language required there. It is well known that children today have a modest knowledge of language from the family circle, so there is a greater responsibility for ethnic public education institutions in this area. It can be said that most of Hungary's ethnicities depend on the survival of the mother tongue for posterity in ethnic schools, well-trained educators and teachers. In higher education institutions, it is possible and necessary to prepare our kindergarten teachers, teachers, grammar teachers and bilingual schools for professionals who are also well qualified for bilingual education. It is therefore important that the 2017 central budget continues to ensure education and further training in higher education in accordance with the National Higher Education Act. 31 of the National Rights Act. In its section of the Act on the Central Budget, it is stated that the State ensures the publication of the textbooks necessary for the education of nationalities, the production of teaching equipment, within the limits laid down by the Law on the Central Budget. This will also be needed by our communities in the future in order to revise the future framework curricula and, as a result, to renew individual textbooks. The Act on the Rights of Nationalities 151. The Minister responsible for nationality policy may establish scholarships for pupils participating in ethnic education and public education under the conditions and in the manner laid down in the decree of the Minister responsible for nationality policy. The current ethnic education scholarship system further strengthens the desire of young people to learn their mother tongue and helps children of ethnic minorities who are often disadvantaged and living in difficult social conditions to continue their higher education. Therefore, the presence of this item in the budget in the EMMI budget chapter is also very important for nationalities. I respectfully ask you to make a decision in the course of the hearing and adoption of the bill in the light of what I have said. Hvala za posornost! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-12-24	Thank you very much, Madam Speaker. Dear Parliament, As no one has applied for a two-minute speech, we will now continue with the speeches by Members. I give the floor to Member István Horváth, Fidesz Group. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2016-05-12-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The budget in front of us will provide further catching up for rural Hungary. It strengthens the preservation, further expansion of rural jobs and the preservation of the rural population. Thanks to the sound budget and predictable economic policy of previous years, it will provide an additional opportunity for job-creating investments in rural areas. The budget ahead will enable the development of a programme to modernise rural cities, increase their competitiveness and cultural attractiveness and improve their quality of life. [[10.10]] For EU programmes, maximum use of resources is a priority in order to make development resources available to beneficiaries as soon as possible. I would therefore like to highlight the continuous, planned publication of rural development programmes, the programmes guarantee equal opportunities for applicants and the favourable funding for implementation in the event of winning applications. The budget will ensure that VAT reductions started in previous years are extended and continued, in particular, for basic foods. Tax cuts require political courage and economic strength. Political courage and determination have always been in the governance of the Fidesz-KDNP, but it has taken a consistent economic policy over the past six years to have economic power to reduce VAT. In 2014, by adopting the proposal under the pig programme, the government reduced the VAT rate to 5% for live pigs and half-carcases as a first step. In order to detect the impact of the whitening of the economy and, indirectly, the benefits of the other effects of the pig program, I would like to say that we have seen interesting statistical figures in the review of the last two or three years. While some 3.7 million live pigs were slaughtered in the Hungarian slaughterhouses before the VAT reduction in 2013, the number of slaughters in our slaughterhouses exceeded 4.5 million in 2015 after the VAT reduction. So in two years, the official slaughter of live pigs in Hungary increased by 20 percent. Among other things, I think that the bleaching effect of VAT reductions and VAT reductions has also played a very important role. So it can be said that the measures and programmes that started in 2014 have fulfilled the economic and economic whitening effects that decision-makers expected from these decisions. As a result, VAT reductions continued in 2015 and the cattle, sheep and goat sectors were beneficiaries, and the government took a very serious and very brave step from 2016. This is obviously also due to the economic strength that we have already talked about, that we have started a significant reduction in VAT not only on transition production routes, but also on other product routes, on daily food and basic food, which also has very important budgetary implications. From 2016, the VAT on pig meat directly used by the population was reduced to 5 per cent, the direct effect of which was an 18 per cent reduction in the retail chain. This allowed him to stay in the register of Hungarian families for some HUF 26 billion this year. The effects of the VAT reduction are clear. In January 2016, pig meat sales increased by 20 percent and in February 2016 by 16 percent. As of 2017, the VAT will be reduced to 5% for poultry meat, eggs and fresh milk. These measures will leave tens of billions of HUF in the register of Hungarian families in 2017. This can be planned and done for approximately HUF 35 and HUF 50 billion, and if we take into account the additional resources for families resulting from the VAT reduction of some HUF 25 billion in 2016, we can say that in the two years we have taken measures in the area of VAT reduction that will leave some HUF 60 to 80 billion additional resources in the Hungarian family register, so that the families can spend more on themselves and we can spend so much more on our children. These foods have never had such a low sales tax. Under the former socialist-liberal governments, whose representatives are true, there are few, but they are sitting here, and even if they are not loud around us, they are always skeptical about reducing the government's VAT, they were almost only VAT increases, but they forget that. [[Márta Demeter: Who raised VAT to 27 percent?]] The current government not only promises, but also further reduces the VAT rates from 2017, relying on the burden of economic stability it produces. Along with the planned other VAT measures and an increase in income tax benefits, a retired couple will stay with an average of HUF 15-20 on average and HUF 80-85,000 on two children for the future. VAT cuts also have a huge role to play in reducing the black economy. I think that I have been a very good example of this with live pigs and half-swine, and I think that we also have very serious expectations for fresh milk in terms of the effects of VAT reductions, as this sector is also heavily burdened by the black economy, so we will also increase the competitiveness of Hungarian dairy producers. We have a successful series of VAT cuts behind us, with which the players of an entire production course, producers, traders, but most of all consumers, and the loss of budget revenue will remain within the planned limits, and in some cases this reduction will not be achieved. Thus, due to the whitening of the sectors, tax revenues will also appear in the budget. I respectfully ask this House to support the budget for rural development, the rural people and the rural economy that we have in front of us, so that, thanks to these measures, we can expand the possibilities in the family register of Hungarian families by tens of billions forints, which can be used to increase their children's sense of comfort. Thank you for your attention and for the support of the budget. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-12-26	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Statement will be made by Mrs Márta Demeter, MSZP Group. I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-05-12-27	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to say to Mr Horváth about extending the possibilities for families, that I do not know if he knows who raised the VAT to a record high level in Europe, to 27 percent. It was Fidesz, the Orbán government, that raised the VAT to such a level. [[Tamás Vargha: Personal income tax is less!]] So much for options. For years, we have been introducing on the part of the MSZP amendments and legislative proposals to reduce the VAT on basic foods to 5%, as this affects everyone, everyone buys basic food. So far, the staff of their ears has not been moved, for years it has been voted without a word. I think the cuts you've just said are really great, and that should be extended. We've been talking about this for years, they would have had the chance, but they didn't do anything. I would like to respond to two sentences for the things you have said to Mr. Secretary of State of Banai. He mentioned that 500,000 people were in the real economy. You're right, Mr. Secretary, but not in Hungary. Hundreds of thousands of young people have gone abroad to work, and we know very well that their work is also included in employment data. If we are talking about the reserve and how predictable it is and how it exists, I would remind you that in 2015 we had to increase the reserve twice a year. So much for the predictability of the budget. In fact, if we are talking about the approximation of the wages of nurses and residents to the European wage level, it is important to mention that in Western Europe, a nurse earns an average of EUR 2 thousand and a resident earns EUR 3 thousand. We are now around EUR 750 at Slovakia's level. So EUR 3 000 is against EUR 750. I think there's still plenty of room for improvement. Allow me to say a few sentences about the budget of the Hungarian Defence Office and the Ministry of Defence. If I would like to briefly summarize what happened to the Hungarian Defence Agency in the last seven years, I have to say that in 2010, he was sick, in 2011 he was hospitalized, there for years, in 2016, the ventilator was simply hooked up, and now, in 2017, perhaps, it seems that the oxygen tank is also a little opened up to him. That's how I can describe the situation. [[10.20]] And that is where we should again thank soldiers, defence workers, who, by exerting their strength, actually perform superhumanly every day and have done their job excellently in recent years, in fact in extremely difficult working conditions. If we look at the defence budget, we can clearly say that the budget has never been below 1 percent since the change of regime until 2010, since more than 200 billion forints were withdrawn from this huge system, because we all know that tens of thousands of people are employed by the Hungarian Defence Agency, and we are talking about a huge structure, with a lot of technical tools, a lot of very outdated technical tools. This was the situation in which, in addition, a withdrawal of more than 200 billion has been made to the Hungarian Defence Office, and the budget is still below 1 percent, and in 2017 it will be 0.95% of GDP. I would like to mention a few positives then, as I said in the short summary that the oxygen bottle is now being opened, and actually there are positives in the 2017 budget. In 2017 the cost of relishing will increase by HUF 11 billion. This is basically about maintenance; I think that this is something that must be done in any way, because we see, unfortunately, what conditions are there, this is absolutely necessary. In fact, the budget contains HUF 28 billion in stockpiling expenditure, which, hopefully, will be spent on new investments. The problem is that it doesn't seem to see what you're going to spend this 28 billion HUF on, because while, by the way, certain developments and programs have been constantly visible in the chapter volume of the Ministry and the Defence Department, such as the Gripen lease, the Gripen program, the car procurement programme and the field management and management capabilities, these are constantly reflected in the budget, and the long-term impact is also seen in this by years. At this HUF 28 billion, this story is completely obscured, and it is clear that the approved ten-year development plan, which, unfortunately, has been secret for years, and the elements of the defence policy program can be in this additional source, but we do not know what the specifics are. This is also worrying about the use of resources, since, I say, it is a positive thing that this HUF 28 billion appears, but in terms of use, we cannot forget that the Parliament adopted - with the majority of governments - the law on security and defence procurement, which otherwise included procurement transactions, and provides such opportunities at the statutory level as we can see in 2014, for example, in the purchase of Mi-8 helicopters; right, all kinds of announcements, without a tender, these machines appeared out of nowhere in almost a few days. And there was a similar incident, without a notice or a tender, in connection with the purchase of MD helicopters by the Ministry of Interior just about a month and a half ago. So these are the procedures that the law adopted by you actually raises to the legal level and expands the scope of these unbidden procurements with the total exclusion of the public. So I'm afraid that if this source is used, it can happen in this way. Some kind of insurance, I think it's necessary to figure that out. We have told Parliament not to adopt this Defence Procurement Act, and to this day we still believe that this should not be kept in force. There is a need for law in this area, but it must actually show balance and transparency. And I would add that this is important not only because of the confidence in Hungary, because it is the Hungarian population that maintains and develops the Hungarian defence from its tax forints - of course, if the government decides so - but also because of international transparency, because we are in a federal system, and procurements, I think can always be a sensitive topic. I would also like to highlight a positive point: it is about state support for civil society organisations active in defence. There is a significant rise in this area, and I think that is very commendable. It can also be seen that the 2017 budget includes the 5% salary improvement promised by the government. I think it's a very good thing. Also, the defense stipend shows a slight increase. I would like to draw attention to the fact that neither the public service salary fund, which still has a rate of HUF 38 650, changes anything, nor the civil servants who work in the military as civil servants, receive no additional resources. I think that this is untenable, since 2008 these two circles and two stocks have not had any such wage development, which must be remedied in any way. We know that there is a huge shortage of staff at the Hungarian Defence Office, 5500 people admitted by the Chief of Staff, but it is likely that we are talking about a larger number, and that the staff is incredibly overwhelmed, they are under enormous strain. This cannot be pushed to the maximum, and I already think that the stock is at 120 percent, but it is necessary to fill the workforce and also to improve salaries. And before the government says at any time that the number of defences has increased by 200, I would like to state here that there is an increase in the number of defences of 200, but this is due to the integration of the Károlyi Hospital in Újpest into the Honvéd Hospital, which, by the way, I think is causing some serious complications in Újpesten, so it affects about 160,000 people that they are not going to the Károlyi Hospital now, if they need medical attention. Here, however, I would like to highlight the huge shortage of doctors, which seems to be present in all health care in Hungary, and there is now a crisis in Hungary. By the way, the Hungarian Defence Office is not spared in this respect either, and it turned out at a recent conference that only 50 percent of the troops lacked, so only half of the statuses are uploaded. And it turned out at the conference that a third of the operations couldn't be covered by health insurance. Allow me to quote a specific sentence about the conference: - Based on all of this, it is clear that the lack of military doctors is a threat to the operation of the Hungarian Defence Forces. In the news related to this, there have been some revelations from the Ministry of Defence that they may be thinking about creating a career and some solution; I think that it is really very necessary to do so, and this must be done as soon as possible, since this state is now unsustainable. I would like to point out that the budget of the Military National Security Service does not contain any additional resources for 2017, and that the possibility of spending in real estate alone will increase by HUF 500 million. I think we all see what the security policy environment is like and how it changes, how the Hungarian Defence and Organizations, including the service, can be subjected to, and how their tasks are increasing, given this, I think that there should be greater resources here. To date, it is clear that the Hungarian Football Academy Foundation is very important to the Ministry's support, again 50 million forints of support is appointed for this year. I think that this should be more at the Social Policy Public Foundation, which will now have an appropriation of HUF 63 million by 2017. Allow me to point out that in 2015, the aid applications submitted, i.e. when the flock applied for aid, were 2212 times and in 2015 an advance payment was submitted in 1600 cases. [[10.30]] So these figures, which show that yes, there has been a salary improvement, are also the fact that only part of the stock is affected, since it has not affected those in the status of civil servants at all, and it is still apparent to this day that the Hungarian Defence Forces are in a difficult situation. So, thinking specifically about the future, and in order to remedy the current situation of the stock, it is necessary to further refine the course of life and to give real appreciation, which must be expressed not only in salaries, but also in improving working conditions, so that there is at all a tool at the Hungarian Defence Office that the staff can use. To date, neither the question of purchasing transport helicopters is visible in the budget - I have said many times here among the walls of the House, I would not go into the details, but it has been promised continuously since 2014, and it is a matter of life, not only from a military point of view, but also from a civil and civil point of view, it is a matter of vital importance that the Hungarian Defence Agency should be operational helicopters - and the renewal of the rigid winged transport capacity is not visible for a moment, I think, too, unfortunately. So there's something you need to do about it. It does not appear in the budget what János Lázár mentioned in a half sentence a question about the members of the former Honvéd Health Fund that, perhaps, at the budget, in some form - benefit, in other forms - they might be able to get back the money that the government is thinking about. Well, he may be thinking, but, let's just say, in his 17 budget, it doesn't seem like the people whose money is missing in the Buda-Cash Brokerhouse scandal would get it back. And I'm telling you, we're talking military, police, national security workers' money. It is clear that the Hungarian Defence Office needs to be uploaded. In this connection, we had a proposal for a resolution, which was voted off by the government. I believe that, even if they did not support the proposal, it is in the interests of the majority of the government and the Ministry of Defence to upload the Hungarian Defence Forces. So, in short, we can describe the situation of the Hungarian Defence Forces by showing the minimum increase of 0.1 percent to.17, as stated by the Government in its resolution. I am glad that, at least in the summer, the country will not be ashamed to arrive in Warsaw, but it is also true that this means that the oxygen tank has just been opened to the ventilator, which does not mean that the patient will be able to get up and walk. So I think we need a much more consistent policy. The responsibility of policy is to ensure the necessary resources and proper functioning and development of the organisation which is one of the most important guarantees of the security of Hungary's citizens. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-12-28	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Vargha, Secretary of State, Ministry of Defence. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-05-12-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to thank the Member woman for recognising the performance that the Hungarian soldiers have performed in the last year; she will do this every time, thank her for the ability to think together and for our thinking in the same way. I also thank you for seeing the positives in the budget, because they are indeed in it and they are visible. Madam Congresswoman spoke of the last seven years - this is the 2017 budget, and she went back seven years in time until 2010 - and said that seven years ago, in 2010, we received a patient at the change of government. If we go back a few more years until 2002 - because we have to go back because we have to examine why the patient was sick in 2010 and why he was in need of hospital treatment - we see that after 2002 the two successive socialist governments were then defence ministers, first Ferenc Juhász, then under the leadership of Imre Szekeres, consistently and ruthlessly degenerated and dismantled the Hungarian Defence Forces, and the patient became seriously ill by 2010 due to their activities. To do this, we must also count on the work that has been done - in quotes - by destroying the Hungarian economy. So not only was the Hungarian Defence Forces in bad condition in 2010, but the country was also in bad condition, and in 2010 we started systematically, of course step by step, to restore the economy, as this is the key to the development of the Hungarian Defence Forces. It was not a withdrawal of funds, but a consideration of economic realities, which did not allow the budget to be extended at the time. But then the Hungarian government agreed in a government resolution that it would not cut the Hungarian Defence budget, and also agreed to increase it by 0.1 per cent of GDP from 2016, because at that time we saw that the Hungarian budget would be in a state in which the Hungarian Defence and Defence Ministry's budget could be increased. So this is the situation in 2010, the condition of the patient is the result of events from 2002 to 2010. Congresswoman mentioned the purchases. Indeed, the increase of some 20 per cent - with which the rate of the defence budget increases to around 0.9 per cent of GDP - is the most important part, the salary of the soldier, the Hungarian soldier, which is increased by 30 per cent in the last year, by 5 per cent in the next four years compared to the base at that time on 1 January. I believe that our soldiers, who are doing what they have sworn to do at this moment and in these moments, defend Hungary, the Hungarian border, Europe, the European border, they do deserve it, because if we recall, before 2002, there was a significant increase in the salary of the Hungarian Defence Office during the first Orbán government. So, on the one hand, the expansion of resources provides cover for this. And since the highest value is the soldier, the soldier, and the development of his personal equipment, besides the salary, is the other development focus that we focus on, the modernization of individual equipment, because the soldier feels like a soldier because he has a uniform, he has a gun, he has equipment. This is therefore the most important one in the coming year. Congresswoman also mentioned Károlyi Hospital, as the Hungarian Defence Office is part of the Hungarian Defence Hospital, the Health Centre. The world is not moving in the direction of hospitalization within a hospital, nor within a city, in terms of hospital care, to provide patients with separate buildings within a hospital, a pavilion system, and the world is not moving towards many small hospitals within a city. The Honvéd Hospital is the most modern hospital in Hungary. I think that those in Budapest who are now in the care area of the Honvéd Hospital can heal in one of the most modern hospitals in Hungary in the future, and this is not a step back, but a step forward, as the world is moving this way. Sport is very important, because sports, training, soldiering and defence are very related concepts. We would also like to move forward in this time, as it is very important for young people, young men and young women to start their adult lives as able-bodied, trained young people today, including sport. So I think that support for sport and support for sport as education will continue to be our focus in the future. [[10.40]] Congresswoman has mentioned again the acquisition of helicopters and the ability to use a rigid wing. If we look back over the last seven years, we see that every time the Hungarian economy was able to take a step forward, the budget also took a step forward. He mentioned the VAT reduction at the beginning of his speech. I don't remember exactly the chronology of VAT reductions between 2002 and 2010, and I remember that before the 2006 elections, the Socialist Party, the coalition at that time, reduced the VAT, and then after winning the election, raised it back to the level it reduced it from - it was just an election course. I'm sure everyone here in Hungary remembers this well. So our philosophy is that personal income tax rates are low, 15%, and in VAT payments this is a world of solidarity, I think, the budget, state money... - it's not the state's money, it's all our money, and we're all putting our own share in our common money through paid contributions, taxes, social security contributions, pension contributions. This is Hungary's common budget and common money. Our philosophy is that in this way we can make it somewhat fair to put everyone in the common register in proportion to their strength and abilities, and when we can take a step forward. Both abilities are, of course, very important: both the rotating wing and the rigid wing capability, and they will certainly take place in the coming years. The congresswoman mentioned the Honvéd Health Bank, which, in her name, is just not a member of the Ministry of Defence, but the government had an initiative; unfortunately, if I recall correctly, the Socialist Party did not vote in favour of the proposal before the House aimed at preventing this type of abuse. I think I agree with the Congresswoman when she said that we are going to Warsaw, not ashamed, to the Warsaw Summit in July this year, to the NATO summit in Warsaw. But we didn't have to be ashamed, and we didn't have to be ashamed of this performance, no matter where we went in the world, or any of the NATO allies came to visit Hungary. Each time, everyone said that Hungary is performing beyond its power, performing excellently in missions, European Union, UN or NATO, or other allied coalition missions. The Hungarian soldiers perform excellently everywhere beyond their strength. Compared to the size of Hungary, the size of the Hungarian Defence Forces, the level of ambition we have held for many years has gained recognition for all the allies, so not only should we go to Warsaw ashamed of this performance, but we have never had to be ashamed of it; and we thank the Hungarian soldiers, because it is their performance and their credit. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-05-12-30	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Statement by Mr László Földi, KDNP Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-05-12-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, We have already said a great deal about the draft law before us, and my fellow members of the Government have mentioned that everyone can make one move forward, this will be a budget for home creation and tax reduction in 17th grade. We have heard from our fellow Members that this budget is a sham, it is about starving the countryside, it is ruining health care, it is ruining public education; so I would like to disprove this deception and deception in all areas in some way. We say that a career model has been launched, for example, in law enforcement or in education. And it's not a hoax that my wife, who works as a junior educator at an elementary school, brings home a hundred thousand forints more salary than she had before, it's not a hoax, it's a fact, and it's not a hoax. And that, as part of the career model, teachers will continue to develop a 5% wage development in the following year, just as the previous one was not a sham or a sham, neither will it be. I heard this morning's news as I came up to Pestre that the agreements adopted in the round table of public education were fully respected by the government, and among other things, the teachers who are about to retire are educators II. is classified as about 16-17 thousand teachers - as of 1 January they will automatically receive the teacher II. classification, which means thousands of forints of wage increases for these teachers and teachers. Children's poverty and children's food support are regularly mentioned in the field of education. I remember very well when I was a school principal what kind of subsidies we received - quote - to feed the children. For families with three or more children alone, it was that they paid a 50% fee, and everyone had to pay the rest. Now we find that most of the children now eat free in schools, not to mention kindergarten and nursery. And if I take it as a basis for how much the textbook, the textbook problem, has been scolded before, because the textbook is expensive, now the fifth grade will receive the textbook for free by 2017. To calculate this, for families with two or three children, this may amount to 30 or 50 thousand forints, as appropriate. They said it was a hoax for health promotion. In recent years, there have been tens of billions, I think, of hundreds of billions of forints of development in health care, and, as we have heard, wage development has also started, and the next year's budget also has certain wage developments in the field of health. It was mentioned that fewer jobs were created in the area of job creation, said opponents, and that only the public work programme was important. That's not how I see it on the spot, either. So what I see - although our region is not a large industrial center - in our region, small and medium-sized enterprises, if in their power, are able to create new jobs, was the construction of a sewing shop in Cegléd that created 42 new jobs. I think I should say a few words here about Pest County; because, as you know before my fellow Members, Pest County still belongs to the central region, we hope that from 2018 onwards it will not. However, in the current EU budget, Pest County has very little EU funding. Because of this, 12 individual elected representatives of Pest County have turned to the government for help, and the 2017 budget already includes a certain amount of money separately for the development of Pest County. Not as much as we hoped, but this is also worth a lot, especially in the more backward parts of Pest county, such as the district of Nagykáta, the district of Cegléd, the district of Nagykőrös and their surroundings. As a very important KDNP representative, the issue of home creation is extremely important. I also experience in Cegléden and Cegléden, where more and more people are interested. I, my colleagues and the banks are also visited by many people in this matter, how they can use the CSOK, how they can get their own home, their own apartment. It's not a hoax, it's not a hoax. People want it, and they love it very much. [[10.50]] It's not deceiving or deceiving that the tax relief of two children is decreasing, the tax relief of children. I have a lot of friends who have 3 children, such as 3 children, and they don't pay her because they get the child benefit, and that's what they see in their income. And when we talk about hoaxing and deceiving the population, these facts must be taken into account in order to ensure that this is a real situation, a real budget, and I very much hope that it will probably be with certain amendments, but the budget will be adopted by the House, and indeed, in the next budget year, everyone can move forward one step further, and that is why the KDNP parliamentary faction supports next year's budget. With all due respect, my fellow Members, you will also support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-12-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Farkas, Mr Jobbik Group, will now take the floor. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-05-12-33	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I listened to István Hollik's KDNP speech about young people with interest, as I would like to comment on this topic myself, but I was under the impression that we were talking about two different worlds. His propagandaist speech and speech that cannot face problems might have been right at an IKZ or a Fidelitas meeting, even the young people would have nodded, but all the other young people, I think, laugh at this kind of one-sided presentation of the present situation. István Hollik managed to talk about young people for 20 minutes without saying the problem of emigration. So this issue, which affects hundreds of thousands of young people in Hungary today, is a matter that hundreds of thousands of young people are forced to go abroad, he simply did not say. So he managed to talk for 20 minutes and even allowed himself statements that 2017 was the budget of young people. Well, it's more of a budget for giving up emigration of young people, which we can see as a draft. Why am I talking about emigration? All surveys and statistics show that year after year the number of people who are forced either temporarily or for a longer period of time but abroad is increasing. I think this trend is scary. There is much to talk about, we have mentioned it many times through the sustainability of the pension system, the extent to which the situation of the Hungarian intellectuals would be compromised by migration abroad, and the consequences of this phenomenon could still be described through demographic problems. In contrast, you are unable to face this problem. Two years ago, however, when you came home to the Foundation, the. Come home, a young foundation was created, there was a kind of hope that you could see the severity of this problem, and you are willing to do so. What did you testify to by calling such a foundation, such an organization, to life? On the one hand, he testified that it was not certain that young people would go abroad for adventure, because if they went out of an adventure, there would not be a need for such an institution that would help them to come home, because if they went out of an adventure, they would sooner or later get bored of it or live out it, and then they would come home from themselves. But the fact that you set up this foundation shows that you don't claim that these young people are going out of their mind. They often say that it is good for a government to be able to call young people home. By doing so, they are issuing a certificate of their own activities, demonstrating that your government is not like this, that your government is not good, that you are unable to call the young people home, and that is also shown by the fact that you have created this foundation, that your governance, the measures you are taking alone, are not enough to bring the young people home. And they also realized that they needed help getting home, there are thousands, tens of thousands of young people who would come home, if they could help them find work, find a place to live, and other factors, even administrative things, that would make it difficult for them to return home. So the creation of this foundation was a kind of a ray of hope that something was going on after all. You have said that it will be launched on an experimental basis, but this foundation has been operating for two years, as you have said, on an experimental basis, and that it is not planned to be developed next year, it is well shown by budget support for this entire initiative. National Public Employment Nonprofit Ltd. is the maintainer of this foundation, for which no less and no more than 272 million forints are intended last year and this year. This is what you have been doing for this project from the beginning, and you have said that I would like to take home a hundred young people with that kind of money experimentally. Now, we have also suggested that there is no time to experiment here, no time to wait for years, because the situation is so serious, we must help these young people so urgently that they should not only extend the program to London, but also to the whole Western European emigration or the young people living there, and we should not devote 100 million forints to it, but even billions. On the other hand, you will spend 272 million forints on the entire National Employment Nonprofit Ltd. next year, so that this is the whole Nonprofit Kft. He manages 10 projects in total, that's all he controls, and only one of them is "Come home, young" program. So they won't change the amount of HUF 100 million a year planned two years ago that they're trying to help young people. We think the house is on fire, we have a very big problem here, and we really need you to finally take the effective steps that can really help bring young people who have migrated home, and that can help the young people who are thinking of emigration to stay at home. To this end, we have tabled a serious amending budget proposal for HUF 5 billion, which is actually planning a sizeable amount of money to achieve this important goal. I think that even this amount is not enough to deal with the problem to the extent it really is, but perhaps it is a compromise solution acceptable to you, which would be a message to young people living outside, that it is important that we want to bring them home, that we want to help them, and that the size of the budget you have planned would be far enough, that you are spending much more on achieving less important goals. I therefore hope that you will be open to addressing this issue and to a positive move in this direction. István Hollik said that 2017 is a budget for young people. Let's see what the young people's budget results from, let's say, a college scholarship. Why are we asking this question? We're bringing it up because 10 years ago, not less than 10 years ago, there hasn't been a change in student norm for study and social scholarships, and it hasn't been raised in 10 years. In many cases, you live by increasing pensions to the extent of inflation, many other things by the rate of inflation each year. In this case, 10 years ago, the student normative has not changed one forint, thus the social and academic scholarship of students in higher education. The problem is not only said by Jobbik, it is not a party political demand, but also HÖOK, the interest protection organisation of higher education students has long put it on the flag, and it has also developed a concrete proposal, which would be a budget contribution of HUF 9 billion, which would be the amount of money that would require an increase in student normative within higher education, so that we can make it possible to support young people to a greater extent, just because we know very well that the financial situation is very important for those who are able to study in higher education, who would dare to get a diploma, and we can also see that the decline in the number of students entering higher education in the past few years has become a financial problem, and financial problems have prevented the application, because many of them do not want to take on student loans recommended by you, do not want to indebt themselves, while the family's financial situation does not allow these young people to participate in many cases of paying and self-cost training. [[11.00]] I therefore urge you to present the young people's budget in this area and to adopt the amendment that aims to address the issue of raising scholarships. Another issue relating to higher education is the situation of colleges. We know very well that there are over-subscriptions in colleges at national level. Also, not only do we say it, but Fecos, the National Association of Higher Education Colleges and HÖOK have carried out several surveys on this, which focuses on two problems. One problem is the small number of dormitory seats, as I mentioned, and the other is the issue of quality. The survey found that housing is a significant financial burden in the lives of all students, while access to a dorm room is available at a price. This is not only generally true, but it is noticeable that there has been an explosive price increase in the rental market in Budapest in the last year, mainly in other county seats, in larger cities, especially in university cities. This makes the situation even worse, so it would be very important to provide a place for young people, all those who so require. Not only because the college is an excellent community space, which offers a lot of opportunities - I have lived in a college for nine years, I have experienced this personally - but it also provides financial relief and help for young people. In this respect, it would also be important to build new colleges or increase the capacity of existing colleges. The other issue for colleges is the quality issue. Unifying and modernising college services is essential for the creation of quality higher education. Here's some data I'd like to mention quickly. In more than half of the colleges, there has been neither maintenance nor development in the last five years. There is therefore important work to be done in the area of colleges. I would like to ask my fellow Member, István Hollik, and my fellow members of the Government, that, if they really call the draft for next year's youth budget, they should also invest in them. My fellow Member, István Hollik, spoke about the PhD scholarship, which is a positive one. Indeed, the scholarship increase of future doctoral students - in the first step 140 thousand forints and then 180 thousand forints - is an important and forward-looking initiative. However, there is also a need to do something about the situation caused by the government's initiative, with the unfair situation, as this increase does not apply to current PhD students. It will be introduced in an ascending system, which will result in a young person starting his doctoral studies next year as early as the first semester receiving 140 thousand forints as a scholarship, and from the second year 180 thousand forints, while the other doctoral student who is a third year in next year will have to settle for 100 thousand forints. I think that the difference of up to HUF 80,000 in monthly scholarship is very serious injustice in the system, so it would also be important to increase the scholarship of those who are currently taking part in doctoral school, and not just introduce this system in an up-and-coming system. My fellow Member, István Hollik, spoke for a long time about the progress made in the budget in relation to harmful passions. I listened carefully to my fellow Member, István Hollik. I guess I didn't notice something then, because I would have waited for my fellow Member to tell me what kind of positive steps had been taken to prevent drug use. You didn't say anything about that. However, when it comes to harmful addictions, it is difficult to mention a more harmful passion than drug use, drug use, especially today, when the market for designer drugs is booming. Technically, it is possible to order designer drugs on the Internet as if a pizza is ordered by a young person, so that the authorities and the various laws cannot follow the system of various quality materials compiled from these compounds. It is therefore important that, at the time of the flowering of designer drugs, when one in five young people have tried drugs and drugs, the budget also has forward-looking proposals in this area. What are we looking at? We see that in 2004 - looking back a little bit - there was still HUF 1.8 billion in expenditure under the heading "Prevention of drug consumption; in 2010 there was less than HUF 1 billion. And what do we see today? In 2014 and this year's budget, HUF 351 million is intended for this purpose. So while my fellow Member, István Hollik, spoke about the proposals on harmful addictions, we should see that in 2004 HUF 1.8 billion was spent on prevention of drug use, and now 351 million; this is virtually an impact on the 2004 amount. I think that there has been a very serious step backwards, which is scary for the young generation, because we know very well that prevention would be one of the most important in this area. I would like to mention one last area. If you consider youth to be so important, I would advise the governing party to finally establish budgetary support for the National Youth Council, which represents young people as an umbrella organisation of young organisations. Create the possibility of finding resources to finance this organisation, regardless of governments, so that it can carry out its task of representing young people, representing their interests, bringing together local, regional or national youth organisations in the country. The operation of this organisation is very important, and we are also pleased that a few years ago, the last of the European Union's states formed this council. I am asking you to create its independence and its financing in order to fulfil its purpose. We have also made an amendment to this. I trust you will support this. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] To conclude, I have to say that until the government party actually talks about problems, especially the problem of emigration, they do not face this serious situation, the government representatives, and even my fellow Member, István Hollik, who spoke about the young people, will be like the company manager who tells his colleagues about very nice offers and development plans at the meeting, but does not realize that his colleagues have resigned or resigned long ago and have virtually no one to run the company. This is the case at the moment, Hungary is in a situation where young people leave because the situation of the country is so low and they consider the developments, the progress that we have heard here from my fellow Members in KDNP to be so propaganda. I'm asking you to come to your senses and deal with young people to a much greater extent. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-12-34	Welcome, fellow Members. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Csizi.
u2016-05-12-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think I am not exaggerating when I say that in a parliamentary season discussing the budget law, discussing the budget guidelines and figures is one of the most important issues, if not the most important. We devote not only a little time to this, because we are not only talking about numbers, but there are a lot of messages behind the numbers. The messages that need to be seen, seen through, discussed in the debate that allow politicians, representatives, press staff and the population of the country to see the direction in which the country is moving, and in the short one or two years to come, what progress, what development or what difficulties may be expected. It is important to note that, in addition to the need to set a direction, the budget has a very important task of ensuring that it can be respected. We are constantly hearing opposition siren sounds - there is no problem with that, as long as the world is around, it will always be so that the opposition can say more than what the government puts on the table - and behind these siren sounds there is, of course, a real goal that it does not want. Who doesn't want to cut taxes, who doesn't want to pay more wages to the public sector? And let's be honest with each other, we also know that, by the way, there are opportunities for a budget to make such commitments in the field of numbers and words. But the question is not what commitments we make, but what we respect. [[11.10]] I remember when 100-day programs were able to make very sound promises in practice, and after one or two years or three, the country practically went bankrupt, the municipalities went bankrupt, and in many cases households too, unfortunately, because of indebtedness. We are debating a lot about the Hungarian budget and the economic situation, but I think we can agree that in recent years, in the last five years, the budget that you have put on the table here in the form of a proposal has been practically sustainable. Prime Minister, too, has often stressed that gestures can be made to the public by strengthening and improving the standard of living if there is a tangible economic background and an economic basis. So one of the great advantages of the current budget that we are discussing and what we are looking at is that it is predictable and sustainable, and I think that the idea that the government represents is joyful for all of us, that we should bring a budget to the Parliament and thus have it accepted by the citizens of Hungary, in which budget the revenue side is the same as the expenditure side. Let us stretch out on that particular economic blanket as long as we have the opportunity, we must not indebt the country. When we look at the budget and look for the messages in it, everyone's looking at someone else. We individual representatives, who have received our mandate directly from the people, look for the points with which the settlement or the settlements or the county, as we have heard from the representative of Earth, what we represent and those who live there. In my name, I am pleased, first of all, that in the last five years, I have always found numbers, lines where the city is named, where the problems that the Hungarian government and the Hungarian Parliament are helping Pécs and Pécs to solve are named. Let us recall that there were times when local leaders, such as socialist leaders in the city of Pécs during socialist governments, were concerned about the draft budget, and I almost say that they opened it with a trembling stomach, because unfortunately they saw the additional burden on local governments while, in the meantime, the government does not provide support for additional burdens or additional tasks, but a borrowing opportunity. This led to many other things besides the fact that the municipalities were practically bankrupt. And what we see today is that this debt has been taken over by the government, and, as I said, they help out in a number of local cases if I just take a Pécs example, in addition to the operation of the Zsolnay Cultural Quarter, besides the annual plus operating aid, we can also, say, break down the last memento of socialism in the city, thanks to the government at the same time. Returning to national directives, the debate on budgetary principles has now been taking place slowly or more than 24 hours. We've heard a lot about opposition and government sides, and everyone has a different name for the 2017 directions, everyone sees different. I would say that this budget is a budget for ensuring security. On the one hand, if we are talking about security, of course - because we represent citizens - our most important task is to ensure the security of life and the economic benefits that the government achieves, we must be able to get to citizens as quickly as possible. I have already talked about keeping this not in the field of words, but also in the field of action, so when we introduce a career model, it is important that it can be maintained for many years or decades. But there is another security, the security of the country against external attacks, the physical protection of the country, which has been mentioned in recent years when the budget is being negotiated. In fact, I remember when opposition representatives - I'm sorry to say this, but they were messing around with it, being ironic and, in many cases, sarcastic, mocking, for example, that the military or the Counter-Terrorism Centre's annual budget had been cut, withdrawn, or, in the case of TEK, if we remembered the rightful amendments three to four years ago, it would have been abolished 100 percent, simply to serve life security. By the way, the objectives are, of course, eligible, but, fellow Members, these well-sounding promises are also worth something if there is physical security in Hungary. The last year has shown that unfortunately the next year's budget must pay particular attention to protecting Hungary and protecting Hungarians. After all, if we look at what's going on in the world, what's going on in Europe, we see there's an asymmetrical war, which, by simplifying, means there's no way to know who's attacking, when, where, and how. When we look at the attack in Brussels, and when we read the news about the attack in Brussels, we do not think, by any chance, that this could not happen, let us say, in Hungary. After all, the attack in Brussels was not directed against Brussels, against the city, not against Belgium, against the country, but against the European Union, which we are members of, so it is safe to say that somewhere during the terrorist attacks in Brussels we were also attacked, and let us not forget that the Islamic State has already made concrete references to Hungary. Security cannot therefore be a matter of negotiation, and I am happy to see it now, as I look at the amendments, that we no longer have proposals that we have become accustomed to three or four years ago, and which I have already mentioned, which are essentially aimed at supporting other objectives in the interests of security and protection of the country. The current budget ahead of us also envisages a HUF 100 billion development to protect the country. This includes, of course, the physical protection of the southern border, but beyond that, we want to strengthen the bodies, whether technically or infrastructurally, who are fighting terrorism and who, let's say, can provide intelligence resources to protect the country. Prime Minister has already said that we need to buy technology, provide training and education to ensure that Hungary and the protection of Hungarians are consistent with the quality and protection of intelligence in Western European countries. In order to do this, there will be an increase in the number of staff at the Counter-Terrorism Center. In practice, last year's budget of HUF 12 billion will rise to nearly HUF 20 billion in order to improve, modernise and create new deployable teams. An increase of 372 people is required, the additional resource of which is already included in the proposal before us in the amount of HUF 5 billion. However, it is important to note that there will also be improvements in the area of civil national security, as in the case of the Constitutional Protection Office, which we are talking about little, but it is very important that, with the tool system of gathering information, Hungary's interests will be enforced and the sovereignty of the country protected, so in the case of the Constitutional Protection Office, the government can now provide HUF 7 billion for the long-awaited central real estate development through the budget. Of course, both the TEK, the Constitutional Protection Office and the National Security Services are also budgeted for wage development, which ensures that by 2019 employees of defence and law enforcement bodies earn 5 percent more per year in the framework of the career model. Ladies and Gentlemen, To further strengthen protection, last week the Parliament decided to set up the so-called TIBEK, which strengthens the processing of the data obtained, and to this end we were able to account for HUF 1.3 billion in the current budget, so that last week's verbal and legal promise could be made as soon as possible in reality. [[11.20]] All in all, it must be said that although we feel that migration has subsided, although we believe that the protection of the country is guaranteed, but let us not forget that only one and a half million migrants have entered Europe in the last year, Europe does not even know who they are, where they are, what they are and what they are doing, and in line with migration, virtually Europe and the country's terrorist threats have increased. So in order to do this, it is safe to say that not only by the power of the laws, not only by the power of words, but now, by the force of action, we can see that the government and the Parliament protect the Hungarians and defend the country. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-05-12-36	It is now time for the group leader of the LMP, Mr András Schiffer.
u2016-05-12-37	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Here in my introduction, I am forced to respond to Congressman Csizi at some point. So, for the sake of historical loyalty, let's make something right. He did have an opposition to the government, not so long ago, which consistently submitted so-called one-legged amendments by promising people all kinds of nice and good things, simultaneously reducing taxes and multiplying welfare expenses, and even unbelievable extra resources for various settlements without marking their sources. There was an opposition here, in this Parliament, constantly entertaining from budgetary debate to budgetary debate by putting in sacks of amendments whose cover was obscured. This opposition party was called the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association between 2002 and 2010. [[Péter Chizi laughs.]] You may find this funny, Mr Csizi, but precisely from this attitude of opposition, what has been done directly on the government has been subject to continuous improvisation and momentary power interests in their economic policies. Since the beginning of the parliamentary role of the May Other Politics, he has put an alternative budget on the table every year since 2010, so that voters can see precisely that if and if we are entrusted with the governance of the country, then about what policy can be expected, if appropriate, we can be accounted for, and this year we will present only amendments to this budget, the source of which we will show precisely. That's the difference between us. Let me just say that when you're shooting at me to be stylish, the opposition here has been constantly messing with the scrapping of defense and security expenses over the last few years, I think you've just used that phrase, and perhaps you've named poor TEK, maybe you've just named the right-handers, you've practically wanted to plow it, then you don't count on one little thing. It is not my place to speak on behalf of Jobbik or the Socialists, but again it is only the fact that loyalty requires me to make it clear that in recent years there has not been a opposition group that has wanted TEK's budget to be reduced in recent years so that it has not, by the way, had any idea in which other ways it would resolve the safety of Hungarian people. In Hungarian, it is true that all opposition groups, socialists and Jobbik, as well as LMP, have received proposals in recent years to radically reduce the TEK budget, but on the other hand, I remember precisely that last autumn, in the middle of the migration crisis, both LMP and the Socialists have tabled a budget change proposal to resolve, on the other hand, the wages of police personnel and the development of police capacity. These opposition proposals have been swept off the table, not only swept off the table, but, as a Christmas gift, they have even demanded overtime money from police officers on the border. It's the truth. It's the truth! Congressman Csizi talks - although this text could be heard by the Hungarian people in the 1970s and 1980s - so that we can only stretch out until our blanket reaches; I remember those rare parliamentary broadcasts from my childhood when Péter Csizi said the same sentences, let us say, János Kádár. [[Defiance in the ranks of Fidesz.]] The thing is, there would be a lot of money in this country, Congressman Chizi, if it hadn't been stolen. Of course, the two-legged amendment proposals that we are submitting mark the direct source of how to improve the salaries of civil servants, civil servants, police personnel, but the truth is, if we do not stick to the text of the budget law, it is where you are spilling them out to buddies, beneficiary families, or spilling them into offshore tomatoes. Professor Lánczi told me a great truth a few months ago that what the opposition calls corruption is the essence of the government of Fidesz. Here it is important to point out that when it comes to corruption, it is not just a matter of doing something immoral, even though it is true. It is not just economic interest groups taking the government captive, although this is true, and we are even seeing global warning signs. The point is that when you, whether Peter Csizi or members of the government, reject the salary claims of teachers or nurses, you will forget that this would actually be covered if the prestige investments ordered by overpriced payments to buddies were not cut off. Today, the situation in Hungary is that public procurement is basically at a 25 percent corruption premium according to estimates from various research institutes. It is also said that 90 percent of public procurement is in some way contaminated. It is also said, for example, that the Corruption Research Centre is 600, nearly 1000 billion forints a year, what we lose with discharges and migrations into private pockets. The RAND Institute estimates that corruption consumes 11 percent of GDP in Hungary, which is approximately HUF 3300 billion. Here we go. So it would be good to speak honestly, speak straight to people, and not giggling in this case, fellow Member Iron. [[Dr. Vas Imre: I think so too! It's worth talking honestly.]] But to tell them that you're stealing from nurses, stealing from doctors, stealing from teachers when you're putting unauthorized money into your pockets of your buddies, the Matolcsy clan, the Ripper clan and others. That's what I'm talking about. Congressman Iron, I don't know what you're yelling when your prime minister wasn't able to do that on Monday. [[Laszlo Szászfalvi: Don't get personal, you!]] In order to indicate, for example, the Hungarian National Bank, which is responsible for monetary policy, on the basis of which statutory mandate it transfers nearly HUF 270 billion to foundations. There is no such authority, and Prime Minister Orbán was not able to answer that question either. [[Dr. Vas Imre: Yes!]] The problem is that, on the one hand, welfare expenditure is not covered, wages are not covered in the public sector because these funds are simply going to run away and disappear on corruption channels. However, there is another indirect cost of corruption, namely that in the captured state, where economic interests from a centre determine the changes in legislation, the whole will simply eliminate the predictable entrepreneurial environment. In a country where the fundamental economic rules can be changed on the basis of momentary power interests, there is no investment in such a country, whether in civil law or in financial law. And if you look at the figures about the investments that have been made clean from EU developments and the investments of multinational companies, you will see the number - and this gives little reason to giggling - that investments in Hungary at the level of Hungarian-owned enterprises have virtually stopped. Investments in Hungary do not cover depreciation, if you look only at Hungarian-owned small and medium-sized enterprises. [[11.30]] This means that Hungary's dependence and economic vulnerability have increased over the past six years, the assembly companies that generate the growth in part, the profits generated here in a very large proportion, if not entirely allocated from Hungary, and the investments at the level of Hungarian companies are panga. If there is no predictability, if economic policy is captured solely by individual interests and narrow group interests, then there is no investment, and this leads to a long-term economic inability to develop. That is why, three years ago, we put forward a package of predictable laws, so that there is a clear and stable legal environment where anyone who wants to invest, invest and undertake in Hungary today can do so in a predictable manner. The other important and not closely linked to the budget, which we have also submitted for predictability and in the spirit of the fight against corruption, is the anti-offshore legislative package, which aims to end the process that has now led this country to be among the 20 largest victims of offshoreisation. Two and a half times the Hungarian government debt was pumped from this country to various offshore tomatoes in 25 years. At the same time, we are presenting amendments to the 2017 budget, and already in the 2017 budget, there is a need to take decisive steps that will help to reduce corruption pressure on Hungarian policy, on Hungarian economic policy, and to reduce the amount of money that flows into unauthorized private pockets. One of the two directions is direct anti-corruption measures, but the other direction, which indirectly serves the purpose of ensuring equal access to the law for all in Hungary. In order to strengthen anti-corruption action, we will continue this year to repeat the proposals that we have already made in recent years. One element of this is the need to make the State Audit Office a centre for the fight against corruption, with an appropriate budget expansion of 1 billion. This does not only mean that if and if Parliament were to accept the LMP's live claim since February 14 which we have just stated in connection with the splintering of the Simon case that we are ordering a regular assetisation investigation of politicians; in this case, the Court of Auditors should also have a function. But it is not just that, but it would be in the interests of all of us to have a body in the state life, and this could be the Court of Auditors, which continuously analyses and explores corruption risks. We have gone so far in our proposals that a risk analysis must be carried out in advance when an EU development proposal is launched. To do so, however, we need to provide the right professional and financial background. The other institution, which would be greatly needed in anti-corruption action and whose capacities should therefore be expanded by at least HUF 1 billion, is the prosecution. I have to stop for a moment because of the events of the last few weeks. After all, it is practically a quarter of a century of problems, so since the change of regime, the prosecutor's office is the only body whose leaders, if they commit illegal acts, can actually investigate themselves. That is why, within a closed deadline, we are going to present to the House a proposal, the concept of which, by the way, has been published years ago, that, if senior prosecutors commit lawlessness or any of the economic organizations affected by their close relatives commit lawlessness, a investigative judicial institution should be set up within the bosom of the judicial system to investigate their possible lawlessness by entities belonging to the interests of senior prosecutors or their close relatives. Therefore, we would provide additional capacity for the court, but in the case of the prosecutor's office we have already demanded in the new prosecutor's law that the prosecutor's office should also fulfil the task of ensuring that Hungary is not a country without consequences within its public interest protection functions. In English, if fact-finding journalism reveals various corruption-suspecting cases, then the prosecutor's office should follow up on the content of these cases on its own initiative. In Hungary, public confidence is greatly destroyed by the fact that in the last 25 years, a number of not just rumors about current power, numerous fact-finding reports have come to light, and the number of these cases has never been investigated. A further HUF 1 billion serves to expand the capacity of the courts, partly because the courts have a very important control role, for example towards the prosecution, as proposed by LMP. But also because, for example, the courts exercise control over the public administration, and at present even for the necessary IT developments in the courts, which is necessary for the completion of court proceedings and legal proceedings within a reasonable period of time, there is no necessary capacity. In the other direction, however, we must ensure that people have equal access to justice, regardless of the situation and residence. There is a clear public life if, by the way, people are really given the opportunity to pursue the truth equally, regardless of political view, world view, residence, and, above all, property situation, and to pursue their own legitimate interests. This is why we have already initiated, after 2010, that, if there is a complaint about crimes against public trust, those persons, organisations who are filing allegations of corruption may exercise the right of appeal. In fact, where appropriate, the institution of supplementary private property should also fit people in cases of suspicion of corruption. This would obviously also impose an additional burden on the prosecutor's organisation and the courts. But it is at least as important that criminal policy, justice, is not merely a search for sinners. It's just as important to protect the victims. In a country where people feel safe, and in a country where there is effective victim protection, people will be courageous and courageous, for example, against corruption cases. In previous budgets, we have already raised our voice in order to protect victims, and we have emphasised in particular that precisely crimes against gender morality require the development of victim protection capacities, not only in the police, but also within the health institutions or in family support services. There have been no effective steps in this direction. Five hundred million forints is what we would like to allocate as an additional source in the budget 17 for the protection of victims, because this is the only way to imagine, for example, that sexual abuse, the visibility of acts against sexual morality, will decrease, and not least, that the victims can actually process their traumas and adapt effectively to society. But in victim protection, of course, we also need to talk about the protection of whistleblowers. If, for example, people turn to justice and investigative bodies in the context of different public interest harms or abuses of office, they should be safe to ensure that their interests can be effectively protected by public bodies against unlawful threats. And another HUF 500 million is what we would like to use to improve legal assistance. Recently, the judicial portfolio came up with a bill that would provide so-called legal places in the place of district courts or certain district courts. We believe that it is not primarily the problem of people, even in small settlements, that lawsuits need to go to a district centre. [[11.40]] What is a real burden for people in Hungary today is that they cannot effectively access the administration necessary for law, legal knowledge, legal procedures. For this reason, we also initiated a five-party consultation on the establishment of legislative sites, primarily by ordering budget extra resources to provide effective legal assistance, either at government offices or at courts' newly established offices, to guide ordinary people even in small settlements, which, moreover, will ensure that the people who lack it can enforce their legitimate interests and legitimate needs, in Hungarian: equal access to justice and justice can be given to everyone regardless of their place of residence, regardless of their financial situation. So to sum up, LMP's proposals for anti-corruption, clean public life, are two directions for this budget of 17 too. On the one hand, we want to strengthen the bodies assigned to this in order to take direct anti-corruption action, including strengthening the budgetary position of the courts, on the other hand, helping victim protection and legal assistance in order to ensure equal access to justice and justice in this country. To sum up, however, the great lesson in recent years, in the budgetary debates over the last few years, is that the largest item that can be applied on the source side not only to the fight against corruption but also to the development of wages, is in fact the one that does not appear in the budget, the huge billion-dollar item that is simply stolen, which power spends on luxuriousness, which power spends on the small-taffirunging of certain families. It must also be made clear, and it must also be said that, in the case of different professions, there is no money for wage development because this money is simply stolen in a naughty way. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ranks of Jobbik and the independent.]]
u2016-05-12-38	I now give the floor to János Fuzik, advocate of Slovak nationality.
u2016-05-12-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Váženy pan predseda! Vážené Národné zhromaždenie! Pozdravujem Vás v mene Výboru pre národnosti v Birdsku, názory ktorého mienim tlmocit vo vseobecnej diskusii návrhu zákona o ústrednom štátnom rozpocte na rok 2017. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I welcome you on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, whose opinion I would like to convey in the general debate on the 2017 central budget proposal. This is the third time that I and my fellow ethnic advocates have been able to take part in such a debate, obviously always in a slightly different situation. Two years ago, when we discussed the bill on the 2015 budget, we actually said our complaints over a government referral that contained in unchanged form the nationality framework figures that had remained unchanged for five to 10 years now and in some areas for a longer time. Of course, with the reception and support of the government and Parliament, we have already engaged in advanced negotiations that have foreseen the long-awaited movement. So here in the parliamentary debate, we argued in particular for the justification for a significant increase in minority support. Last year, we joined the debate on this year's draft budget, as I mentioned then, in a bit of a state of grace. The bill submitted by the government already included the aid needs that have been developed in consultation with the national national minority self-governments for several months of thorough preparatory work, with a view to the thoughtful, proportionate and gradual development of each area. As a result, we have been able to move on to the path that the national minority law gives us by establishing and developing our cultural autonomy. The duplication of the budget of HUF 4 billion for the implementation of various cultural and public education programmes over two years was indeed a rare turn of events, especially in the life of Hungarian nationalities. So we could move on, but Hungary has also moved on. Through the spectacular embrace of its nationality citizens, we can safely claim that it has gained recognition of their mother countries, diplomatic and political bodies, and otherwise other international organisations. Just yesterday, our committee spoke here, in Parliament's building, with Mrs Astrid Thors, the OSCE High Commissioner for National Minorities, who also acknowledged these budgetary support results. Now here we are, T/10377. above the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2017, conducting a general debate; we, ethnic advocates, not really filled with last year's already mentioned state of grace, rather with feelings two years earlier. Next year's draft budget bill provides for national minority subsidies, support for national authorities and the media, as well as for the institutions they maintain, investment, renovations and tender sub-parts, with only HUF 40 million in total. In fact, this corresponds to a correction of 0.5 per cent. My fellow speakers in the general debate have already discussed in detail the work and needs in the field of ethnic public life, culture and public education. From the much mentioned minority budget support package, I would like to highlight only one element: the bill XX. The heading "Support of nationalities institutions for investment, renovation and tendering expenditure' under Chapter 60 of Chapter III of the Treaty. This was not previously included in the budget laws, we managed to bring it to life in 2015 for HUF 440 million. This year's budget will give us twice as much, and this will be included in next year's draft. It's no small thing, and we know it, and we appreciate it. However, neither is the task nor the work behind the rational use of this aid. For example, did you know, fellow Members, that today in Hungary, national authorities, NGOs and non-profit companies maintain more than 100 public education and cultural institutions? Almost half of these are kindergartens and schools, the number of which will increase by at least a dozen from September. With their reservation and operation, our ethnic authorities have taken no small burden off the shoulders of former municipal or state maintainers, not to mention the renovation of buildings, public procurement and the implementation of EU tenders. Is this purely ethnic expenditure and budget support? But let's talk about concrete examples and actions. This year, with the support of the budget chapter-holder, the Ministry of Human Resources and its State Secretary for Church, Nationality and Civil Relations, the partial renovation of the Romanian and Szirák Roma schools in Battonya, the placement of the Serbian kindergarten in Budapest, the reconstruction of the Croatian school in Pécs will be completed, the German youth camp in Budapest will be renewed, the Bulgarian, Greek and Slovenian cultural center will be completed, and the Slovak Culture House in Pécsaba will be partially renovated. [[11.50]] The Germans and Slovaks in the field are given community space. The Slovaks in Deer can set up a village house, and I can continue the line with 14 other projects. In March this year, only the national minority authorities identified 117 different items in the assessment of shorter and longer term development needs; not for operation or comfort, but for investment and development, value saving and value creation, work. I trust that, following further negotiations with well-intentioned government partners, we will have the opportunity to do so, for all of us, because, as our basic law states, we live together. .akujem za posornosť. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-12-40	I now give the floor to Congressman Dénes Pigeon.
u2016-05-12-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Today's speech is about the steps taken so far to whiten the economy and the continuation of it in the next year's budget. Dear Parliament, I have to start with the conclusion that the Hungarian economy has been whitening on a record level since 2010. According to international analyses, the size of the hidden economy decreased by more than 1.5 percent of GDP in Hungary between 2010 and 2015. Today, the scale of the black economy no longer shows a significant difference in comparison with Western European countries, and I believe that these findings certainly represent serious progress. Since 2015 alone, HUF 550 billion more tax revenue has appeared in the state register, thanks to government measures against the black economy. The introduction of the online cash register and the electronic road traffic control system, the EKAER, contributed greatly to these results. Unpaid VAT liability has become easier to uncover and fictitious freight transport has become proven. The government has also taken further measures in recent years, firstly reducing the level of personal income tax, which has facilitated the declaration of actual income and the payment of the tax. As regards corporate tax, from 2012, detailed rules for the detection of loss margins and the related uses have been tightened, and from 2015 the rules for the adjustment of transfer prices have been tightened, which have greatly increased the taxation of foreign companies in Hungary. From 2013 onwards, businesses will be able to choose both the specific tax on newly introduced small-scale companies and the so-called small-scale tax, which will help to whiten the economy by creating a favourable tax environment. In the case of local taxes, imposing the underlying liability of the owner is the important change that should be mentioned, in the event that the person entitled to the right of property and the person subject to the tax does not have any assets to pay the tax. This is a complicated conclusion, but the negative driving force of successful Hungarian thinking on this issue was that many people tried to circumvent the payment of the construction tax and the land tax with the help of unclaimed persons. The government also developed a transparent ownership structure in the accounting report. As of 15 March 2014, the provision requiring a detailed presentation of the ownership structure in the supplementary annex shall apply. In addition, we have developed stricter oversight of the audit and, in this respect, legislation has taken several steps, most recently by adopting a bill for auditors. Economic whitening measures will continue with a similar momentum in 2017. The government strengthens the NAV's activity in this direction, and tax collection will be even more effective through the taxpayer rating system. We believe that the methodology and method of the NAV will also change and that monitoring of tax avoidance will become more effective. In addition to extending online cash registers, a system of online invoicing will be introduced from 2017 to further whiteten the economy, making it more effective to reduce tax fraud in the event of non-accounting of revenues. This could be the weapon with which the tax authority can act effectively against VAT fraud. In the area of corporate tax regulation, the government will continue to try to reduce the practice of corporate tax evasion in 2017, as I mentioned. In order to meet this objective and international requirements, the tax base benefits related to royalties and certain intangible assets may be used on the basis of a methodology developed by the OECD, approved by the ECOFIN Council, as from 1 July 2016. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, On the subject of corporate tax evasion, I would like to make an important point in one thought. As a result of this method of monitoring the tax avoidance of large companies, corporate tax revenue may increase from HUF 400 billion to HUF 734 billion, according to the budget calculation of the appropriation. Ladies and gentlemen, In the light of what has been said, I would also ask you to take these aspects into account when discussing the budget and to support the budget bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-12-42	I now give the floor to Mr Dezső Liberty.
u2016-05-12-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In my fellow Member Fodor's speech, he described this budget as an act, along with several other fellow Members, and we regard it as a hoax. This situation is not reinforced by the way in which the 2017 budget has come before us. One of my comments is that this date at the beginning of May, when we are dealing with this issue, makes the situation somewhat confusing, since there is not even performance from 2016 but we are planning to do it in 2017. Obviously, this could lead to a situation later, in the case of a number of stories, which could make the 2017 budget confusing. Perhaps amendments to the 2016 budget will still be tabled in the days, but in the meantime, we are planning to do so in relation to 2017. The other is the nature of the new structure of the budget. In practice, this new structure results in a very difficult comparison between the 2016 and 2017 figures. Of course, a man can solve this, but it's not an easy task, it takes some investigative work to make it quite comparable in a normal way. At the same time, this could give us the opportunity not to compare it with the same thing. In this way, this situation may become a little more confusing. I have basically grouped what I have to say around two slogans. One sounds like everyone can take a step forward. I'm sure that sounds familiar to many. The other is that Hungary is performing better. I think that if these slogans are true, this should be reflected in the budget for the 2017 budget planning. Consider some examples of how true this is. Can everyone take a step forward? Can this also be true of the worst in Hungary? I don't think so. If we look at this in proportion to GDP in 2009 - that is, in 2009, in the toughest year of the global economic crisis - in the case of the poorest and socially deprived sections of Hungary, this has consumed 17.7 percent of the budget, this is what was spent on it; in 2017, 14 percent of it is to be spent on this. We haven't made any progress since 2009, let alone compared to last year. So I think that this slogan is not true for the widest but poorest sections of society in terms of the 2017 budget. [[12.00]] In particular, it is not true if we look at the proportion of the various layers of society that they represent in society as a whole. The poorest layers are constantly growing in proportion, which means that Hungary's poorest people show a steady increase in their numbers compared to the total population, but at the same time we have seen that the amount allocated to them is constantly falling. I think that this is the direction I was talking about earlier, is not true - they probably can take one step back if not more. But we can look at the same thing, if we look at public finances, then the amount to be spent on this layer is reduced from 56.9 to 54.8 percent. But we can also look at how much the country has spent on aid over the last two years - they are obviously the worst, because they need the most, if they can't help themselves, then in some way, anyone can help them; I think this could be the task of the state. The relief system has been reorganized, the municipalities have been put in an impossible position over the past two years, despite all this, 25 billion HUF has been withdrawn from this circle in the last two years. Let's look at another very large layer, they're called pensioners - there's a lot of them. They're our parents. 0.9 per cent: this is the expected pension increase in 2017. At the same time, there are hundreds of thousands of pensioners who live below the minimum living age. Do you think they can make one move forward? Because if not, then this slogan is not true, because they represent a very significant part of society, and unfortunately this 0.9 percent is not enough to say that this very significant layer, our parents, can take a step forward in 2017. But we can look at another layer. My fellow Member Hollik has now quoted from several Members what he has said about young people, in my opinion - but with this, I believe, I am not alone - I have not heard such a superficial opinion about young people in terms of the budget; I think that is what my fellow Member Farkas said for almost a quarter of an hour. As a father and grandfather, I have young children aged 20 and 30, so I definitely think that I can judge their situation in this regard. What do I see about this important layer, and looking again at whether they can make one move forward? What I see is that this layer has stepped forward - not forward; out. Out of the country. And no one cares about them in this regard. What I see is that a significant part of this layer, hundreds of thousands of young Hungarians are already planning elsewhere. He doesn't plan to spend his life here in Hungary. In spite of the. Come home, and I can still say about other lifeless programs, I see that in 2017 there are quite a few such programs planned, unviable programs; they will not come home. And if we pay attention to the opinion of my fellow Member Hollik, then we see that practically nothing else is going to happen but to bury their heads in the sand on this issue. Young people in Hungary today do not feel well and consider the country unlivable. You can't study in this country and you can't do business. And I'm obviously not making this up. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: Yes! Of course I can. No, you're making this up.]] I mean, they're the ones who put it that way. You might want to keep an eye on the latest polls. But if, let us say, we look at this in relation to businesses, then we see that there are thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises disappearing in Hungary. What could be the reason for this? Obviously, it is not that this environment is considered very livable here in Hungary. But if we move past this issue of how everyone can take a step, we have seen where, in my view, not in advance, but in the back or out of the country, but if we look at the other, that Hungary is doing better? About what? And you're right, there's one thing you're doing better: in the 2017 budget, the state spends more on itself. Yeah. If we consider this to be a better outcome for the country, then that is true. The state wants to spend more on itself in 2017 and spend more on its own leaders. Who are those who do not, or do better, this country - let's see! I said a few thoughts about small and medium-sized enterprises. It would be very important for them to have a good time here in the country, to feel that it is worth volunteering here, planning, and imagining their lives here. There have been a number of comments on this; we have seen from these, in practice, that it is not worth undertaking, because where public procurements have been pre-played, it is always won by the same circle of friends and friends, obviously by small and medium-sized enterprises that do not want to join one of the parties, they just want to operate independently, they do not feel well and leave. The other issue is where it is, I looked for it, what is the issue, or what is the area of social movement where the country or government performs better. I found it, it really wasn't hard: these prestige investments. There's money for that. That's what we can spend on, uncounted. Quick addition: 400,000 forints. This includes moving to the Castle, because these are very important questions, but if you think about it a little bit, that if I could share this money, as long as there are tens of thousands of children starving in Hungary, are you sure we have to spend the money to move to Castle? And you're sure we have to spend this money on stadiums? At nearly 60 years of age, I consider myself a sportsman, and I am active in sports; I am outraged by the fact that these heavy hundred billion forints, which are spent on stadium construction, are said to be spent on sports. Any stadium in Hungary today: it is a sport in that 22 people once a week, if you add 5 judges, 27 people play sports for 90 minutes. And that's what hundreds of billions are spent on. Because that facility can't be used by anyone but them. On the other hand, I can say by way of a concrete example that amateurs in Budapest who want to play football are slowly unable to get a career to play sports. In my opinion, this does not show that this country is performing better. In my opinion, my time seems to have gone a little too far. [[Interjections and clarity in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] - this budget is not a step forward for the majority of Hungarian society. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-12-44	I now give the floor to Secretary Charles Czibere.
u2016-05-12-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I would like to comment briefly on three issues - again in three expanded sentences - where, I think, once again, we need to make a factual adjustment. One is the number of the worst. We have just said that it is welcome that in this House there is a compromise on the fact that we are working on the same data; data security. Discussions on poverty and exposure to poverty and risk should work on the same data. This was also stated in the previous committee discussion, a very important development of the past year and a half or two, we do not want to lose this result. If we look at the data of the KSH again, we see that in the last two years, the number of people affected by financial deprivation, income failure and work poverty has decreased from 465,000 to 293 thousand. [[Kristóf Szatmáry: That's right.]] A third. [[Kristóf Szatmáry: He doesn't mind!]] So it is very important to see this, and Eurostat has also validated this. We have to work on these data. On the basis of all poverty factors, the number of people affected has decreased by one third - they are considered to be the most vulnerable and it is important that social policy pay particular attention to their situation and their assistance. His second suggestion was to extract funds from relief. [[12.10]] Here, we can think primarily of fht, as a substitute for employment, but it is important to add the other part of this picture: year after year, the period covered by public employment increased much more significantly, and therefore the government expenditure related to public employment, which largely compensated this, and since the government's social policy is a central element in creating opportunities and creating opportunities through chance of employment, I think this is an extremely important and positive development. The third issue is the income situation of older people and pensioners. All the literature describes the rise above inflation in recent years, there has been a pension increase, so the income security component of the social security of the elderly has been clearly implemented. If we think that a third of the average poverty rate affects the elderly population, then that is clearly true. However, the government is not satisfied with the generally taken pension increase that will always be above inflation, but the proposal on the budget for the next year includes an increase in the income of the most deprived elderly, the elderly with the lowest pension, the elderly, the average rate of which will be around 5.3 and 6.3 percent, and will be indexed from the next year. Thus, not only in terms of average pension increases, but also in terms of older people with the lowest pensions, it is possible to start the increase and indeed to surround older people with guarantees that help them in all aspects of age security. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-12-46	I now give the floor to Congressman László Szászfalvi.
u2016-05-12-47	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. The Finance Act is a very important framework for the citizens of the state and the state, it is of crucial importance for economic processes and the state sector, for the lives of Hungarian families. From this point of view, it is safe to say that next year's budget bill sets us a stable and predictable framework. It continues or strengthens processes that have been able to start in a positive direction in recent years. The most important priority for KDNP is the situation of Hungarian families, the family support instruments of the budget and their financial coverage. So let me talk about these family support priorities in a few points, first of all, about family tax relief and its increase in the next year's budget law. The government will further increase the support of families with children, the family tax allowance for families with two children will increase to HUF 15,000 per child. In 2015 it was 10 thousand forints, in 2016 it was 12 500 forints. It affects about 350 thousand families, giving the families a HUF 15 billion surplus in 2017. Allow me to give you some figures on recent years. After the introduction or re-introduction of the family tax relief, the number of parents in 2011 was 1 million 17 thousand, 1 million 105 thousand in 2012, 1 million 113 thousand in 2013, 1 million 103 thousand in 2014, and 1 million 100 thousand in 2015. The amount used was HUF 180 billion in 2011, HUF 184 billion in 2012, HUF 185 billion in 2013, HUF 190 billion in 2014 and HUF 190 billion in 2015 respectively, i.e. in total with this policy of the government, tax reduction and family tax relief policy, in the last five years, it has left a total surplus income of HUF 930 billion for families to support children. The expansion of the family tax reduction occurred in January 2014 on the proposal of KDNP, not only from 16 per cent, but also from the 10 per cent pension and 7 per cent health insurance contributions. The extension is, of course, a real bonus for families with more children. Young married couples continue to benefit from tax relief, the tax base of the couple can be reduced by HUF 33 335 per month for up to two years, even if a child is born. Tax reductions to help families have contributed substantially to halting and reversing negative demographic trends. Another of these very important family support tools is home-building support. 2017 will also be the year of home creation, according to the government's view, the existence of its own home is one of the most important conditions for civil setting up. The goal is to give every Hungarian person their own apartment or house at an affordable price. In the next year's budget, HUF 211 billion was allocated to support the home creation of Hungarian families. The most important elements are the family housing discount that can be used to buy new and used apartments, the state-supported preferential loan and the VAT reduction. The government continues to support house savings, 30 percent tax relief is available, and in 2017 national home-building communities will be in operation, with an additional HUF 3 million in support of home-building in a 10-year perspective. I'd like to talk a little bit more about this home-building program. The new home creation programme means, on the one hand, the benefit, non-refundable support for families and the related interest-supported loan and, on the other hand, the reduction of housing VAT and the promotion of NOK, the establishment of national home-building communities. With a home-building discount, families with homes can have children they want. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Yes!]] Young people who raise three children or undertake to have three children within 10 years will be entitled to a discount of HUF 10 million immediately. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: It's not that simple!]] The construction provides an opportunity for gradual use, i.e. families can receive the next part of the support for every child born. When selling new apartments, the 27 percent general VAT rate decreased to 5 percent, so anyone who buys a flat in the next four years will benefit from this discount. In order to avoid disadvantages for families starting on their own, the government introduced tax return aid for them. This means that if the builder does not entrust the main contractor, but organises the construction itself, he can claim the difference between the VAT content of the invoices for the purchased construction material and the construction services used up up to HUF 5 million. A further element of the home creation programme is the national home creation communities: the members joining the construction undertake to pay a fixed amount at a pre-specified rate. In addition to saving, the community will advance the remaining amount free of interest to members who are selected by classification over a period of more than ten years. The construction also comes with state aid, which amounts to 30% of the deposit obligation, but not to more than HUF 25 thousand per month. Savings can only be used to buy new property. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, A very important element of the family support tool system, a very important new element of the family tax reduction: from 1 January 2017 the VAT on milk, poultry and eggs will be reduced to 5 percent. Prior to this, the VAT on pigmeat decreased to the same level already in 2016. [[12.20]] VAT rates for restaurant services and internet access are reduced to 18%. In 2017, 15 percent will remain the key to personal income tax, which is one of the lowest in Europe. Thanks to all these measures, a Hungarian family has an average of 35-40 thousand HUF more money left in 2017. Finally, there is also a very important area that affects Hungarian families in a very natural way, and these are career plans and wage management programmes. The government provides predictability and wage increases adapted to the burden-bearing capacity of the economy by means of career models and other targeted wage increases. The programmes started will continue in 2017, the salaries of teachers will not only increase as set out in the career model launched in 2013 but can also be placed in a higher payment category thanks to the gradually completed rating system from 2015. For teachers, researchers and teachers in higher education, the government will implement 15 percent in 2016 and 5-5 percent in 2017 and 18. Professional law enforcement and defence workers received an average salary increase of 30 per cent from 1 July 2015 and subsequently receive an additional average salary increase of 5 to 5 per cent per year until 2019, i.e. a total average salary increase of 50 per cent. As of 1 July 2016, thanks to the career model of state officials, there will be wage-setting at district government offices and from 2017 at county level, with a total of 33 400 people, and after the restructuring of the background institutional system, larger and larger stocks. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me, after all, to talk about the larger families for a few thoughts, namely, the family of the nation, in the area of national politics. What does the 2017 budget bill say about national policy? In short, I can say that significant progress will be made from 2016 onwards, as the 2016 budget included HUF 22 billion 248 million, compared to which the national political resources in the 2017 budget bill will increase to HUF 29 billion to HUF 343 million, some HUF 7.1 billion. Let me highlight some of these numbers. There is a significant increase in national political activity in the Prime Minister's Office, with a subsidy of 6.5 billion compared to 4.9 billion. That's an extra one-and-a-half billion next year. Many well-functioning national political programmes have been launched in recent years, the last of which is the Sándor Petőfi programme. All these national policy activities and programmes will be supported by next year's budget plus 1.5 billion, a total of 6.5 billion. Support for cross-border higher education is significantly increasing, from 401 million to 801 million HUF. In recent years, we have significantly increased the amount spent on the Unlimited! programme, which I think is an important, highlighted and supported programme for each faction. In the coming year, a similar increased amount will be included in the Unlimited! programme, the implementation of which is in the common interest of all of us. Next year, the Bethlen Gábor Fund will see an increase of around 5.6 billion. In the last year and in the year that passed, in 2016, there was 11 billion HUF 807 million, and in the following year the programme support will increase to 17 billion. This means that the budget support of the Bethlen Gábor Fund will increase by 5.6 billion. We know very well that priority programmes have already been implemented in the last year and in 2016 which have been carried out by case-by-case decisions, but in the following year this could be incorporated into the budget of the Bethlen Gábor Fund, and this will make budget support for cross-border programmes more predictable and stable. All these budget figures do not include the additional programmes that we all know well, as a 50 billion-dollar economic development programme has been launched in Vojvodina, Southern Hungary, which also represents a huge step forward in national policy, as economic development in Vojvodina is extremely important. The same programme will be launched in Transcarpathia, with a budget of about 20 billion. I think these are major national policy, national strategy decisions, steps and programmes that significantly enhance the vision, opportunity and economic and cultural development of our cross-border national bodies, our national communities. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, To sum up, I can say that the draft budget law, as we always say, is not perfect, because it is made up of people, people will vote for it, but in any case we can say that it will create a stable and predictable environment in 2017. The most important priorities can be found in it, in this case for us, for KDNP the most important priority is the situation of Hungarian families, and we see that in the coming year the budget bill will continue and strengthen the positive processes that have been launched in this case in the area of Hungarian families and the large family, the nation's family and national policy. I would ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of this bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-12-48	I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt.
u2016-05-12-49	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Before I go to the specifics and to the areas on which I would like to speak separately, allow me to say in a few introductory thoughts, although it has been said a few times why it is problematic if the budget is presented at such a time. It is problematic because the accounts for the implementation of the 2015 budget and the closing accounts have not yet been submitted to the Parliament. So we don't know if everything's okay in 2015. Obviously, the Parliament will give its consent, as the representatives of the Fidesz-KDNP sit here with a majority of almost two thirds, but the government has not formally accounted for the year 2015. In addition, we do not see the facts of 2016 either, as it has not been long enough to say that we can see broadly the evolution of the 2016 budget. So we can only see the numbers that we have planned for 2016, but how this ends, we cannot calculate this in any way. Compared to this comes the 2017 figures, which actually hang in the air without seeing either the facts of the year 15 or the actual or already accurate drafts of the year 16 or the precise closing numbers of the year. This is also important because we are actually setting up a budget in the air and, in parallel, even the amendments to the 2016 budget are subject to a series of amendments, unfortunately, even some changes to the 2016 budget are expected to take place in the course of the year. [[12.30]] Old problem: In 2010, the government promised to create a national inventory, to know what we have, what the common assets are that the government is managing. This hasn't happened since then. So this wealth register is waiting for you, and the lack of this trust register, which we can call a national inventory, has a serious influence on how the government is stewarding our common assets. Then there is no plan for staffing, as it is not enough to spend personal expenses at some ministries, some institutions, because it does not matter how many people, how many administrative employees or how many senior employees we spend it on. Because just because it's rising doesn't show how the government wants to act in terms of numbers. It can be said that this is a flexible approach, and it gives the government a great opportunity to act as he thinks; we believe this is an excessive mandate, and the principle of detail does not comply with the budget in this form. Then, if we are talking about a budget, some thoughts must also be made about the Hungarian National Bank, because the payments that should have taken place in the form of dividends have been cancelled in recent years. To mention some figures: in the last four years, the result of the exchange rate change of the Hungarian National Bank, hold on, was HUF 1047 billion, some of which should have been paid as dividends. We know that, as a result of the outrage and scandals, perhaps 50 billion has now been promised, but the fact that we are talking about more than a thousand billion forints, which have been realised at the Hungarian National Bank since 2012, is a figure that, if we look at the latest sovereign debt figures, the figures of 31 March 2016 - the Hungarian Government Debt Management Centre, so we are not talking about the figures obtained from air - we see that Hungarian government debt was HUF 25 473 billion. If we added these two figures, the Hungarian government debt would have been reduced by more than 4 percent if the Hungarian National Bank had paid these funds, but even if it had paid half of them, the Hungarian government debt would have been significantly reduced. Not to mention that these funds could have been spent on anything else, but the worst thing that could be done is that they were dumped on different foundations, which they were trying to encrypt for a reason, and now we can see why, when these facts were made public. But going further, because the opposition's time is limited in these speeches, I would like to give an example of why the breach of the principle of detail is a problem. For example, in the Ministry of Interior budget, as we did last year, we can see how much money we spend on the police or how much we spend on personal benefits - more than 200 billion. But for example, the county police headquarters are not included in this, and we do not see any breakdowns about them, so the National Assembly cannot even see how much Budapest, Borsod or other counties receive within the police department. Of course, the government will be able to decide that, but we would like to see if, where appropriate, more money is made available to the counties where public security has been established, as well as where people rightly expect to increase expenditure, even with regard to the police. And then I don't even talk about higher education; the different institutions in the higher education sector do not appear, while this was previously a practice. In this way it is impossible to compare exactly how much we give; and I have already said that it seems unrealistic to expect us to know the number of headcounts, that county breakdowns at the police headquarters also determine whether the number is growing or if it is going to decrease. Going forward, there are some things that are mentioned as lower costs in some places, and we can therefore express our views on them. We found a line in the State Department's budget that preserves foreign Hungarian memories. That's nice and good, 15 million forints. Then, further down, we see in the sequence that we are spending 140 million forints on the financial resources needed to maintain the Afghan national security forces. You may say that this is an international obligation, as it may indeed be, but it might be time to review these. I do not know how much longer it is necessary to transfer ten times the money intended to preserve Hungarian national monuments directly to the Afghan national forces. I believe that this money could be spent for better purposes than this, but at least it is included in the budget and can be critical, but we can say that that is not necessarily what taxpayers meant when they paid their taxes. Then contribute to the EU budget. Our favourite series of data, which includes nearly HUF 320 billion, which Hungary pays to the EU from all our taxes and VAT revenues, but not only directly to the EU, but also to see the British correction, and not only this year, but unfortunately, constantly HUF 22 billion - thanks to the British, they are happy to accept it - and for Denmark, the Netherlands, Sweden, it is true that only HUF 2.7 billion, but if you look at the principles, these money also comes from Hungarian taxpayers. That's nearly 320 billion forints. You can say how much money will come in from the European Union, but we have clarified it on the European Union debate day, and we did not agree: we may have a thousand billion HUF item available to Hungary to call it off, but on the one hand we cannot draw the entire amount, but if we can call it off, we can draw it off for purposes that do not necessarily help the Hungarian economy, often for visual investment, often for prestigious investments, and even in these cases, these investments have an amazingly high rate of corruption. Unfortunately, small and medium-sized enterprises have little access to these funds. So what can be said - I do not exaggerate - is that if we spent roughly one third of this 320 billion forints as a gift to us as EU money, or many people think that we will receive it as a gift, targeted, properly, with engineering precision, to boost the Hungarian economy, say, to help small and medium-sized enterprises, we would achieve much more results than to pay it, and the EU will tell us that it is true that more money on paper, but unfortunately, in terms of the result, we can call it off less effectively. But let's talk about the Justice Department. I don't want to go into the entire Ministry budget because there's not enough time to do that. We can see again 500 million HUF to improve the quality of legal education, which is a very nice thought and 100 million HUF to compensate the victims of crime. But again, we do not see - and I also initiate this as an amending proposal - a compensation fund that would open up to the victims of crime, for the victims who had received it in vain, in a civil damages suit, in vain, they were awarded the sums they had suffered, but they could not recover it from whom, because if the perpetrator had property, the State would take it to the criminal costs, and if there were any property available, the victims or their relatives would no longer see anything. This is a terrible thing to say because even proposals to make an exchange in the order of satisfaction can be made with the Minister's permission, so first, the victims should be paid, and then the state would wait its turn in terms of criminal costs and try to collect it in 20-30 years, as it thought. This would be all the more appropriate if it were, because the state always says that it has a monopoly on violence, an exclusive monopoly to protect its citizens. However, if you do not do so, I believe that it is not only your moral but also your legal responsibility to withstand the damage that citizens are forced to suffer as victims of a crime, and that the state will take on financial responsibility, or at least the exchange of order in this respect, so that the perpetrator will be tried by the state to collect these amounts. We would recommend a sum of one billion forints. In my opinion, this is not a high amount of money in terms of the overall budget, and also in relation to the responsibility on the state to protect its citizens, it is a minimum amount. Different principles could be developed for this distribution, but at least such a fund is already available. In the end, I would like to recall very briefly two of my amendments, which are made by XXII. connected to the district and the 18th constituency. I would like to recommend two investments to the Parliament, given that small investments have also been included in the budget in many places. [[12.40]] One would be an investment by the Danube, the XXII. in the district, it would affect the surroundings of Ship and Duna Street, in the municipal area a sports-recreational public park, a sports facility for everyone; obviously it is not a stadium, but the facility should be understood as a sports area in an orderly environment, for recreational purposes for citizens and not only for XXII. This would be a step forward from the district, but also from the South Buda, and could boost not only the sports life of the whole area, but also the mass sports and recreation habits of the entire South Buda. The other, the Nagytétény-Ohegy district, is to be introduced into the interior and converted into a construction zone. At the moment, in vain to Budapest, the XXII. It belongs to a district, but it can't be built on this, it's a closed garden section. All the more so, because this could be done with a government view or a small amount of budget size. And there could be a zone where, by the way, it would be possible to build houses, to build real estate, to land... - or to invest in such solutions, or to develop this neighborhood; or to satisfy the need and the hunger for new homes, which the government would obviously see when it created the CSOK. A good opportunity could be created in the district of South Buda by spending a small amount of money. So I ask the government to support this and create the opportunity for the people living here and the whole of South Buda to live in a better environment. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-12-50	I now give the floor to Secretary of State Tuzson Bence.
u2016-05-12-51	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Indeed, there are situations that we can safely call a historical situation. For example, the case where a country is able to obtain serious EU support, and what it is really important to use this support for, is what it is, so it is okay to have a little discussion about it, a little debate. After all, in this budget cycle, a HUF 12 000 billion development money can flow into the economy along with the domestic part, i.e. a development resource of EUR 12 000 billion. What this country is investing in is of particular importance because we do not know that if this cycle, this EU cycle, ends, then what will happen next, whether there will be EU funds, whether there will be any such type of funding. Therefore, the government has already made the decision that most of these funds should be used for the development of the Hungarian economy in such a way that 60% of this total, of this money, should be transferred directly to the economy and, above all, to support small and medium-sized enterprises. If my fellow Member looks at the applications that have just been launched or the applications to be launched or the applications that have recently been in place, it can be seen that a significant part of the amount is still flowing to small and medium-sized enterprises. It can be said that this must, of course, be further developed and that small and medium-sized enterprises should be supported as much as possible. After all, small and medium-sized enterprises are the ones that can be the main engines of the economy for both job creation and, on the other hand, the other large companies who arrive in the country on the side of production can be suppliers, thus helping the economy to function in this way as well as in the operation of the economy. So it is no coincidence that the government and, accordingly, the Parliament have decided to take the support in this direction. So any statement contrary to this is false, because the reality is that a significant part of the amount can flow directly to the economy, in line with the government's intentions, because it will be able to develop the economy itself. In the long term, economic development will be able to generate tax revenues that will help the economy to develop further without EU funds. So we can say that this is a multiplicative effect, if we put money there, it will eventually flow back to the economy, and if the economy goes well, then tax revenues will also increase, if tax revenues increase, then schools and kindergartens can be set up in Hungary, and welfare expenses can be made, and this is particularly important. This is also particularly important because if the Hungarian government ever talks about economic and economic development, it always talks about this with the families. After all, family policy and economic policy must be closely linked, the two must go hand in hand with each other, which is the basis of our philosophy. Because we believe that a well-functioning country can only build on happy families, and happy families can only function if a large part of the funding comes through the family, because it is the basic social unity from which the nation will eventually be built. That is why we want our tax system in this direction, and we wanted to improve it in the past, and that is what it is about, if you look at it, all of our measures concerning tax systems. This is, for example, about the reduction of personal income tax, which was published earlier. When we reduced personal income tax from 16 to 15 percent last time, it meant a HUF 100 billion item for Hungarian families, which increased the income. And extending the system of family tax incentives will further help families, since from 2017 onwards, families with two children will receive two forints of 15 thousand, or 30 thousand forints of tax relief for these families, who are raising two children in their families. And we cannot, of course, pass the VAT cuts, which have been said here several times. And that is why I would like to draw the attention of my fellow socialists to the fact that, if they are already talking about VAT reductions in this regard, we would like to draw attention just a little bit to how they have acted in terms of VAT, and what was the step when, in the heat of an election campaign, VAT was cut by 10 percent and then suddenly raised again after the election. I don't think that's what we call a VAT reduction, and if they're talking about a tax reduction, it's okay if they just go a little bit into themselves and look at it in the light of that. After all, the fundamental goal of having an appropriate amount in a economy is to give back to people in what form, because our basic philosophy is that if the economy develops, a significant part of it must be returned to people in tax reductions, it must be a very important decision, a thoughtful decision, and not just an election hack when the tax system is hacked, not counting the consequences of achieving a certain election success. Accordingly, when we are talking about a tax reduction, it is no coincidence that we started with the VAT on the most important foods last year, as the VAT reduction of pig meat introduced in several stages, including live animals, half-carcases, and then capital meat, was introduced. This was the segment in the meat area where families spent the most money numerically, so financially, because it was one of these around 120 billion in the previous years. By the way, it confirmed our assumption, on the one hand, that prices here followed the VAT reduction and, on the other hand, consumption also increased. Accordingly, in addition to the whitening of the economy, of course, as this has been a serious impact, it is worth continuing this journey, and it is worth continuing this process in terms of the performance of the economy in terms of the most important food, and indeed also reducing VAT for eggs, milk and poultry, since the combined effect of these VAT reductions is also a hundred billion-dollar item, so this is what it means for Hungarian families. And when we talk about the budget, it is indeed a very important question of when a government will submit its budget. It's been said several times by you here that the government is putting it in early. I say that, yes, the government will submit it early enough; so the government will present it at a good time, because the previous year has also demonstrated the economic impact of a well-designed, pre-funded budget, how economic operators react to it, how a country reacts to it, and what it means for growth. It is no coincidence that the economy has grown in a way that goes beyond our expectations in the last period. This is partly due to the Government's well-designed and premeditated timely, timely and sufficiently early submission of the budget. In the case of a budget submitted at the same time, we expect economic operators to be able to calculate exactly what economic processes will be in Hungary next year, 2017 how taxation will develop, how people will be able to pay wages and what economic environment businesses will arrive in Hungary. [[12.50]] Yes, because it is very important for the country to have a budget that is attractive for external investors as well as for those who bring production to Hungary, and therefore we must encourage production and production companies to arrive in the country. This current budget also promotes this, has created a structure that guarantees a predictable future for entrepreneurs and is transparent in this budget. It is no coincidence that progress must be made in the direction in which the budget is as short as possible, and accordingly, it has already been eliminated in a transparent manner, so that there is no shortage on the operational side of the budget, but on the other hand, there is a deficit on the development side. Developments should be made that can help to improve people's well-being on the one hand and to promote the functioning of the economy and the functioning of the economy on the other. Therefore, it is important that we do not stop or stop developments in Hungary, contrary to certain claims, because developments in terms of economic growth, in terms of tax revenues, from which we will be able to build schools and kindergartens later, as I said, will also have a serious impact from that point of view. Accordingly, it is necessary to establish a budget which, on the one hand, does not cause a shortage on the operational side, the deficit is only on the development side, but in the country there should be improvements that can also help the economy to grow. And when I referred to the important aspects of the growth of the economy in relation to family policy, then family policy and economic policy, which should be discussed together, should also be discussed: when we are doing family policy, we also have to pay attention to growth, that is, when we create a system that we call a home creation programme, then this should be created in addition to helping Hungarian families to get home as soon as possible, the growth of the Hungarian economy, and also the question, which in the long term is also an economic issue, to reverse the trend of the declining population in Hungary, and although this gap is decreasing now, but it is still negative, this negative should turn into a positive direction, and this requires a good family policy and a family support system. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-12-52	I now give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre.
u2016-05-12-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Every year, the soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces perform beyond their strength. Last year they proved that if necessary, they could close the Hungarian green border within months with hundreds of kilometres of safety barriers. In the Hungarian-Serbian border section, the temporary security barrier was built last autumn, and the migration wave was contained with the help of the soldiers. From the beginning, the Hungarian Defence Forces have been actively involved in the management of the crisis caused by mass immigration. At present, their basic task is to support police work, thus guaranteeing the safety of our country. Their professional skills, accuracy, conscience and commitment have so far been highly appreciated by the members of the international community in all missions and are highly valued in many crisis regions around the world. Hungary's economic situation is increasing year after year, so there is more for defence. In terms of budgetary resources, the main amount of support for the defence chapter will be significantly increased by HUF 53.7 billion by 2017. This represents an increase of almost 20 per cent compared to the previous year's appropriations. This amount corresponds to almost 0.94 percent of the nominal GDP forecast for the future. This indicator is also important because the increase in defence expenditure was announced by the Prime Minister at the NATO Summit in Wales in September 2014. Hungary will continue to bring its defence expenditure closer to the NATO average, and this will continue to happen next year. The Hungarian Defence Forces are also responsible for other military obligations arising from federal and international contracts. It is particularly important to carry out joint defence, peacekeeping and humanitarian tasks and to contribute to the military tasks of the fight against international terrorism with the forces assigned and prepared for it. We are actively taking part in NATO's international missions. The 2017 budget proposal also takes into account the involvement of the Islamic State against the terrorist organisation, the necessary expenditure for proportionate participation in operations in Afghanistan in line with the intensity of NATO military operations, and provides resources to maintain the presence in the Balkans and Africa. Hungarian diplomacy was among the first to speak because of the brutal attacks committed by the Islamic State, which contradict all human values. It is important to note that if we cannot find a solution to the repression of the Islamic State as soon as possible, we must expect that immigration pressure will not decrease at the borders of Europe, because one of the root causes of this is the increasing reservation of territories by the Islamic State, so the participation of Hungarian soldiers in Iraq is crucial. During the missions, the soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces have demonstrated that their tasks have been carried out according to expectations, meet the challenges, and are able to cooperate effectively, thereby contributing to the strengthening of the positive international image of our country. The expenditure of international tasks in 2017 amounts to nearly HUF 12 billion, which were established taking into account the NATO and EU operations planned for 2017 and the corresponding Hungarian engagement. According to the Government's decision, a new military career was introduced in 2015 and, in this context, a reform of the salary system of the military soldiers. On 1 July 2015, an average of 30 per cent of the salary was paid, and with effect from 1 January each year until 1 January 2019, the salary of the soldiers increased by 5 per cent. The 2017 budget proposal also provides cover for this year's and next year's annual salary development of 5 per cent of the military career model, as well as the issue of civil protection allowances for civil servants. The last significant salary increase previously made by the defence personnel was in 2002. Through the development of a new military career, the military profession can become a career bridging the real military career as a whole, thus strengthening the preservation of the Hungarian Defence Forces. The budget also includes resources for 2017 for expenditure incurred by the Ministry of Defence and the Hungarian Defence Organisations in connection with migration tasks and terrorist threats. Last year more than one and a half million immigrants, or a small country, entered Europe illegally, and 390,000 arrived through our country, which is a serious task for Hungary. Following the closure of our borders, the number of people wishing to cross Hungary has decreased to a few hundred a day, but the migration crisis has not stopped, and there is a need for measures to ensure the security of our borders. [[13.00]] The attacks in Paris and Brussels have shown that unregulated illegal immigration poses a real security risk. Expenditure related to mass immigration and terrorist threats in 2017 was covered in the chapter of the Ministry of Interior in 2016, as in 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian Defence Forces must always be in such a state that they can be immediately available for the safety of Hungary and its citizens at any time, anywhere, for any task. Hungary is living the years of an emerging era. A step can also be taken forward in 2017. This can also be said in the area of security, because the government has been developing this area for years, thus guaranteeing the safety of Hungarian people. Due to recent terrorist acts in Europe and the simultaneous migration crisis associated with them, the government needs to give priority to the security of the Hungarian people. Due to the deterioration of our security environment, there is a need to increase the defence budget, which is ensured by the country's growing economy year after year. We'll protect the country. Since the budget has been drawn up accordingly, please vote in favour of the adoption of the budget bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-12-54	I now give the floor to István Ikotity.
u2016-05-12-55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, With regard to the budget, I would like to talk about the education and health chapters, their budgetary aspects and their expected impact in 2017. First of all, I would like to say, as has been said many times, that we have received the budget proposal in a new form this year, and the changed structure of the budget makes it fundamentally difficult to see clearly in the area of education. It was not fair on the part of the government that only the chapter justifications published on Monday finally revealed the precise public expenditure for each budget line. Of course, we didn't get all the answers. The source or purpose of billions of forints remains unknown. This does not help the responsible legislation at all, although transparency should be a very important requirement for a fiscal law. Let's go to public education first. Last week, Minister of Human Resources, Zoltán Balog said that this year the surplus of KLIK will be HUF 91.5 billion compared to the initial allocation, and next year's budget will be HUF 105.6 billion plus. He also indicated that overall public education could count on an additional 130 billion in next year's budget. These numbers finally come back in the budget, unlike the previous years, where we could hear numbers, but then we couldn't see them in the budget. However, reality is much more nuanced than that. I'll explain what I'm thinking in detail. Let us begin by saying that, in vain, KLIK receives HUF 105.6 billion in additional funding if some of these results from previous measures, for example, from the current and last installment of the teacher's wage increase given in several instalments against the original promise, from teacher ratings or from the introduction of free textbook supply in the ascending system. This is not a real additional resource, but the necessary financing of the measures that will enter into force. If these are deducted, the additional resources of the KLIK are only HUF 71.1 billion, which is called a substantially balanced surplus in this line of work. It should also be added that, compared to last year, there is an item of 126 billion, which is no longer accounted for under the KLIK, but elsewhere, in different places, which can be found under the title of null and square changes between chapters. Only a minimal part of this reveals where the source to date is or is no longer classified under the CLIK. There's no evidence of a decisive part of it. Note that in a responsible budget planning, it is totally unacceptable for hundreds of billions to be packed here and there, constantly varying in accounting, using hundreds of tricks to bring out the numbers that are favourable to the government at the end. Like KLIK's 105.6 billion-dollar item, it is an increase that, in addition to KLIK, the line entitled Human Service and Operating Support for Public Education is growing from 166 billion to 189 billion forints. This line of support provides support for non-state schools, which mainly provides salaries for teachers and workers working in non-state institutions. The LMP hopes that real progress will finally be made in the case of non-state schools, and, contrary to previous years, when the desensitization of foundation schools has not come to light in a single step, they will finally be supported. This 23 billion-dollar increase, added to KLIK's 105 billion-dollar increase, could be the virtually 130 billion-forint sum that Zoltán Balog named as an additional source of public education. Therefore, the sources of public education are indeed increasing for 2017, compared to the 2016 - I repeat, 2016 - appropriation, because if we deduct it from this 136 billion and now we are in the middle of May, the 91 billion that has increased KLIK's resources this year compared to the 2016 allocation, it is clear that this is only 40 billion, which has been referred to as 130 billion; but we acknowledge that it is indeed an increase. This was very necessary, especially if we look at the continuous, if not even steady, but continuous decline in the last few years, which is fully in place in the field of public education. But let us not forget that the school system lacks HUF 200 billion annually. As a result of the cuts that have been taking place since 2010, I'm sorry, the obvious cuts in resources started long before 2010... but since 2010, the distribution of funds has evolved in a way that KLIK has failed. The last year is basically about the struggle of the state mammoth institution, which students and educators have suffered during the day-to-day work. However, we cannot say that at least 2010 states will be restored in terms of funding education. In view of the real sources of operation, only half of what has been withdrawn so far will be recovered, I repeat, if we take the 2010 situation as a basis. It is also only for next year, because over the years there has been a shortage of nearly 1000 billion in resources in this area. Of course, we do not think that the restrictions, as I mentioned earlier, started in 2010. It wasn't Bajnai Gordon who started it. Since 2003, education expenditure has been declining. GDP-related financing has decreased by a third since the early 2000s. The MSZP-SZDSZ and Fidesz-KDNP governments together took money from kindergartens, schools, colleges, universities. If there's a cross-border trend, that's what it was. In fact, neither Ferenc Gyurcsány nor Gordon Bajnai nor Viktor Orbán had any interest in the future of Hungarian education, since they constantly touched its funding by reducing its resources. They weren't sorry to take the money from the schools. Returning to funding, let us also refer to the fact that already this year the KLIK will receive HUF 91.5 billion, thus compensating for this institution's enormous debt. Compared to this, next year's appropriations will only increase by HUF 14 billion, which is less than 1 percent of the total education expenditure. You can watch next year's growth from here, which seems even smaller. [[13.10]] It should be noted here that so much for the disappearance of the state institutionkeeper, which he announced not so long ago, is Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. We see that it doesn't go away, named KLIK lives longer. We do not know exactly what form, but what we do see is that not only one, but 57, so this institution is multiplying by division, let alone disappear, it has become more. I'd like to move on to higher education. This year, there were 153 billion full state support for universities and colleges, which will increase to 204 billion forints in principle next year. This will virtually restore the withdrawal of the restrictions after 2010, at least on paper. However, if we look behind the processes, the picture is somewhat more nuanced here as well. The new campus of Lajos Mocsai's Physical Education University, which costs HUF 17.5 billion, as well as the capacity development of the University of Pécs provides a total of HUF 12.3 billion. We welcome the development of Pécs, but it is really sad how little money there is for the higher education staff to develop their wages, only HUF 2.7 billion. Lajos Mocsai receives 6.5 times more funding than the increase in wages of employees in the entire higher education sector, and this is a very serious imbalance. We are not sorry about the new University of Physical Education, nor the money, but compared to this, teachers should not be paid so much, but vice versa, six times as much. The best-skilled, diligent students should be kept in the teaching and research career, and this would be the key to the quality of higher education if the market sector did not absorb talented young people or if they were not forced to emigration. There are therefore two major developments in higher education and an even larger share of a scholarship programme. According to the LMP, there is a serious deficiency in the fact that there is no more resources available for the operation of the institutions or that the increase in wages is minimal. The situation of the sector will thus not change in essence, although it has been significant since 2010, as in public education, and the Fidesz government has withdrawn HUF 50 billion from the operation of universities and colleges. These operating expenses will not be replaced, which is why they will not be able to sense much of this increase in resources in Eger, Szeged, Szolnok or Miskolc. Differences and inequalities remain, and teachers' wages are only paid by firefighters. If you look at the additional funding of 130 billion in public education and 45 billion in higher education, there is still 95 billion forints left, which cannot be identified according to the budget as to what is being spent in education. The LMP assumes that it is possible to channel EU funds into the budget to improve the figures and to say how much they spend on the area. Unfortunately, given the Hungarian government's attitude to EU development resources and the need for money of close-to-government friends, it is feared that from this HUF 95 billion item, to put it mildly, not all forints will be used for their purpose. So how serious is the increase in resources in the educational area? Not nearly as much as it might appear at first glance. The former withdrawals will not be recovered, but there will be some more money available only for public education, but the heavily indebted state institution maintenance would otherwise not be operational. In the case of higher education, we do not see any additional per capita funding for universities or colleges. Compared to this, what Possibly Other Policy would suggest is how you would imagine funding the educational area. We have been saying for a very long time, from the outset, that funding for public education and higher education should be radically increased in the medium term. We would spend 15-20 forints of every 100 HUF budget on education, i.e. on the future. Strengthening the educational area is a key to the country's competitiveness and sustainable development. If we don't spend any more on education, we'll stay here in the long run, everyone where they are, there won't be any progress. Of course, there is not only a need to spend more, but also to use resources wisely. None of these conditions are currently met. The specific LMP budget changes concern the following items: we would return the missing HUF 200 billion to the school system in the field of public education. This would only mean getting to the 2010 level in real terms, which would be our starting point, and then spending 15-20 forints out of every 100 forints in the medium term, as I mentioned earlier, on education. We would put the teacher's career model in order, and we wouldn't miss out on the salary increase for staff directly helping teachers. It is a serious injustice that nurses working alongside teachers, pedagogical assistants, labists, librarians, IT experts, school secretaries, and in fact, they have not received a single forint wage increase since 2010. Their wage arrangements continue to be delayed, although their real income has decreased by 25-30 percent since 2008 when their salaries were last increased. Many of them live under a minimum wage, unable to support their families. This in itself is unfair, especially because it has grown to teachers in given jobs and they have not increased their salary. This serious inequality would be corrected by this proposal of the LMP. In disadvantaged areas, we would build a network of developers and educators. We'd like to give a serious allowance to educators in disadvantaged small areas. We would create priority areas for education, as we must recognise that priority support and priority assistance are needed in the most disadvantaged areas. We would like to launch the national forest school programme for environmental education. The aim of the LMP is to ensure that all preschoolers and schoolchildren can get to a forest school at least once, regardless of the family's income situation. As regards the vocational training system, by restoring the four-year training period, strengthening theoretical training and developing the mentoring system, we would enable students to make a drummer both in higher education, adult education and higher education. Those who do not continue to learn will also have the skills to be retrained at any time later if required by the labour market. Right now, the government wants to destroy vocational secondary school training, both economic and multinational companies and Hungarian oligarchs. The LMP proposal points in the exact opposite direction, vocational training needs to be improved, its quality improved, and not the elimination of subjects. By launching the national adult education programme, we would give everyone a free opportunity to change their first profession, and we would do so regardless of age. Lifelong learning should be supported by all means. We would provide a free language exam for those who participate in or want to move on from the vocational training system. In the field of higher education, LMP says that the doors of higher education must be wide open. In the long term, our goal is to have at least 4 graduates out of 10 in Hungary. It is necessary to stop the rapid decline in the number of higher education candidates and students recruited, which has started in recent years, and then the stagnation that is now visible. We need as many graduates as possible, as the small and medium-sized enterprises that they have launched will bring back most of the 1.5 million jobs they lost at the time of the change of regime. They will also create jobs for those with lower education. Quality reform and European competitiveness of higher education cannot be imagined without drastic expansion of resources. We cannot do Europe's best higher education system in the foreseeable future, but we are able to be competitive at European level, our higher education system is a factor and an attractive alternative for many. For LMP, the priority is to save and develop higher education institutions in rural areas. Rural colleges and universities are needed to build their training structure on the needs of the local economy. The stimulation of the local economy and the development of higher education in rural areas are linked. This gives young people the prospect of not moving away from home because of the lack of opportunities. Therefore, the LMP would strongly support higher education institutions in rural areas. [[13.20]] There is a need for higher education teachers to improve their wages, so that the academic career is also competitive against the market, and it does not absorb the best teachers and researchers. The higher education wage increase started should be corrected, as with public education workers, the higher education wage increase should be extended to all staff. It is a fundamental feature of the knowledge economy that it is capable of constant renewal. Without innovation and continuous adaptation to the changing challenges of the modern world, Hungary will never succeed. Not only are we looking at the labour market value of a diploma, but we want higher education where young people can emerge by acquiring the skills they need to think and work on their own. To this end, priority should also be given to the radical expansion of the budgetary resources of R &amp; D and innovation, the promotion of innovation centres, the development of a regional innovation system, the putting in place of innovative enterprises and such. The position of the LMP is solid: without innovation, we cannot build a successful country. It's not a gentleman's feat, it's a fad of university professors. Innovation should involve as many young people as possible and as many businesses as possible. To sum up, what is the aim of the LMP in education policy: radically increasing and changing basic and secondary education is to give everyone the opportunity to develop their abilities and make their dreams come true, and we want a country where social factors have the minimalest possible role in what one becomes. This depends solely on the individual's ability and diligence, not on the financial situation, family circumstances, and residence. Everyone should have the same opportunity to get into higher education through their knowledge and performance in public education, regardless of which secondary school in the country they applied to. And we'll tell you again, you can do this free of charge. According to the LMP, one of the main sources of economic development and job growth is the quality knowledge, preparedness and momentum of young people coming out of higher education. It should be noted that Hungary will not catch up with world-class higher education systems in the foreseeable future, but we are able to make Hungarian higher education internationally visible and competitive at European level, which is the only way to stop the migration of young people. The school is not for the government, but for the future, so it should be treated. And now, in the rest of my time, I'd like to move on to the health part of the budget. Studying the part of the budget on health in the 2017 budget, one thing is certain: the government will leave health in the same catastrophic situation as it has pushed it over recent years. If this draft budget will determine the situation of health in 2017, it is sad to say that patients will certainly not receive better care. Doctors, nurses, and skilled workers will continue to be drained, and they can't even dream of decent financial appreciation. And the institutions will only vegetate next year. Departure from the sector will not stop, but even more than the current situation will accelerate if it turns out that the government has deceived health workers. If we dig deeper into the issue of how the Hungarian health system has reached such a state, then we need to look back until the 2008 economic crisis, after which the financing of the area has not been restored. Failure to do so has intensified negative processes, and the sector is now clearly in crisis, from which it can only be recovered with decisive action and significant expansion of resources. With this in mind, there is an incomprehensible lack of care, as the Fidesz-KDNP government has managed health care since its establishment in 2010. The government is primarily responsible for hospital debt, which over the years has not followed inflation, minimum wage and currency exchange rates in terms of hospital fees. Although the State Secretary of Fidesz had a 20-percent raise in the past, it was not implemented, so hospitals' debt increases by HUF 4.6 billion per month. I repeat, hospital debt increases by 4.6 billion a month. Compared to the overall budget, health money is still not increasing. So it is still more important to invest in self-serving, enriching friends than in working health care. Speech is that the amount spent on the healthcare system is reduced from 8.5 percent to 8.4 percent compared to the total budget. There is no separate money for wage development to hide its true extent, probably only a fraction of the 100 billion announced will be raised. This will not stop the deportation of the nurses. This situation represents uncertainty, there is no guarantee of a wage increase. If you ask those health workers who have gone from Hungary to the West, the clear answer to the question is why they did this, what was the most important reason for it, often not so underfunded by the sector, often not even the conditions that are experienced in health institutions, the deteriorating conditions, not the lack or outdatedness of the means, but in most cases and most definitely the unpredictableness, the unpredictableness from which only one thing can be seen is that the amount of resources intended for this is constantly decreasing, the environment is constantly changing, there is no forward-looking, not a conceptual change happening here, but they are able to change concepts from one thought to another, from one moment to the next, there is no real concept at all. If Fidesz were to follow what Fidesz had worked out with a significant amount of money at the time, when he was making a program, then these things that I'm about to tell you are most likely - at least most of them - I couldn't say. So if you would have consistently observed them, you would have solved a great many of the things I have already listed and then listed. So his promises are not kept by the system and he's not moving predictablely. Taking into account some details: they do not plan to develop the Rescue Service, which means that despite the increase in the number of emergency stations, there will be no more cars, and even the age of cars will increase, their condition will deteriorate accordingly. The number of ambulances was over 200 less than 15 years ago. Therefore, it is no wonder that many times they are late to arrive at an alarm, so the time of arrival of an ambulance will continue to be mere luck. According to LMP calculations, only 3 billion forints could significantly improve the ambulance fleet. Moreover, the workers of the Rescue Service have not received any work clothes for years, and their wages are significantly lower than those of the Slovak colleagues. Air ambulances also have a chronic lack of resources, and helicopter purchases have been going on for years. This helicopter acquisition seems to be a constant problem in all areas. Dear House, There is a legitimate question as to what can be done about the situation, what should be done immediately by the government, or just what may be done by Other Politics in a similar decision-making situation. According to the LMP, a health wage increase is inevitable if we want a functioning health care system. What we can't do is expect all the people in the care system to do, make sure they're respected for their profession, but at the same time we're working them for hunger, unpaid overtime. Nice words and meaningless promises are starting to sound emptier in the crappy hospital corridors. Health professionals are the most sought-after in Western European countries, which is why they are not expected to lose the pull, so they should receive a wage at home that provides them with a decent living at home, so that Hungarian professionals do not be forced abroad. They should not offer multiples of their current salary than they would receive abroad, but as much of which they no longer have to spare at home, so raising basic wages by HUF 50,000 - and obviously this is only the first step - must happen immediately. [[13.30]] The government does not have any plans to reduce hospital debts. This requires an increase in the basic rates, but we do not see any evidence of that. Only by restructuring can inflation and exchange rate changes be balanced. According to the LMP, it is necessary to provide 35 billion forints annually in order to ensure that the debts of hospital institutions are settled in a satisfactory manner and will not be re-produced later. Hospital background workers also need to be paid, which would cost 15 billion forints. The stable functioning of air rescuers would also require an increase in resources. Here, we would provide them with a HUF 1 billion extra resource. The LMP would also provide significantly more funding for prevention in Hungary's 2017 budget than the government plans. A well-structured and socially embedded prevention structure can significantly reduce the number and severity of diseases. This not only means that the Hungarian society will be healthier, but also significantly reduces the state's health costs. Dear House, The recovery of health care is planned by the LMP in several steps. The first stage of this stepdial plan is overall wage planning, raising the hospital's basic fee, as is the modernisation of the paramedics' motor pool and medical equipment. It is also important to add a surplus to the background workers of health institutions, since they do not receive allowances as, let's say, professional staff. Ideally, giving them HUF 20 billion would be a fair step forward, and LMP believes that this amount would be appropriate for a fair wage correction. In wage increases, we insist on a basic wage increase for all, not a different allowance. So basic wage increases are essential. The Possibly Other is the concrete re-alignment proposals of the Politics are as follows. To underpin the ideal wage increase, an additional HUF 50 billion should be provided in the provision of preventive and curative care compared to the submitted draft budget. For the basic fee increase, you have to reserve HUF 35 billion, because this is the way to combat hospital debt. The postal costs of the pension insurance and health insurance may seem small, but it consumes a total of HUF 7.2 billion, which is already reduced compared to last year, but this is still unnecessarily high. Let there be real bureaucracy cuts, where some of this has to be electronised, and billions of them would be saved. The draft budget would set aside 4 billion for a project called the "Fantasia" for the preparation and execution of a new hospital in Budapest. The problem is that it was 1 billion forints last year, but we still don't know if there will be a new hospital. The Secretary of State says they won't, they'll just renovate you. According to LMP, a new renovation provision would make more sense. Dear House, In conclusion, health will be one of the biggest losers in the draft budget for 2017 submitted by the Government. This trend has been returning year after year, and it clearly shows the value crisis the Fidesz-KDNP government is suffering from. Hundreds of billions of completely unnecessary prestige investments go by, while the government does not consider the most pressing issues to be important for Hungarian society. I don't want to take the stadiums and the mini-rail much longer, but believe me, people know and see that the Orbán government is misguided. At least they'd start urinating when health and education were fixed, but unfortunately there's no sign of that. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-05-12-56	I now give the floor to Secretary of State Miklós Soltész.
u2016-05-12-57	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I don't want to hurt you, because you're obviously working on numbers that the large number of factions and the large number of experts have been able to pull out of this or get out of this budget. But when you say about a prime minister or anyone else that they're talking nonsense, there's no indication of what you said, I mean negative, if you don't want to accept so much the facts that are stubborn, which, on the basis of the facts, shows both public education and higher education and health in terms of numbers that there is a huge increase in support for these sectors. And just to raise awareness of you and your faction, and of your clapping left, what the extra cost of these sectors will be, I'll tell you. I think this is important for you, for the country, because we are going to distribute it well, there are professionals there, that is for sure, but for you, it is important because they talk all the time, the numbers are being lied, the reality is being lied, and in fact, they are fooling voters. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Reality is outside the wall!]] Dear Congresswoman, there's such a small machine in front of you, so feel free to press the button. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: You're high, Mr. Secretary of State!]] And 112 minutes and 17 seconds for the MSZP fraction to cry for the grief you're now yelling. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: I will tell you!]] So, Congressman, just to clarify the figures, the increase in public education will be 130 billion forints more than in the 2016 budget. Well, if that's not an increase for you, if the public education industry is losing the budget here, then I don't know what you're thinking and what you're living in. Higher education. The budget for higher education will increase by nearly HUF 45 billion the following year. If it's not a huge sum, even if you - and I'm about to discuss what you criticized - don't think it's a huge amount of money, then I don't know how you feel about numbers. And would your budget plans lead the country back to once again if they ever came to power to re-indebte it, just like the liberal government of MSZP-SZDSZ? Would I do the same? To live up to the future, to our children, our grandchildren, to live up to the future, to indebte the country as much as the previous left-wing government did? [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Secretary of State, mirror!]] Mr. Congressman, The way you're saying that you're throwing hundreds of billions on one side, and on the other, you don't recognize how much support there is, that's the only way to get it. This is what happened between 2002 and 2010, from 56 percent indebtedness to over 80 percent, and every single person in this country is having a very difficult time living it, and will continue to do so in the years to come, because such debt has been imposed on this country. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Secretary of State! Mr. Secretary.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I'll keep telling you that there's a little black gadget like this, you can put it up here, and then press the button. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Don't lecture me all the time, Mr. Secretary of State.]] And then he'll talk to her. The third area - and this is also a fact - is the area of health, the area of social security and welfare is growing by 155 billion, and by 167 billion forints the medical register is specifically. I'm sorry, Congressman. You're telling me this is nothing, loser, it's nothing? That's just amazing. If I may point out a few things, let me tell you that the very round table discussion has established a new educational proposal that the government has agreed to, which the government supports. You don't have to ask the anarchists, the few on the street, the ones who threaten to fire their teachers who don't want to agree with them. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Are all ten thousand people anarchists?]] but with those who sit down to negotiate, who make their arguments clear, and then, after the argument, a common picture and a joint proposal for a solution that will bring this sector to success, and which will result in this sector getting additional resources for the next year. And what you said in higher education is a net lie in many respects. In the first place, why do you say that the Hungarian higher education system is bad overall? Then why do 27,000 students come here to learn from abroad? [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: For ours are gone!]] Why has the number of people coming from abroad to higher education increased by 7,000 in the last three years? Why do you have to give additional money within the Stipendium scholarship system because foreigners are coming, which, by the way, has multiple effects? It's not just that they're paying rent here... [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: What about our children, Mr. Secretary of State?]] Dear Congresswoman, Calm down a little bit really, the servants can bring you some water, have a little drink, calm down, and talk to you afterwards. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: We don't talk to a lady like that, it's not nice!]] Honourable Congressman, Why do you say there's no result in this after all? [[13.40]] 27,000 students live here, spend here, even when they go home to their country, and then they will have a business relationship with us, with Hungarians, before they go to school with any other country. Why would you reduce this country's success, the success of the teaching network, to teach, raise, and then lead to a degree in this vast mass of foreign students? Why do you want to reduce this? I must equally reject you, honourable Member, to say that you are a Moscow University. First of all, Moscow Rector has put something on the table for the first time in the field of sport. When a man comes out of your mind, who will take Hungary to the silver medals either in the Olympics or at the World Championships, then he will say about such a man that he will build a university for himself. What do you think you're doing? ! The investment that is being built by the University of Physical Education will help thousands of students, young and educators to live! Why do you say Moscow University? It's a level of humiliation for someone... [[István Ikotity intervenes.]] [[István Ikotity intervenes.]] Excuse me, Congressman? (István Ikotity interrupts.) Honourable Congressman, In other words, you're gonna humiliate a man who's put a lot of money on the table, and in 10 to 15 years, they might call him Moscow University, but not because he's been doing it to himself. [[István Ikotity intervenes.]] It's not because he's been doing it to himself, it's because he's created a huge thing for society. Honourable Congressman, To conclude, it should be said once again that in both the areas of public education, higher education and health, there will be additional resources available to the government through the budget, thus making the area available to workers, educators and healers there, which will indeed raise standards. I would add that this is not decided by two people, ten people, twenty-five people, as is your system of proposals, but by the decision of hundreds of experts, this support system will be provided to certain disciplines. I think that depends on the future of Hungary, and all the other cuts you've said, I think it's impossible. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-12-58	The opportunity has come for Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély to comment on the debate in two minutes. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-05-12-59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm sorry Mr. Secretary Czibere didn't stay, but State Secretary Soltés will be fine. In the introduction to the family and youth sector, the following sentence is stated, and I would like you to explain that breaking the negative demographic trends that have been going on for decades is a matter of general government. I want you to answer what you're thinking. The next is a very serious issue: in the elderly area, the aim is to promote active ageing, active lifestyles for older people, and to strengthen intergenerational cooperation, in particular with regard to domestic relations, as well as to support the opportunities for distant family members to meet. Secretary of State Ónodi-Szűcs has just announced that they want to detach social beds from health care, prepare for a demographic vision, an increasingly ageing society. Within ten years, Hungary will have three million needy citizens. Now we understand, Mr. Secretary, why the civil code on parenting will be amended. The state won't have to take care of the elderly, it won't take care of our parents. Now, that is the civil value of Hungary from your point of view, Mr. Secretary of State. And then I think we should get off the high horse, Mr. Secretary. You don't have to lecture the congressmen here. You have to look in the mirror and throw that hideous thing out the window, you know. ? Because this is about everything, but not about Hungarian society, not about Hungarian people. You know, Mr. Secretary. ? One more sentence: you have changed the law, that despite the fact that this country has a budget and Parliament, you can vote for anything in a government decree at any time, we don't need it anymore. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, Mr. President.
u2016-05-12-60	I now give the floor to Congressman István Ikotity in two minutes.
u2016-05-12-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to answer your question to Secretary of State Soltes. I don't think I'd like to go into this in detail, if anyone's watching the TV that you've said has classified themselves. These numbers are facts. I'm not the one twisting them. You're saying they're an increase. I told you where to admit it's an increase. But, Mr. Secretary of State, think about it, if you turn 125 billion forints on KLIK in 2017, plus increase, this increase, but in 2016, you saw that it was not enough, and you had to add 91 billion forints, between 115 and 91 billion it is very easy to calculate the real increase, and it is only May, Mr. Secretary, so until May you had to help out KLIK by 91 billion. These two can safely be removed from each other, and we say 14 billion, and it's only May. [[Péter Cseresnyés: He doesn't even know the numbers!]] Who knows how much by the end of the year, until December 31st? Maybe more than 14. If it's more than 14, they don't just give more to state maintenance tasks, but less, Mr. Secretary of State. It's arithmetic, nothing else. There's simply no complexity in these numbers, I don't know why you can't admit it. What you said about the public education round table: not alternative organizations, themselves, you made a clown out of it. Think about it, Mr. Secretary-- [[Miklós Soltész consults with Tuzson Bence.]] I see that you are having a good conversation - if you would look at the fact that this round table of public education meets every two weeks, and not after the meeting, but before a meeting, how serious it is that the decisions made there can be said. Not at all! They went around this organization, tried to pretend that they made this decision together, but everyone can see that's not true.
u2016-05-12-62	I now give the floor to Congressman Márius Révész in two minutes.
u2016-05-12-63	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, I'm telling Bangóné Borbély Ildikó that he may expect his parents to be cared for by the state, by the way. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: I object! I didn't say that, Congressman.]] I, on the other hand, think I'll be happy to take the trouble that if my parents put me in that position, I'll take care of them for you. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: It's not that!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I also have to say that you can bring up the pensioners, but if we recall what happened there around 2009, you took a 13th month's salary. The value of pensions decreased by 8.4 percent. If you look at the annual comparison between 2010-2011-2012 and 2016, how the real value of pensions has changed overall, you will see that if you count 2010 as well, the real value of pensions has increased by 9.6 percent, if 2010 is not counted because of the transitional period, by 8.4 percent. So we can say that we have exactly returned the pension to the pensioners that you took from them. I would say to my colleague Ikotity, who left the room, that, unfortunately, he has no idea how the round table works. [[Péter Cseresnyés: Not even the numbers!]] The Round Table does indeed hold plenary sessions every two weeks, but between the two weeks, there is an ongoing meeting of the committees and the agreements reached in the committees, if they report before the Round Table, otherwise there is no problem. Congressman Ikotity said that in the amending budget that we can improve the situation of education, for example, this year, it is 90 billion forints, but it is not until May, but until the end of this year, of course, he knows that, but he juggles with numbers just as he juggles with numbers in every other case. To this budget, ladies and gentlemen, to say that in the field of health or education and in other areas, it does not mean a great deal of progress for members of society, who says that, or has not read the budget, or does not understand what is written in it. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-12-64	We're at the end of the two-minute circles. I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor Riz in a normal time frame.
u2016-05-12-65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I would like to contribute to the negotiation of the budget with some of the additions that are partly general and partly unique in that it is about my narrower country, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County, and within that it is about Ózd. As Secretary of State Tuzson very well summarized a few minutes ago, the EU resource available to Hungary between 2014 and 2020, together with important domestic accessories, outlines a development sheet, the important aspect of which after 2020 is how much the country can stand on its own feet. [[13.50]] This has such a strong foot that domestic small and medium-sized enterprises must be placed in a position to compete with any economic operator in Europe and compete with any other world partner in technology and innovation. There is 12,000 billion forints available for this purpose. Now is the time to use these resources rationally and wisely. It has also been said that domestic small and medium-sized enterprises should be placed in a position to form the backbone of employers, to be primarily the maintainers of the tax resource which will also help the economy and the state to function. It is important for this development period that the municipalities, compared to the previous period, when they are primarily urban architecturally - not incidentally, because the Hungarian settlement needed much to make the image of the settlement look pretty and beautiful - but also functionally rich. It is no coincidence that in the county of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén, where the county itself manages HUF 93 billion, and within this another 35 billion, we have set the goal of ensuring that the county and the county-righted city have all the infrastructure in the future, and that all its institutions are partly armed with human resources and, in part, with a backseat that plays a county or local role. A very important element of this is that domestic resources, complemented by EU funds, must serve the purpose of finding their place and role in this, both for the citizen, the entrepreneur, the farmer and the municipality. I would like to say a few concrete things with a further legislative background that reflects the Hungarian government's forward-looking and caring policy. It is not by accident that legislation has been adopted, a regulation governing the areas in which complex interventions must be carried out. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] In our county there are several of these, including my constituency, the Ozd constituency has three such walks, where complex development needs to be carried out. One of these measures, which the government has already taken and would like to continue from domestic sources, is that the road network must be developed from 21 to 23 through 25 to the main road 26 leaving the country, so that it can turn North Heves, North Borsod into the economic cycle in which it did not have a proper role and place in the absence of the road network. In the same way, a very important element of the budget is the item that makes this road two lanes, and it is also important that economic operators are able to connect to it, because where access is appropriate, local and wider players in the economy will be given the opportunity. It is also an important surface that one of the possible locations of the community college, which has recently been decided and designated by the government, will be Ozd. The community college is set up with the unconcealed intention of putting local human resources in a position to act as a potent player in the economy at jobs that already cry out where the workforce is. Unlike the previous period, we do not need to create jobs in Oz and its region in the first place, but we need to replace the workforce, because they are looking for more than 700 workers, from the trained worker to the middle manager to the engineer. Another important element of the budget is the fact that it talks about coal mining, and in some HUF 100 million it tries to provide opportunities for research materials, preparatory materials that try to bring coal back into the domestic cycle, not through the classical combustion of power plants, but by using clean coal technology. It is also important and reflects the government's restructuring policy that, from nearly HUF 4 billion, the Hungarian National Digital Archive has been given the opportunity to move the structure of the local economy primarily towards tourism and culture, enabling young people, middle-aged people and older people who will be able to work here in the field of information, pedagogy and tourism in the future to continue to serve local livelihoods and local sustainability. For this reason, I have submitted a package of nearly 10 billion dollars in addition to the projects implemented so far, in which this MaNDA, i.e. the Hungarian National Digital Archive, could expand with additional jobs that could absorb this type of work force in the region. It was a last and important idea, and one of the important points of the budget is that the HUF 300 million is also included this year, that, in the case of houses that have become uninhabitable due to the use of clay technology, the government will also provide HUF 300 million this year to ensure that the injured continue to have access to an apartment of adequate quality as compensation. I would like to encourage you to look at this in a complex way, since, taking a number out of the opposition, you are trying to argue for your right. We are trying to look at the economic and social development policy of a region, region and government in a complex way, and for this reason I am asking for your support, both in the Ozd region and in the county, and in support of the national budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-12-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. We will continue the debate, following from the group of the MSZP, Mr Imre Horváth. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-05-12-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address social policy issues with regard to the budget. Before that, however, I would like to talk about some of my constituencies, the 80-100 thousand people who live in Újpesten. I am trying to represent their interests in my contribution, and I generally represent the interests of my constituents in all my contributions. I can ask my fellow pro-government Members, when the numbers are spoken here, the positive numbers, do you always think about your constituents? This is a very important issue, regardless of party policy. I'd like to say a few thoughts about Újpest, not the poorest district, not even the richest. 100,000 inhabitants, of which 25 thousand pensioners, thousands of Quaestor-damaged people, thousands of nearly 10 thousand aided people, and several small businesses disappear each week, so 3-4 small businesses disappear each week. What is the situation, I think, of Újpest's social situation, is also proof, not of myself, that in the interim election, the former hospital director, in the campaign, my opponent lost the election. If the Fidesz government is doing everything they can for Újpest, I think this situation will not happen in the election. There were a lot of numbers, and I told you the other day that positive numbers don't affect people. People are not touched by the restructuring, they are not touched by the reform, they are not touched by the construction of stadiums. This budget also has the task of achieving positive effects and efficiency in all areas of life. Here, in the charm of numbers, I have not heard much about this efficiency, either the increase in age or the death of a baby, or the rise in the minimum wage. I've never heard such things. There's a number war going on, although I know the budget's basically supposed to operate with numbers, plan, implement numbers. Turning to the substantive issues, in this draft budget, the government will spend less on the social area next year in terms of GDP and expenditure distribution than it did this year. Social assistance remains largely unchanged, but only a few benefits are increased, but to an unspeakably low degree, while the state will spend more on itself and its leaders next year. [[14.00]] All this, in addition to the rise in the proportion of people living below the minimum, means that the government will give nothing of the growth that can be expected. Hungary is still underperforming in terms of social spending, and even the media is talking about social austerity. The government still does not correct its crimes, anti-poverty, scapegoating and severe austerity in previous years. The next year's budget will also serve to further enrich the rich. While the government is expecting an increase of 3.1 percent next year, the share of expenditure on welfare functions in total public finances will be reduced by 2 percentage points. Several people have already talked about this, but I will say once again that in the middle of the crisis, in 2009, the government spent 17.7 percent of GDP on social policy expenditure at the time, next year it will be only 14 percent; in eight years it has reduced the share of expenditure in the social field by nearly 4 percentage points, while we can see everywhere that Hungary is doing better. While there is a 60 billion increase in pensions, this is partly due to a 0.9 percent increase in pensions, partly from an increase in the number of women who are entitled to 40 years, but the share of GDP spent on pensions is still decreasing. Ladies and gentlemen, There will be a minimum increase in pensions in recent decades. What do you think 0.9 percent is enough for? This means not only the smallest, but also a few hundred forints for those with average pensions. All this will not be humiliating for hundreds of thousands of pensioners living below the minimum living age, as the cost of medicine and housing remains constant. I myself have spoken to a number of stakeholders who say that they would like to send this pension back to the government. As Secretary of State Varga is here, I would also like to say a few sentences on service pensions. The service pensions are gone. There was a government decision to set up an insurance system, but this government decree was repealed in December. Since there are a lot of military active law enforcement workers in my district, they are curious about how their fate will be if they have to leave before retirement for such a service or other reason. The budget of the equity register will not grow by a penny next year. A single allowance of HUF 500 million can be used for pension calculation based on equity and a pension increase of HUF 700 million for next year. As regards social assistance, it is also worth examining separately the change in expenditure on social assistance, which affects the poorest. It can be seen that in two years more than HUF 25 billion will be deducted from the aid budget alone. The municipal framework, which can provide aid on the ground, will be the same amount as this year. The funding for walking aid will be reduced by more than HUF 7 billion next year. We know from earlier statements that the government's goal is to eliminate social assistance and to keep public work only for those who have it and for those who can work, the rest of us have nothing. Next year, the public employment budget will be HUF 15 billion less than if the government ignores the fact that income poverty continues to decline and the proportion of people living below the minimum is now 42 percent. In the area of social and child protection services, it should be pointed out that the support of municipally reserved social institutions will not increase by almost a penny next year if the wage increase is not counted. As regards family allowances, the expenditure of the National Family and Social Policy Fund will continue to be reduced, mainly due to reductions in pre-age benefits, district allowances and family allowances. The visible increase in maternity allowance and childcare care is probably due to the government's increasing birth rate, but the amounts of benefits remain unchanged for the next year, for the ninth year. Expenditure on disabled care continues to decrease, from HUF 323 billion this year to HUF 320 billion. Dear Parliament, On this basis, it can be seen that in Hungary the social care system is still the government's stepchildren, and indeed we can talk about social restrictions. Thank you for listening.
u2016-05-12-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mr János Bencsik. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-12-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The city and the countryside have one destiny, they form a fate and risk community, so there is no chance of successful rural catch-up without the development and modernisation of central cities. Given the development and accessibility of services provided both in terms of employment, i.e. living, access to higher cultural services, and in terms of the availability of healthcare services, it is very important that the services needed for everyday well-being are available in the catchment area of a region, two or three small areas, two or three districts, in relation to the central city at a distance of access, and, on the one hand, in order to successfully catch up with an area or to improve competitiveness. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Attila Móring József in the notary seat.]] That is why I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the programme of modern cities, which has also been included in the budget chapter and has a role to play. The government has allocated HUF 153 billion to carry out these tasks within the 2017 budget. At times, I hear opposition points that the developments included in the programme "Modern Cities" which are agreed by the government with the mayors of the county-righted cities are not justified, serve neither the interests of the inhabitants of the place nor the interests of the region. It is possible that, in the case of an investment, there is a debate on the scale of the investment, quite rightly, but I have not heard much debate about the justification of the investment within the local communities. I would like to outline some examples of my own constituency, so that we can understand the impact of important government-supported development in a city, the service improvements it can bring with it in the everyday life of people living in surrounding settlements. Maybe employment is the most important thing. If there is work, then there is everything, then there is a livelihood, there will be a home, a civil way to live. Yes, but in order to get to work, proper transport conditions are also needed. For this reason, it is particularly important to establish integrated transport nodes in county-righted cities, county-based settlements, which can also be understood and used as a joint meeting point for different modes of transport. [[14.10]] It is important for regional bus transport to be connected to rail transport, which helps to reach further points. It is important that people arriving in passenger cars from the countryside are able to land their cars, in well-guarded, well-cultured parking lots, get on the train and reach their far-reaching destination comfortably and safely, especially in the agglomeration area in the capital, where we all know that getting into the workplaces by car is very bitter, but when you arrive using social transport services, it is much easier, but you have to put your cars down and take the railways in the cities around you. [[István Ikotity takes his place in the notary seat.]] Or, in the same way, those who are trying to approach these Community transport stations by bicycle should also have the right conditions for them. Therefore, it is particularly important, in the centre of my constituency, in Tatabánya, that the long-awaited railway station development be completed. However, it is equally important that the road network near the industrial park be expanded, because the industrial park where tens of thousands of people work and people enter from a multitude of settlements in the area cannot have only one entry and exit, not only from a safety point of view, but also from a fair treatment of workers, because it is not expected to start an hour earlier in a shift change, and to arrive home an hour later only because that single hub cannot provide such a passable speed that workers can go home from work and work under normal, safe conditions. It is therefore particularly important that transport improvements be made through the programme of modern cities, which help all the people in the region, all their employees. Or is access to higher cultural services not also in the interests of people living in the region? Yes, you can. The development of a county library, which is now a knowledge centre, an information centre, is important for everyone. Not only for people living in county seats, but also for people living in smaller towns and small settlements in the area. An information knowledge centre with similar facilities shall not be established in any small settlement. But if this is available in the county seats - and the programme of modern cities will also provide for this in the case of Tatabánya - then those living in the neighbourhood will also benefit from this service. Or is it not important for rural settlements and farmers to sell their manufactured products in normal conditions, attractive modern urban markets and market halls? If we are talking about rural development, a very important aspect of rural development is that products, crops, which are produced and grown, can reach the city. So all of this shows that the city and the countryside have one destiny. There is no separation and greater development in cities is also in the interest of rural people. So I encourage everyone to support the 2017 budget for this reason, so that it can serve good community goals for the majority of HUF 153 billion. I would also like to draw the attention of my fellow Members briefly to a question that few people in this country know about. My fellow Members from Central Transdanubia want no more people to know about this problem, which is due to a geological emergency and has created a disaster situation. My colleague, Mr Károly Kontra, State Secretary, is also involved in this matter. Everyone knows, perhaps from the geography of history and the country's economic history, that in the last hundred years in Central Transdanubia, due to mining, there was a significant need to reduce the level of karst water, because it was then possible to carry out mining activities safely. The water level of this unified aquifer system, the water base, has been lowered to such an extent that the springs in the vicinity of both Pope and Tata have dried up. Tathan more than 40 springs fell asleep, and in the 1950s and 1960s, the former water areas fed with resources were converted into construction sites. Eight thousand people live only in an area fed by intensive sources, because the resources returned once the mining had been completed. Some residential buildings have 500 liters of karst water per minute on the surface, because the three - building building was built in the middle of the old horn. So we can really say that we are talking about a geological hazard, we are talking about a disaster situation, and that is why it is necessary to have a coordinated, government-led, government-led, local government-led, full mapping of the problem with the involvement of the public background institutions. It is no coincidence that the Minister of the Interior has recently taken action to set up an operational committee for Deputy State Secretary Imre Hoffmann. This working committee has also been set up, it has started its operation, but it is necessary to consider and evaluate with integrity the nature of interventions that are needed throughout the field of impact, from Pope to Tata. Along with the assessment of vulnerable infrastructure, the detachment of vulnerable residential buildings, the review of settlement plans, existing settlement plans, and the possibility of the recovery of recurring unbelievable amounts of karst water, which can be beneficial for adaptation to climate change. So we are facing not only damages and emergencies, but also benefits. However, in order for this operational committee to be able to carry out its work satisfactorily, budgetary resources are also needed. Perhaps if we minimise these negative effects in time, we can save more budget expenditure later, so I tabled an amendment that calls for the transfer of some HUF 150 million in order to enable this operational committee to carry out the government task imposed on it in the coming months, in 2017 and to strengthen the security of the wealth and life of citizens living in vulnerable areas by defining the direction of specific, professionally-defined interventions. In this, I will ask for the understanding cooperation of the government, the support of my fellow Members, and I thank you all with respect. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-12-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Károly Kontra will respond to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-12-71	Thank you very much. First of all, I believe that what my fellow Member János Bencsik said is important, and I trust that the efforts made jointly by the government and the representatives and the settlements will result in results, as this is in the public interest. That's what I wanted to stress. I would also like to mention the comments and comments made on the appreciation of professional staff. I would like to say that the new Service Act entered into force on 1 July 2015, which provided for an average salary increase of 30 per cent for professionals. Who's that? The police, firefighters, law enforcement workers, disaster defenders, workers in various services, members of the Parliamentary Guard, soldiers, so we have made this average 30 percent increase for all parts of the professional staff. The purpose of the law was to achieve an average increase of 50 per cent by 2019. According to the promise, the average rate of this in 2016 was available from January, and this increase in salaries in 2017 is included in this bill. I would like to draw attention to this fact that what our government has promised will be fulfilled. Here is evidence that in all areas of professional personnel, police, disaster management, bv, services, the resources of this are fully available in the Prime Minister's chapter. [[14.20]] A critical remark was made about three pillars for the career programme and what is the situation with regard to housing support and savings-based insurance. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the other two pillars of the law enforcement career model, as I said, are in the process of developing housing support and insurance, but until then, this budget bill provides for HUF 1 billion in a draft to cover expenditure related to the improvement of housing conditions for professional staff, and it also provides a source for annuity in relation to the provision of health benefits to professional staff. So I would like to underline that we are keeping our promises in this area as well. I refer to the existence of a career for professional staff at the end of 2001, at the time of the first Orbán government, when we extended a large number of elements of the civil service career to professional stock. Since then, the professional staff has had a good heart to think about this, and as I know, they welcomed the rules on the system of promotion and salaries of the new service law which entered into force on 1 July 2015, the positive effects of which were felt by all professionals. Dear Parliament, What is very important in terms of financing the tasks of the Ministry of Interior in 2017, is that we want to continue to strengthen public order and public security. We always say that in this regard we always have to do more tomorrow than we did today or yesterday. This philosophy is followed by this budget bill. Our proposal, our vision and our specific objective will also be achieved in 2017 to provide the resources for this, both in terms of the number of staff and in terms of recognition and in terms of technical development. I would also like to respond to the fact that it was said earlier in the debate that there is not a policeman in all settlements. I would also like to point out here that police presence is present in all the municipalities of Hungary. The upload of district agents is currently 96.66 percent. We would like to aim for this to be 100 percent, but until then it is everywhere, we can ensure police presence in every Hungarian settlement. I would like to draw attention to the important fact that the police are carrying out this so-called normal system of tasks by making enormous efforts to protect the southern border, bringing together the defence and settlements. We all know that the migration crisis has unfortunately not stopped, the migratory pressure is present. The budget will also provide resources for the proper removal of this and for the proper response, strengthening the southern border, in respect of 17 resources. I would like to point out that, in the first months of 2016, the number of irregular migrants at the southern border increased significantly, especially at the Serbian border. In response, the government provides HUF 9.3 billion for the physical reinforcement of the southern border. Here, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that next week the bill will be presented to Parliament, which will allow the police to bring the illegal migrant back to the border within 8 kilometres of the border line and allow him to apply for asylum in the transit zone, provided, of course, if he has not committed a crime. But I do not want to go into this in detail, because this is not the subject of the budget, but the bill for next week. But I wanted to stress that this is linked to our efforts to protect Hungary, to protect Hungarian people and to guarantee our security. Dear Parliament, Therefore, strengthening public security, protecting the southern border, strengthening staff, these are all objectives, important objectives that are in the interests of all of us, and for which the bill of 2017 has sufficient resources. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-12-72	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A proper speech will come from the Jobbik Group, Mr Tibor Bana. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-12-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to split my budget speech into two parts. In the first half, I would like to talk about the use of EU funds and what Jobbik's group thinks about this, looking back on the previous cycle and looking at the current seven-year period 2014-2020; in the second part, I would like to talk about my proposals for amending the budget for my narrower country, Vas county, especially the proposals for the Körmend-centred constituency. I would therefore like to start with the question of EU development. I think that when we talk about this issue, it is certainly worth going back in time, before the period 2007-2013, when the socialist-free Democrat government at the time set very sound targets for economic growth and employment. In particular, two commitments were made in 2006. One was to increase the added value of businesses by 10 percent by 2015, while the other was to increase the number of employees outside the public sector by 4 percent. I will return to what has been achieved from this. But what is worth saying is that if we still appreciate earlier times, then the government of that time has created a system of distribution institutions under direct political influence. We could talk about decision-making on a political basis during that period, and this was reflected in the case of large investments. However, we have also seen that there were faithful municipalities that could benefit primarily from resources and developments, and this has resulted in investments that are in many cases completely meaningless, independent of economic rationality, of actual development needs. These visual developments did not serve the original goals I referred to. Thus, many waited in 2010 for the new government's measures, and Fidesz made very serious promises. Compared to this, we have seen that there has been no accountability, no scandalous cases have been discovered, and no sound passwords for the revision of subsidies have been made. At the same time, the tender was practically suspended for a year on the basis of the reasons given, and there were unthinkable changes. To sum up, it can therefore be said that you, my fellow Members of the Fidesz-KDNP, respected government actors, continued where the socialists left off and continued to act as a hotbed for corruption, and that the area of EU development works. The anomalies in relation to grants have not ceased, and prestige investments, pointless projects such as the small railway station in Felcsút remain at the centre. In the second half of the previous cycle, the distributions and facial toaster overpriced have reached amazing proportions and, unfortunately, these trends will continue in the current period 2014-2020. It must be seen that the two main objectives originally set, namely the 10% increase and the 4% increase in employment in the competitive sector, have not been achieved, but have been taken in the opposite direction in recent years. What am I thinking? The current government has stated, for the current seven-year budgetary period, that we want to spend 60% of the money at our disposal on economic development. This is a very good and ambitious commitment that can be supported, could be done, but it does not matter how it is done in practice. Professor Attila Chikán recalls that corruption slows growth. Yes, this statement is supported by countless studies, and it does not matter at all who has the resources available. Unfortunately, over the past few years, we have had to experience, since the Fidesz has been on the government, that there has been a narrow circle of friends that has benefited primarily from these developments, and it seems that this will continue in this cycle as well. [[14.30]] Where economic operators need predictability and predictability. Jobbik's firm position is that job-creating, economic recovery investments should be put first over visual investment and prestige investments. The R &amp; D area should play a greater role and support small and medium-sized enterprises. But it should also be noted that what we mean by SMEs does not matter at all. The European Union definition and the Hungarian definition are different. The government's position on this matter should therefore also be clarified, and small and medium-sized enterprises should indeed benefit from the resources, in such a way as to give priority to innovative companies. After all, it is clear from impact assessments and research that such companies can contribute more to economic growth. It would also be extremely important for education and health to receive a greater share of the budget. Unfortunately, we can't see that next year either. Overall, Jobbik considers that we should go in that direction, and we can do so if we are given sufficient authority by voters to really focus on national interests and the aim of boosting the economy. And if in 2018 we are authorised by the voters to take over the country's governance, then we will abolish the in-house system that Fidesz has been operating in Hungary since 2010. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to, as I have indicated, move to the Vas County, in particular to present my amendments to the budget which concern the neighbourhood of Körmend. Of course, I cannot talk about all of them, I have tabled 36 such proposals, and given the scarcity of time, I can give only a few examples. However, I try to focus on one or two major developments in each settlement, in each region. I'd like to start with the case of the renovation of the Körmend cinema, which is extremely important. Just because movies have a very significant history in the Batthyányak city. That is why, like our city, Szentgotthárd, it would be necessary to have a film theatre in my hometown, Körmend. Recently, István Bebes, the mayor of our city's pro-government, said that the re-launch of the film genre in the city is a strategic issue. So I submitted my proposal accordingly, asking for a grant of HUF 350 million for this purpose. It would be at least HUF 300 million in this case, and there is not enough self-esteem in Körmend to make this possible, which is why I am asking for the government's support for this important issue. I have also tabled a number of amendments on the basis of discussions with Mayor of Csákánydoroszló, including the opening of the nursery, the importance of building the dam system, and a proposal to set up a gym in primary school. This would be extremely important, since the introduction of daily physical education is right and welcome, and only then should adequate infrastructure be provided. Unfortunately, in the case of Csákánydoroszló, we can also see it, but I could also take cities as an example, such as the city of Szentgotthárd, where I live, where not all primary schools have the necessary conditions. I'm referring to the primary school of János Arany. I would also bring here a gastronomic settlement, where there is a better management, and fortunately thanks to Mr. Mayor Szabolcs Nagy, there have been serious improvements in the past period. However, it would be important to develop a community space and a sports locker. I've tabled motions in this direction. I'd like to bring the village of Gérce here, and there's more signals coming from there. The most important of these is perhaps the construction of the sewer network, which is not only a problem to be solved in the settlement, but also in countless small settlements in Vas county. It can be said that from the Slovenian Rába region through Magyarnádalya to the neighbourhood of Jánosháza there are many villages still waiting for this question to be resolved. So this should be dealt with in substance by the government. And I would like to refer to the renewal of the road linking the settlement with Sitke, which I would like to urge. In connection with Kőszeg, Tamás Sneider and my group partner submitted two amendments after consulting our Head of the General Assembly of Kálmán Rába, who is also a municipal representative in Kőszeg. One refers to the construction of the rescue station and the other to the construction of a new public cemetery. Both cases were recently discussed at the board meetings in Kőszeg, and it would be important for the people of Kőszeg to hear, but not only the voices of the people of Kőszeg, but also the voices of the people in the area from the government. For example, in relation to the rescue station, we have brought this up several times here in plenary, either on the health debate day or in other genres of Parliament. So it would be good to finally take meaningful steps in these matters. I'd like to give you a few more examples from the village of Molnaszecsőd. I have consulted Mayor Tamás Szombathelyi here, and so I have submitted the motions that can be found on the parliamentary side. One of them relates to the renovation of the cultural house. One of them is proposing the renovation of the kindergarten building. And I would also like to highlight the renewal of the community space, even because in a few weeks, between 10 and 12 June, a weekend, Friday to Sunday, the second traditional Rába celebration will take place in the settlement. This year, of course, will take place under the circumstances so far, but it would be very good if this community space could be renewed next year, as it attracted hundreds of people last year too. I am sure that more people will come to these traditional programs this year, round table discussion, concerts and various family programs. So with this in mind, I have tabled a proposal on this matter. And as I have already pointed out, I have also tabled a number of budget amendments to my city of Szentgotthárd, one of which concerns the construction of a new gymnasium at the Arany János Elementary School, but it would also be necessary to replace the roof. And I'm not talking home here, though I went to this elementary school myself. But recently, within the framework of the real national consultation, Gábor Lábodi and our local government representative, who is also a county assembly representative, visited the institution, and indeed we have seen that conditions are much worse now than they were at the time. These developments will not be delayed, so I would ask that these proposals be considered, just as they do with regard to the internal restoration of the Baroque church. And here I would like to refer back to the fact that, in 2010, the amendment that I tabled was adopted here in the Parliament, and as a result, the substantial renovation of the third largest Baroque church in the country started. Fortunately, a few weeks ago, Ms Erika Kissné Köles, Slovenian ethnic advocate and State Secretary Miklós Soltész announced that HUF 50 million would arrive for this purpose, and in the coming years there was a promise that additional funds would be available. Nevertheless, I submitted the smaller aid application for HUF 100 million and the larger amount for HUF 250 million because the total restoration would definitely require such an order of magnitude. So I would ask you to support these, and, of course, from a government side, this annual amount of about HUF 50 million could be added to this, and I think that then the Catholic believers in Szentgotthárd and the whole community would be happy to do so. It is a symbol of the city, I say, as a Reformed Presbyter. And while I am at it, I would also like to lobby for the construction of the congregation center, for the construction of the Reformed Congregation Center, which is necessary because the Reformed Church in Szentgotthárd is fortunate, but this can also be said of our Lutheran brothers, who are very active in the life of the city, organizing cultural events, waiting for the interested ones with diverse programs. However, there should be sufficient space to do so, which would be given the opportunity to do so by this particular congregation centre, which is under development of the necessary plans. Last but not least, I would like to point out that it is absolutely necessary to start work on the bypass section of Highway 8 in Szentgotthárd-Jakabháza and Körmend. Just because this is a very long-standing issue, and Prime Minister Körmenden has been promised several times that the main road 8 will be developed into a motorway. Things are very bumpy, but what's most important is actually the construction of these two bypasses. In the case of the city of Körmend, we can experience an unbearable transit of trucks, but the situation is similar for the part of Szentgotthárd and Jakaháza, and in order to prevent the risk of accidents and to improve the living conditions of the locals, it would be important to start the necessary work as soon as possible. Thank you very much for your attention. [[14.40]]
u2016-05-12-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. There are two-minute speeches coming up. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát asked for the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-12-75	Mr President, Dear House, With regard to the VAT amendments that have been mentioned earlier, I would like to note that the highest VAT rate for food in Hungary remains the highest in the European Union, 27 percent. But we must add that the reduced VAT rate is also the highest in Hungary among the countries concerned, i.e. 18%. In Romania, too, the reduced VAT rate was extended to all foods. From 2016 onwards, the general key can also be treated as 20 percent. And we must also say that it would be justified to reduce the total range of basic foods to 5% and to reduce the VAT content of child rearing products to 5%. On the one hand, this would also be an important step in order to whiteen the economy and reduce black trade, but it would be a tangible relief for Hungarian families, and there would be a reserve in the budget for this. And we also see that even in the country called Slovakia, they were able to reduce the VAT on several basic foods to 10 percent. And if we look around, Romania later introduced nine percent VAT on different types of food. Therefore, we do not see why the Hungarian government's courage only covers the VAT reduction in a manner that affects 6-7 percent of the average family's consumer basket, since, taking into account this reduction in the form of cosmetic VAT, we find that it is only worth a half- or three-quarters percent discount, because it does not allow a reduction of 1 percentage point in terms of the average family's consumer basket. We therefore call on you to achieve a full-scale VAT reduction by reducing the VAT content of all essential consumer goods, food and child-rearing articles, at the expense of various ministerial reserves, real-life operating expenses, moving to the Castle and other items that may be transferable or partially transferred. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-05-12-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. A proper speech will come from the Fidesz Group, Ms Ágnes Molnár. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-05-12-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, When we look at the most important features of next year's budget, we can see that we are talking primarily about the budget for tax cuts, home creation and predictability. However, let me highlight specifically the budget for the health sector, because thanks to well-functioning reforms, our economic policy, the additional resource of nearly HUF 200 billion is a serious, additional opportunity for health. However, some important facts need to be established before these are made. The first fact is that, before 2010, socialist governments removed significant resources from health care; after 2010, we see additional resources growing year after year. Another important fact is that between 2002 and 2010 additional resources were also available in the sector in individual areas, most of which were debt-based debt-based measures, while after 2010 there was provision of surpluses that were based on real resources. Thus, additional resources and real-based surplus resources have marked government policy over the past six years. I would like to remind you that between 2002 and 2010, the Health Insurance Fund, with the exception of two years, closed with a negative balance, and for three consecutive years the deficit exceeded HUF 300 billion. The total E Fund deficit of 2002-2006 amounted to HUF 1226 billion. This is nearly HUF 2,000 billion at today's price. [[Lajos Korózs: Or three...]] This is as high as the full one-year Hungarian health budget. A 50 percent wage increase in 2002, which was not covered, also contributed to the huge deficit. As a result, due, among other things, to their irresponsible management, the general government deficit has fallen to a historic low in 2006 and reached 9.4 percent, which is an unimaginably high figure. Today, however, we have a budget that is predictable, solid and not financed by loans. In conclusion, the former Socialist Government could not and did not want to face health problems. Between 2002 and 2010, there was a drifting, helpless health government. After 2010, the problems were faced and real steps were taken. With conscious planning, based on real resources, we went along with real concepts and continue to move forward. In line with the priorities of the Semmelweis Plan, the Healthcare Sector Strategy (Efficient Hungary 2014-2020) has identified the introduction of the basic health care system on a new basis, the management of human resource problems, the transformation of the care system with a focus on public health, and the improvement of drug and patient safety as an important goal. It is pleased that, in addition to the effective measures taken so far, the government will also provide significant additional resources for these areas in the next year's budget. This is also important because it shows the continuous work that can be done to achieve these defined objectives and to allocate extra money to them. If you look at the most important additional resources in the period after 2010, you can see that we have spent HUF 500 billion on institutional developments that have never been seen in the EU, EUR 300 billion on wage increases, and HUF 200 billion on hospital consolidation and operating extra support. This means that the government has provided the health sector with a surplus of more than HUF 1000 billion with only the largest items, and the significant increases in 2017 are not yet included. If we compare the most important health budget figures in recent years with the figures of the new draft budget, we can see very serious progress. Within the Health Insurance Fund, one of the most important and largest is the cash register of medical-preventive benefits. This includes general medical care, protective care, rescue, support for clinics and hospitals. For curative-preventive benefits, i.e. directly to patient care, there is 282 billion HUF more money compared to 2010. While, in real terms, between 2004 and 2010, there was a 14-percent decrease in the same care system, compared to the planned health budget for 2010, there is now almost 20 percent more money for this purpose in real terms. It is of the utmost importance for patients to have close-up care at their disposal and to have it at their disposal at an appropriate level. This is why the series of measures that we were able to start after 2010 to strengthen the financing of the basic supply was very important. Today, there is 44 percent more money for basic care, including GP and women's funding than in 2010. This is thanks to the planned renewal of the basic supply, each year with significant additional resources. If we look at the general practitioners in this regard, this increase is even greater, as we spend more than one and a half times as much on GP funding as we did in 2010. The third phase of the renewal of the primary care and the development of public health now have another HUF 4.5 billion in the next year's budget, and this is added to the HUF 500 million surplus, which means a doubling of the general medical establishment grant. In real terms, there is 15 percent more money to save than in 2010. This is nearly 30 billion, which is added to more than HUF 10 billion in EU development. [[14.50]] Since 2010, 467 new ambulances have been purchased, 27 new rescue stations have been built and 85 additional rescue stations have been renewed. It is also very welcome that, as in the years after 2010, in line with the Semmelweis plan and the objectives set out in the sectoral strategy, it will also be possible to make progress in health next year. Significant additional resources also provide a significant opportunity to further increase the salaries of doctors and nurses, as we cannot forget that the most important component of our health system is the sacrifice of our doctors and nurses working in the system. We therefore need to create conditions for them to reduce migration, i.e. the job of the migrant worker, in which we have achieved significant results in the last years. In 2012 and 2013, we have already managed to secure an average wage increase of 27 per cent in two steps, our young doctors receive scholarships, and so-called frozen mobile wages have also been released. I would like to emphasise once again that these wage developments and wage increases were based on real extra resources. A series of serious, intensive negotiations have now begun between the organisations of the health profession and the government in order to agree on a multi-stage wage increase in the medium to long term. These negotiations are in an advanced state, a HUF 180 billion item is provided separately in the budget. This is a significant amount of money from which, according to the outcome of the negotiations, we can also spend a significant amount on health wage increases. It would also be a pleasure that, once the negotiations have been concluded, the process of raising wages could start this year, since together with this, both doctors and nurses, we would be able to ensure a stable and predictable pay gap as soon as possible. Dear House, In addition, I would also like to mention that next year there will be a significant improvement in the pharmaceutical support system with HUF 24.9 billion; the funding of medical aid will be HUF 4.8 billion more than this year, and we will be able to continue the residency scholarship programme, with an additional HUF 2 billion in the EUR 5 billion programme so far, as a result of which we can encourage our young doctors to stay home. A further HUF 500 million will be available for the introduction of the medical institution of the Collegiate Professional Manager, which is an important element of strengthening the basic care. So we can say that the conscious planning, strategy based on real resources, can provide significant growth, we can count on, in terms of health care and healing in the 2017 budget, and as a result we can achieve system stability, which will also allow doctors and nurses working in it to take a step forward. On this basis, I would ask our fellow Members to support the budget and thank all Members for their attention. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-12-78	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Ms Agnes Kunhalmi. You have the floor, please.
u2016-05-12-79	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As I listened to the doctor here, Dr. Ágnes Molnár, I practically thought that health care was a success story, but, you know, Rózsa Hoffmann said this last time to KLIK; I would only warn her before she got into the health situation. You know, one of my fellow Members here said that Fidesz continued where the MSZP left off in 2010. Well, then I can say that I wish he had at least continued there, because, after the change of regime, the right- and left-wing governments in Hungary, someone better, someone less, both of us both won and lost elections, but we went in one direction, and yet the goal was to create a normal, independent and independent civil Hungary, the independent economic elite, the independent, trained in competition, finally out of the coercion of socialism. The image of the civil society who are equal before the law... [[Márius Révész intervenes.]] - I know that the first yell is always the word "citizen" because it really hurts for you that you were the one who pushed Hungary off the road the most. Unfortunately, you have strayed from this path very hard. After 2010, all that has happened in Hungary is that you have lived up to the country's last reserves - just to give an example, such as our private pension funds - and they are constantly basing their budgets on a huge number of one-off, momentary tax revenues each year, plus EU funds. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I have a question, and this is the real question of the country, because we can argue here year after year on the budget, we can push relationships to each other's heads, for example, we can be blamed for the fact that the MSZP was responsible for the global economic crisis, but believe me, we watched as a tragedy, a country watched how a world crisis would eat its efforts after a change of regime between right and left governments. You are not authorized to make any more trouble, and after six years of your time, the question has come up - there will be eight years of your time, I would just like to say - what will happen in Hungary after 2020, what will happen when the European Union funds will not come. This is a real question for Hungary, and the 2017 budget does not really explain this question, nor does it even make me sad that I do not see those investments in education, for example - despite the fact that you are now replacing the debts you have accumulated - I do not see the investment in human capital, those university students, elementary schoolchildren, today's kindergartens in the budget that could underpin Hungary's next 10-15 years, but in any case our post-2020 world. I would like to point out that the problem is not with the civil servants who wrote this, but with the right-wing political elite who has very poor priorities in Hungary. The performance of the Hungarian industry and the Hungarian economy is decided today in the classrooms. The Hungarian economy, the future of the Hungarian industry, decides what knowledge and abilities children acquire today, saving on this is a sin. We all know, and here I have just looked at my colleague, the representatives of the German Chamber of Industry have made it clear that beyond the predictability of a country, beyond the level of corruption, they take into account not only the university sphere and education in general, but also the quality of primary education when they think about the future of a country to invest or not invest there. Elementary training also determines the success of vocational training and later the success of higher education. Now, for the past six years, as I've mentioned, the KLIK has collapsed as a true success story, and what you've made up of has collapsed, and you've admitted it. Although I do not know whether there is a CLIK or there is no CLIK, there is a CLIK or there is 57 CLIK, I do not know, I only see one thing: it remains the centralized logic and the overcentralization that was last in socialism and not even there. If this type of planning economy were to work, gentlemen and ladies, honourable government representatives, it would still be socialism in Hungary, but thank God, there is no, and I very much hope that Fidesz will not recreate this in Hungary. [[15.00]] Today we see that those who should build Hungary for the future should take this country to 2030-2035, mostly abroad, producing GDP in Vienna, Berlin and Prague, and it is not true that everyone has gone out to do the dishes, but with Hungarian diplomas, the diplomas of the educational system that you have called bankrupt are increasing the GDP, industry and economy of other countries abroad. Education is now completely ripped to bits, at virtually every level, there's a difference between something a little better, something a little less. And the third thing you've done in the last five or six years is stealing. Attila Chikán said well that if corruption is reduced, the performance of the economy will be improved, and András Lánczi, who is now acting as a rector, said that the essence of Fidesz's policy is practically corruption. I find it very embarrassing that the contracts of the Századvég 4 billionaires will be signed with the same hand as the current coal break at Corvinus University, because before your period, we learned again what a coal break in the university sphere is. In recent years, virtually after 2010, it was easy to keep certain budget and deficit targets tight when 3-4 million poor people were squeezed out of the system. They took away a lot of benefits, they got kicked out of the pension system, they could be classified, we told them every year, so it was easy. The problem has just arrived, and I would like to draw the attention of the right-wingers. You started cutting the middle class stone hard. That's when they went out on the street to mark. Fidesz policy has reached the middle class on which it bases its political base and voters. That's the point, and that's the big battle situation, and you're gonna have to deal with it now, after six years of government. Health care, I know, is a success story, as my dear Agnes said, but what we see is that hospitals are rotting, and everyone is giving us so much gratuity money that they can't fill the pockets of the doctors who stayed home, otherwise they won't get proper care, at least in this country the amount of gratuity money has never been so high. You have practically made it to paying health care, and for 300 forints a year, this country has been pissed off by the fact that everyone needs state-funded central health care and normal basic care. Yeah, but here's the next problem. After health care, we got paid public education. Parents buy special lessons for their children to an unprecedented extent, because until the political elite understands that in a uniformized and centralised public education system, children do not receive the knowledge they need in a modern industry, in a globalised world, in a modern economy, they have started to pay and buy outside the school system, outside the school system, the knowledge they should receive in the public school system. Today, mothers and fathers, regardless of ideology, buy not only language lessons and IT training for their children, but also math, literature, and history. You don't have someone in your family who doesn't have a presence, or someone who doesn't practice that in your environment. Furthermore, from this public school system, parents began to rescue their children. Of course, if you had a place to go, because foundation schools are being handled quite step-by-step, but they'd rather have their kids out in a pay-ass private school than keep them in this derelict and derelict public education. These facts, these numbers. These are processes that have started in Hungary that we see. [[Márius Révész: Give me a number!]] I know you scream when you can't deny it. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] You know, you guys say that free meals and free textbooks actually help this middle class. Please, there have never been so many poor people in Hungary since the change of regime that you have produced. Specifically, the KSH data should be modified, and they can no longer be twisted and twisted in such a way as to fit into a normal number frame. I wouldn't be proud of that. I would hide under my own chair or under the velvet chair. They built a design economy, like the Klebelsberg Institutional Center, which doesn't work. A narrow elite is kistafírung, the state's assets are being redistributed, and in a state capitalist system they are handing over to their own elite the assets of culture, the economy, the wealth of the state. Only here will be the third major problem, and I would like to point out that this elite can only function as long as there are political elites who shape the laws in the economy to make it work. Under normal conditions of competition, these people will not be able to undertake and will not be able to carry out normal production activities. It's the biggest downside of state capitalism, by the way. I just wanted to draw your attention to this. Independence, which would be necessary for the realisation of a civic idea and for the development of a civil Hungary, is autonomy, respect for private property, trades, lands, I could tell you, or the expansion of the textbook market or, for example, some restaurants in Budapest, but I could tell you a number of things, such as equality before the law, where everyone is not protected by a major prosecutor. So if you would respect this, you could build a much better Hungary, a much better civil Hungary instead of the stupid, distorted system and unsustainable system you have been doing in recent years. But let's move on to my narrower field of education. If you ask yourself that question, my fellow members of the Government, I would rather ask you: would you have your own children enrolled in the school you have done in the last five or six years? [[Dr. Vas Imre: They go there! Interviews in the ranks of Fidesz. The president's ringing the bell.]] Fewer and fewer of you, I understand. The problem is, the whole structure they built was built on a massive lie. You said that the municipal reservation and quite simply the public education system before 2010 went bankrupt. That's not true. [[Dr. Vas Imre: That's right, MSZP has bankrupted him!]] About right-wing and left-wing governments spent more than 700 billion on public education before 2010 and in addition, there was also a resource added by local authorities. If what Prime Minister said is true is that he has gone bankrupt, then start his administration by taking almost 200 billion out of this 700, and practically at the moment of the establishment of the Klebelsberg Institutional Support Centre, the budget for total nationalised education has fallen below 500 billion, so I'm about to start government by taking 200 billion out of that 700, that's the cheetah of government, to put it mildly. So that's not true. In fact, my sad news is that in 2013 the expenditure on GDP fell below 4 percent, to 3.9 percent, which is very, very, very little money. In fact, in recent years, you have been trying to make up for what was first taken away, and you have not expected to have built a bad system and a nationalised structure that constantly recreates and recreates the debt of the entire education. KLIK has become practically a debt-generating machine. That extra resource, not exactly 100 billion, I'm just saying the branch of what we see in the 2017 budget, that's basically the debt... the hole in the budget is the replacement of it. What happened? They had underdesigned the KLIK budget, they didn't count on what the municipalities had put in, it was hard to predict for anyone, but they did put in hundreds of billions of local governments, much more than anyone would have expected. [[15.10]] Basically, for the last five or six years, the teacher's wages you've raised have barely gone through the resources you've provided. Last year, they were faced with specific payment problems and everything else became virtually debt-producing. I'm going to get to it, but for example, there are no sources in the budget of disassembling or converting the KLIK, and if you want to convert something, you know that very well, because you've already experienced it at KLIK. You don't see the source of the 500 schools in the system with the full nationalization, either, but I'm gonna talk about it in a minute. Basically, you should understand that if you put three times more money into this system, it's still gonna go wrong, you're screwing yourself around all the time, totally. On the one hand, they raised a lot of problems that the state should not see, because they should trust local governments, local faculty and schools to solve daily problems and problems. On the other hand, the structure is a debt producer. They've already admitted that they wanted to plow the KLIK, and now they don't, or I don't know. It should also be a warning to you that despite the central appointment of hand-operated directors, despite the fact that there are many party soldiers, Fidesz member district leaders or district commissioners, political loyalty is simply not important in a bad system. In a system of education, professional competence, the provision of adequate tools and money, as well as the critical amount of freedom for teachers and institutional leaders to work are important. I know that you have used the system of education as a power policy and use it only because it has reached the middle class that should vote for you, of whom, unfortunately for you, there are fewer and fewer. They realized that it was not normal for me to vote for Fidesz, but now I have to fund math in a special class, so what kind of educational system they have made for us; because unfortunately, they are related, and you know it very well. The state's a bad farmer. Municipal alliances are shouting that now full nationalization will create even worse situations. For the thirtieth of all these hundreds of schools that the capitalized municipalities can now run and maintain. Now there are many schools still at the level, but unfortunately, local government associations are afraid, rightfully, as soon as the state takes over these schools, we will unfortunately see and experience year after year demise. Money is important, but not sufficient. If there is not enough money in one system, it will lead to very harsh and straight-up quality, but the surplus does not automatically mean an increase in quality. So if you expect to make up for the years you've been married and this will lead to a rise in standards, then you're very wrong. That would require a change of perspective. When I say and the socialists tell you that you cannot go back to the fragmented municipal structure, but yet the municipal logic must be enforced, we recommend the logic of self-government, self-government, to your attention. Here, the decision-makers are close to those who use the services, and it is decided by politicians and representatives of local governments who are available and accountable. The state only provides the framework. It may be a little more central than it used to be, but what you guys did was on the other side of the horse. However, such a nationalised and centralised system cannot be established without almost all autonomy and independence being taken away. You said after 2010 that you were nationalized because there were very many schools with poor standards. Yes, but with this over-centralization, the quality will be very low, but we will only see this when the next PISA results come in. Although the elite on the right now also says that, indeed, there are big problems with the education system here, so it also reached the threshold of the loyal right-wing ones that there is a very big problem here. A research and survey that has now come to light has clearly demonstrated that raising the expenditure on education to the 2008 level - to the 2008 level - would increase the average earnings in Hungary by 14 percent in the long term. But that's the least I can do. So if this had already happened, it would be normal, or it would mean a lot to Hungary. In essence, if I look at the 2017 budget, all the public education money spent by the state, with a 5% inflation rate - I would just like to say that they can follow - then I have to conclude that the planned costs for public education in 2017 are below the 2010 budget, increased by inflation since then, and increased by the amounts spent on wage increases. And that's where it comes in, I have to say that the hundreds of billions of forints invested in it by the municipalities are not in the system. We're just talking about the budget, and here, I'm telling you, we added everything together and we only added up in 2010 what we did in 2017 - fairly. Finally, I have two more points to make. They want to take over 500 schools. I counted ten million forints per school, which carries maintenance, but unfortunately I received many e-mails from the municipal associations that it would be better, Agnes, with 15 million. We took into consideration a school, a small town school. Between 50 and 70 billion are the amounts that should appear in the budget in full nationalisation, so that schools that they take over can be maintained afterwards. It's not in the budget - okay. Gábor Pölöskei said on the news the other day that he wasn't in it, he didn't see it. You see the restoration of the debt generated by the KLIK, but you don't see the extra money. I don't see how the creation of 57 management centers is going to happen. 'Cause if it's gonna happen like the creation of the KLIK by taking the curtains, the benches, the computers, when the KLIK was created, and now it's gonna be done 57 times, they're gonna take it away from these schools again. [[Márius Révész: Where is this? Tell me about it.]] It'll be very, very unpleasant. But if you provide resources for transformation in the budget, everyone will be very happy. [[Dr. Vas Imre: You should tell the truth!]] My colleagues behind my back say that the time is up, and I don't want to drag it out, because they have to talk, too, and there's a lot to talk about, but I can tell you this: what you did with public education, vocational training and higher education is a very sad and poor picture of Hungary. If you do not make money today wisely and at the same time do not change structure and approach, do not get carried away with money, because the change of attitude is at least as important, then this country will never become a civil Hungary if this word means anything to you at all. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-12-80	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to inform you that only the group has a time frame, and the speaker does not. The time frame of the speaker shall be the time frame of the faction. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: That's enough! Thank you, Mr. President.]] State Secretary Péter Benő Banai asked for the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-12-81	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In the foregoing, I think that Mrs Agnes Kunhalmi has made some statements and opinions that can be debated. Allow me to draw attention to these processes, where, I think, a different value judgement on economic policy and budgetary processes can be given. One of her claims was that the 2017 budget is based on an economic policy that does not provide lasting growth. One claim was that the taxes available for a period of time to hours are those which stabilise the budget and only EU funds bring economic growth to a positive range or to a meaningful level. [[15.20]] As far as the tax system is concerned, I believe that there is now a tax structure that, not only according to the government, not only according to the State Audit Office and the Budget Council, which has adopted a budget proposal, but also according to national and international analytical institutions, provides sound revenues to the budget so that we can meet the EU criteria. I have mentioned it many times, but I must recall again the public analyses of the OECD or the European Commission, according to which the tax structure that characterizes the Hungarian budget will continue to provide the necessary revenue for public expenditure in the coming years. And if growth were driven only by EU funds, I would ask what Greece would be, which is one of the most important beneficiaries of EU funding. Or, after 2004, why we did not see a significant real convergence to the European Union average in terms of Hungarian growth, when, after our accession, significant EU resources became available for Hungary. I therefore believe that European Union aid is a significant but not exclusive component of economic growth. The two examples mentioned, the past of Hungary and the current processes, such as Greece, but I could mention Portugal or Spain, who are significant net beneficiaries, show that the quality of economic policy has a fundamental impact on economic growth. I therefore think that the figures so far, the very positive growth figures, after 2013, rightly say to us that it is realistic to plan with an economic growth of around 3 per cent from 2017 onwards. The government has done in the past that it has created the marginal conditions for this economic growth with measures that were novel. We have often said that we should look to Europe; after the economic crisis you mentioned, 17 EU Member States have either reduced the wages or numbers of the public sector or both. This is not what Hungary did, and, as Congresswoman Ágnes Molnár has already said, and confirmed her claims in precise numbers, a wage increase took place in 2012. The first reason why I mention the wage increase in health care and the wage increase in public education is because, in addition to creating conditions for growth, economic growth, if you like, in order to improve it in the short term, immediately, the government has paid attention to investing in human capital, which is essential for longer-term growth. This is why it has launched wage increases in health care and public education, so that there is more suction and demand impact in these areas, as many people want to work in these sectors. Of course, it can be said that this wage increase has been limited, but I say that in recent years this wage increase has been in line with the burden-bearing capacity of the economy, and if we look at the economic processes of the past years and compare the Hungarian measures with those of some European Union countries, Hungary has chosen the opposite path by raising wages. Public education, health care. It was also said by Jobbik that the surplus is not very visible. Once again, I have to say that after the additional sources of education and health in the years 2012 and 13 and later, the 2017 budget bill proposes an extra HUF 270 billion in educational areas and proposes a surplus of HUF 167 billion in health care. Let us then look at these two areas of human capital, which really determines economic growth in the longer term. In education, in addition to providing additional resources for the State and wishing to do so in 2017, a very significant structural change took place. There is no doubt that this is not a simple process, a long process, and we still have work to do, for example, with regard to the transformation of the system of public education institutions, but I think it must be acknowledged that there has been a transformation, taking into account the aspects that define the longer term growth that you have mentioned in both public education and higher education, in order to ensure that students have real knowledge of both public education and higher education. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: That didn't work!]] Develop dual vocational training in public education and strengthen corporate cooperation in higher education. I don't think it's self-serving for a student to have a degree. The goal is to have useful knowledge, knowledge that can make a living. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Yes, that's good.]] This is the goal the government has set and has taken over the best practices. It may be said that the German dual vocational training system is not good, but please look at the German experience. If it works well there, I think that it can also work well in Hungary, in this direction the government has gone. Let us look at the same in the area of higher education, and I ask that we ask the economic players if the changes to the education system are going in the right direction. As far as health is concerned, Ms Molnár, Commissioner, once again mentioned facts about the additional benefits that the government has provided in the area of health after 2010. There was no nominal withdrawal. She is right in that there are years when expenditure-to-GDP cuts from one year to another, but this was not because the State would have drawn funds, but because GDP has increased more than the amount of public expenditure. Madam Member, she mentioned 2014, and I would recall that in 2014, Hungarian GDP increased by 3.7 percent in real terms. The rate of GDP growth was higher than in many areas of additional expenditure. In the case of health care, I must also say that it is worth looking at health processes from a broader perspective. In addition to the steps that have been taken so far and the action that is undoubtedly ahead of us, if we have a slightly broader understanding of what the purpose of the health system is, I think we can say that the primary objective is the existence of a healthy population. The health system needs to heal patients, and I think it's best to be healthier. I think that the government has also done a lot by introducing everyday physical education, lifestyle-forming programs and additional resources for them in order to be a healthy society. As regards the transformation of the CLIK, I have to say that the HUF 105 billion surplus mentioned by the congresswoman provides the operational and investment resources of the KLIK surplus. It is true that the bill includes the organisation on a piece of appropriations, but I must stress that if Parliament approves the budget bill, then within the framework of the budget bill, within the framework of the budget bill, the government has the right and responsibility to reform the institutional system as part of the implementation of the budget. You can do this on your own authority, I stress, within the framework that Parliament determines. There is a structural resource for organisational changes in each budget that involve additional expenditure. These expenses are included in the provisions under the Public Finance Act. Finally, let me talk about whether or not there are paying services in the field of public education and health, and how they relate to the growth or reduction of poverty. Congresswoman also mentioned that next year in public education the number of free textbooks will increase again by one year. I think that the government has taken steps to finance the textbook or children's meals to reduce the burden of the most vulnerable social groups. If I look at next year's budget bill from this point of view, I think it contains rather steps that will help catch up rather than strengthen the gap. Let's take a look at the VAT cuts. [[Lajos Korózs intervenes.]] Mr President, let us look at the concrete measures, let us look at the VAT reduction, and let us look at the consumption structure of the lower incomes in the consumer basket. But in addition to VAT, I could say the cost of the overhead, you know exactly what weight these items represent in the consumer basket for the said layers. [[15.30]] I claim that the government's proposal for 2017 and many of the steps taken in recent years ensure that the poorer layers mentioned by you can catch up. In this direction, the draft budget for next year will also be proposed. In addition to inflation, I think we do not have to calculate a value of around 5%, so any measure that concerns additional expenditure or tax reductions can preserve its real value. I therefore call for these positive aspects of the budget bill to be taken into account when making their decision. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-12-82	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Attila Móring, Member of the KDNP Group, the notary of the Parliament, asked for the floor. Here you go, notary.
u2016-05-12-83	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to speak briefly about the defence and national security aspects of the budget. Last year more than one and a half million immigrants, or one country of people, entered Europe illegally, and 390,000 arrived through our country. Following the closure of the green borders, the number of people wishing to pass through Hungary has fallen to only a few hundred. The attacks in Paris and Brussels have shown that unregulated immigration poses real security risks. The government has taken and taken the necessary measures against external threats for the security of the country, with the necessary resources in the budget. To this end, the budget provides defence with HUF 51 billion more money than in the previous year. The Ministry of Defence is responsible for the protection of Hungary's independence, territorial integrity, international treaties, its population and material assets in the event of natural disasters, as well as the strengthening of citizens' defence consciousness and their financing. The drafting of the bill was a priority for the timely implementation of the developments in the strategic plan of the defence portfolio for the period 2013-2022, as well as the planned developments in the defence policy programme drawn up in accordance with the Ministry of Defence's mandate on the development and updating of the defence policy programme for the years 2015-2018, drawn up in the light of the funding framework set out in the Government Decision. Within the framework of the implementation of the programme, capabilities development programmes will be implemented in a wide spectrum, ensuring the maintenance and development of capabilities arising from the basic mandate of the defence and the provision of capabilities offered to NATO, the modernisation of military equipment and equipment. The 2017 budget proposal of the HM chapter includes the coverage of the 2017 pace of the papal base airport, among the commitments announced by the Prime Minister at the NATO Welsh Summit held in September 2014. In drawing up the budget proposal for this chapter, it was also a priority to continue existing international engagements, including the provision of the resources necessary for the implementation in 2017 of the Parliamentary Decision on the participation of the Hungarian Defence Forces in international action against the Islamic State terrorist organisation. The general amount of support for 2017 in the chapter includes additional resources for the implementation of the following main tasks compared to the 2016 budget. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the implementation of the military career model as of 1 June 2015, the additional expenditure related to the defence allowance for civil servants and the pedagogical career model, the contractual obligations of the development programmes started in previous years and the scheduled implementation of the developments approved in the 10-year plan, as well as the planned developments, the Public Foundation for Warcare, the sectoral support of civil society organisations and the increase in contributions to NATO and EU membership, the increase in the appropriations for domestic and international tasks undertaken by the organisations themselves and financed under central care, and the modest, cost-effective increase of operational expenditure. The total expenditure of the Honvéd Executive Board's direct organisations is HUF 108.4 billion. The planned expenditure amount represents an increase of HUF 37.9 billion compared to the planned appropriations for 2016. The increase is mainly justified by the developments that were approved in the 10-year plan and are planned and ongoing to start on the basis of the MSZP, as well as by the need for operational, maintenance and training tasks related to the development. Dear Parliament, The military national security service has a budget of HUF 14 and a half billion, budget support of HUF 14 billion 350 million and revenue allocation of HUF 150 million. The increase in the appropriation of the chapter by HUF 763,7 million compared to 2016 is justified by staff expenditure linked to the introduction of a military career model and by the funding of the organisation's own tasks. The appropriations for this title, in addition to institutional operational expenditure, shall include the 1995 CXXV on national security services. expenditure necessary to carry out the basic tasks laid down in law, as well as specific operating and development expenditure, as well as the expenditure of the attaché offices. The National Security Service plays an important role in the implementation of the government's objectives, in particular the strengthening of order and public security, and the work on counter-terrorism protection. In the role of central service provider, the National Security Service continuously examines the availability, state of the conditions necessary for the performance of its tasks, development and development guidelines and ideas in order to carry out its services by means of means and methods appropriate to the quality of the age. As part of the counter-terrorism package, the budget of the title includes HUF 2 billion HUF 258 million in additional support, to which 110 people will be added. The Counter-Terrorism Centre was set up by the Government on 1 September 2010 to ensure a more efficient and centralised use of counter-terrorism, available personnel, tangible and budgetary resources. The core task of the TEK is to identify and detect the terrorist threat in time and to apprehend the perpetrators before the act is carried out. The additional tasks related to the move of the Prime Minister's Office into a new building have increased the number of TEK staff by 35 and the annual financing need for status development is HUF 322.7 million. In terms of increased terrorist threats across Europe, the ability of TEK to respond to new challenges and to create security, as well as the technical and logistical conditions that support it, the ability to detect and to use human intelligence, the assessment, analysis, monitoring of data traffic on the Internet and the related technical resources should be improved. With respect to operations units, the conditions for immediate response and the ability of the stock to be present in several places at the same time and to intervene effectively in emergency response shall be ensured by the development of new special units. In order to improve order and public security, the aim of the portfolio was to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of TEK, thereby reducing the level of terrorist threat to our country and increasing the security of the population. The budget proposal provides a surplus of 4 billion 902 million people for a total of 372 staff. These goals are also supported by the planned Tibet at Sebek's base, with a HUF 1 billion HUF 360 million additional resource for its formation and operation and 114 people's staff development in the budget proposal. By transforming the organization of the Organised Crime Coordination Centre, its general successor, the Counter-Terrorism Information and Crime Analysis Centre, operating as a civilian national security service under the control of the Minister of Interior, will be established this year. [[15.40]] With the formation of Tibet, the body will be transferred from the sector of order and security to the civil national security sector. Tibet will be able to provide substantial support for preventive, law enforcement and countering activities, to assist government and security policy decision-making, to meet information and analysis news needs, and to support law enforcement activities in the prevention and detection of cross-border crime through the management of passenger traffic data. As part of the counter-terrorism package, the government intends to establish a system of institutions capable of recognising and responding to the threat to the country's internal and external security in a timely manner. International experience also shows that today's security challenges can be addressed effectively if coordination between services, above all information flows, is perfect. On the basis of the government's security strategy, it can be concluded that terrorism and organised crime, as well as militarism with violence potential, are the focal points of threats to democratic state institutions, national and public security in the future. The established Tibet will carry out the collection, analysis, organisation and evaluation of data relating to terrorism and organised crime, and will contribute to the effective prevention, prevention and detection of terrorist offences and other serious criminal offences by analysing and evaluating the information. The operation of Tibet aims to make effective the fight against terrorist and international organised crime groups, both by increasing the security of the EU and Hungary. The planned number of 130 members of the new organisation justifies the re-establishing of the economic field, to which five statuses from the National Security Service will be transferred. The 2017 budget proposal includes a surplus of 114 staff. The proposed support allocation for 2017 was HUF 1 billion 839 million, while last year's support was HUF 416,8 million, with only 11 members. Dear Parliament, A new, separate appropriation was set out in the chapter entitled "Multi-annual Financial Framework 2014-2020" proposed by the European Commission, entitled "Security and Citizenship" with the name "Internal Security Fund." The Fund is a new, complex, comprehensive financial instrument covering the surveillance of external borders and the EU's resources to support EU visa policy, preventing and combating crime and terrorism. In line with the EU's internal security strategy, the Fund aims to eliminate international criminal networks, to prevent terrorism, to address radicalisation, to increase the security of virtual space, to strengthen security through border management and to improve Europe's resilience to crises and disasters. In Hungary, too, we can expect potential threats in the long term, such as illegal migration, international organised crime, the emergence of various criminal groups, terrorist threats, threats to public order and public security. All this calls for the strengthening of the border security system, the effective involvement of law enforcement bodies in the areas of law enforcement, public security, foreign security and national security, and the strengthening of the fight against terrorism, violent extremeism and radicalisation. Hungary will be able to draw a total of around EUR 61.5 million from the BBA for the actions set out in the national programme in seven years. EU support is 75% and should be complemented by 25 per cent national co-financing. The Ministry of Interior, as the responsible authority, shall draw up a work programme for two or three years of planning periods for the implementation of the national programme. The first work programme was issued by the Minister of the Interior in the framework of the BM instruction on the work programme for the Internal Security Fund during the programming period 2014-2016, in which he envisaged the payment of more than HUF 13 billion as a grant. The planned expenditure in 2017 is financed by EU funding of HUF 926.1 million and budget support of HUF 2 billion 138 million. Mr. President, thank you for letting me know. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-12-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Before I speak to Mr Ander Balázs, I have two announcements to make. One: Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the Group [[Moore in the opposition benches. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Oh, again!]] has informed me that the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party in the political debate will renounce its further timeframe for the benefit of the Fidesz Group. I ask the staff to modify the time frame as notified. The other thing I would like to remind you with all due respect is that the deadline for submitting the amendments expires at 16 o'clock. Thank you very much and I apologise to the Member for preventing him from speaking in the meantime. [[Ander Balázs: No problem!]] You have the floor, please.
u2016-05-12-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to comment on the transport part of the budget myself, its transport, which has a huge influence on the lives of all people, affects everything and the economy at the very least, especially if we think about doing so, the share of exports and imports of GDP in Hungary exceeds 60%. But it also affects environmental protection, personal relations, security and mobility, including access to education and health systems. In connection with the development of transport, a common vision of life, as we say, at a project ceremony, a pro-government politician cuts through the ribbon with a smile on his face. Obviously, we cannot initiate opposition, but, if not at any other time, at least in a budget debate like this, we will tell you what else should be done, what should be done differently. It's a sport like that, that's life, we all do our own thing. Of course, on the pro-government side, you have the right to argue that you are aware of the problems, and to associate resources with opposition speech. Indeed, sources in which we do not thrive, which is why we say that in the case of a better government, we would follow Zoltán Pokorni's words, who said that we should cut off the hand of those who reach into the register. Now, in the context of such overpriced projects, we should do something like this with those who shovel billions more into their already stuffed pockets, by the way, draining funds, these scarce resources from development and legitimate development needs that need to be done. Since we can talk about 150 million paying passengers per year, and there is also a huge mass of pensioners travelling for free, but more actively, as well as some 50 million tonnes of goods, let us talk about the railway, since this transport of goods, this traffic, is carried out by the railway. Let's look at what is very urgently needed in this area, because although we can talk about CEF European money, it is good to know that the renovation is quite simply not keeping up with depreciation, only the development needs of the core network reach HUF 3000 billion, and then we have not yet talked about regional sidelines, which make up 40 percent of the network and are often destroyed to a great extent, on which - for the sake of fairness - only 5 percent of passengers travel and only 2.5 percent rail price traffic is complicated. However, their rural preservation is much more important, and their maintenance is therefore not economical, but justified from a social point of view, and it is very important in this respect. According to the core network and even the government, the combined length of competitive sidelines is about 6,000 kilometers. It would normally be necessary to renovate them every 30 years, which would mean 200 kilometers per year, but we see that it is 20-25 kilometers per year, and in the case of EU funds we can reach 60-65 kilometers per year. So it is no wonder that there is a constant speed limit for 3400 kilometres, and even on lines that fit into the European core network, the proportion of sections with slow signals is above 30 per cent. Let us look at, say, a pre-regime agenda, and see that in many cases the times of access have increased in a shameful way, while at the same time the attractiveness of fixed-track public transport has decreased. [[15.50]] Only 37 percent of the 7700 km long track in Hungary was electrified, compared to 50 percent in Western Europe, but I could highlight Switzerland, where it reached or exceeded 95 percent. And if we wanted Hungary to have, say, 50 percent of the overhead contact line above the tracks, then it must be established that at least a thousand kilometres of railway should still be electrified in Hungary. As long as we have a two-track line ratio of only 15 percent, in Western Europe it's over 40 percent. If we could make the entire TEN-T network two-track, then we could actually just approach this Western European level. Unfortunately, there is a long list of horrific cases of artworks broken down due to decades of maintenance, such as the condition of the Corridor Line rail bridges or the rural stations and waiting rooms that often refer to the Bangladeshi Milio. This is also true of the fleet of vehicles, as it is refreshing to see, say, a Flirt engine train, but it should not be forgotten that this represents just over 10 percent of the passenger car fleet. Therefore, we welcome the future deployment of IC plus cars developed by MÁV experts in Szolnok. Now we are talking about 20 pieces, but let's not forget that we would need a hundred pieces a year to renew our current fleet in 30 years. The average age of 900 locomotives and the good 2600 passenger cars has already exceeded the 30-year design life span by five and three years, but if this direction is maintained, so they are trying to revive the domestic production capacity, we can only support it. The success of the Paris and Milan World Exhibition in 1900 and 1906, where Hungarian railway builders came home with a grand prize. Such tasks would be expected for many overburdened EU operational programmes and even more scarce domestic budget, Mr Secretary of State, which is why we are not willing to accept the wasteful use of these resources and the overpriced projects to make the buddy caste that favors politics even richer, or the Punch of the Highway. And what I've been talking about so far is only iron and socket concrete, so it's part of the hardware, but the MÁV is run by 37,000 employees, who are often tried to deal with in a very brazen way, trying to save money on them in a very nasty way. Obviously, this is not about top executives rewarded with a monthly salary of five million, it's about the hardworking, early rising little people they refer to so much. Without them, the safe operation of the railway plant is completely unthinkable. In a few years, however, 4,000 of these people will retire, and supplies will be scarce. There are several reasons for this. On the one hand, the working conditions, which need to be improved again only three things: money, money, money, money, and, on the other hand, there is the often counterproductive training test system, which should also be done, because it alarms the applicants, and, thirdly, there is the inevitable question of wages, which, I repeat, means a busy penance for the leaders, but it is not attractive at all for the simple railroadmen, but it is competitive with the minimum wage at the most. It is also known that the MÁV has not paid overtime allowances for some ten thousand railway passengers for years, then, after a lengthy length of time, a final court decision stated that the employer should pay his employees back three years on the basis of a detailed account, and that the billions have to be spent. But in order not to be pleased with hardworking small railwaymen, once again, the government would be put on a very nasty draw, as they have come up with a new proposal, and if adopted, the already miserable actions for those employed in the stand-by work can be reduced by 10-15 percent. This is totally unacceptable. Even if the train sets are not, but the labour cripples split in the railway area like the French TGV, so must be said. We can't tolerate these wage differences that quote Latin America. The deepening of these is unacceptable, but if the interests of the government so require, they seem to be able to rewrite the relevant chapter of the Labour Code at any time. This is truly outrageous, repulsive, unacceptable, and the same is the case for those working in bus and coach transport in another very important area of Community transport. A similar anti-worker wage will have to be used as a lasso. They're leaving, moving to Western Europe, where they're being paid. It must be said that workers' poverty is a very serious threat to workers in the Community transport sector, not only those who are hired by assembly lines. And speaking of bus and coach transport, it's almost mid-May, and it's been promised several times by April, right? This has still not been published, and there are even rumors that there will be no such thing this year. There are no sources in this year's budget or next year's budget that would refer to the renewal of the fleet of long-distance road transport companies. If the latest promises we have just made about the prosperity of the domestic bus industry will be worth as much as the previous vows, then the vehicle park for rural community transport will definitely be destroyed, so that it will be either used buses for international companies or a fat business for transport buddies. We can't have any illusions about this either. In this case, about the same thing that happened in the capital will happen. Outsourcing on the back of outsourcing, withdrawal of workers' rights, waste of public funds and support for multi-car companies through controlled import bus purchases, full dissipation of domestic engineering and manufacturing capacities and work culture. We really hope that they will keep their word now, and that's not how it's gonna happen. Especially when it comes to reindustrialisation, which should be at least one of the cornerstones of the economy, and the need to boost GDP growth to five percent. However, sooner or later, the forced replacement of the driving fleet would mean a huge market for the remaining domestic producers. The Prime Minister's Sanity, which concerned football, namely, once we were at the top of the world, we would like to have our place back there, not just for this football, but also for the bus industry. This 5400-piece old fleet needs a quick switch, 1400 should be replaced immediately, and then 500 new buses would be needed each year at the Voláns. In two election cycles, you could stay home with a good HUF 500 billion, and a few thousand skilled workers who would find work at home, not abroad. But as long as there are tender scandals like we've heard of these days, unfortunately, this will not happen. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Ladies and gentlemen, In our opinion, when assessing the budgetary financing of certain areas of transport, it should be assumed that transport is also primarily a national issue. We know that the expectations of the European Union and international large companies, the globalist world economy, are conducive to the development of the main international transport routes, and therefore the availability of the regions of Hungary that have been abandoned by the EU and the global economy has also become a secondary aspect under the Fidesz government. On the one hand, it is to be welcomed that much of EU funding is involved in the development of rail lines, which represent European transport Corridors; we are asking you to hold back the greedy little balls a little here. In fact, the government plans to build the Hungarian fast-track network, which is well above the 222 billion in 2016, but it has to be said that the development and maintenance of the existing non-main road and rail network will continue to be subordinated. Although the budget for the maintenance of the road network represents a step forward for next year's budget, the budget is planned there, but there are only six billion forints available for other road development tasks. Moreover, the development of rural railways outside the international and suburban railway network does not get a penny. We believe that these resources should be increased and that the financial imbalances should be reduced. The fact that the transport infrastructure of rural Hungary has such a subordinate role has and will have serious consequences. Of course, there are some fortunate exceptions; if, let's say, the estate of a distinguished government potentate is located nearby, then there can be easy road renovation. It's like, say, side road 6212 between Agárd and Zichyújfalu, which, let's say, doesn't say much to an ordinary mortal. [[16.00]] But if I add that László L. Simon's winery and pension is nearby, then it will be clear. Well, they're spending almost 1 billion forints on this trip, while in my narrower Patria, let's say, this year only 4 billion forints will be refurbished, which is totally unacceptable. Our small regions and villages are empty in many places for the reasons already outlined here. Young people move because there are not only acceptable roads but also functional railways. The rural Hungary is full of sack villages, a quarter of the settlements of Somogy county, for example, where access to daily work is impossible for most people due to the lack of connecting roads, bridges, and small regional or county public institutions. There is a considerable amount of time spent, extra costs, and the time spent on transport is increasing. I would like to refer once again to the work of a certain author, Ribakov, entitled Children of the Arbat, where the writer put the famous sentence in Stalin's mouth of the mass murderer communist dictator Stalin, saying that if there is no man, there is no problem. This seems to be adapted to small settlements, saying, if there is no small village, then there is no problem - sad. The reason is that there is no need for more than three buses a day in small towns, or two trains, because no one travels with them. In fact, in many cases there are no buses in some settlements on weekends, and in Csonka-Hungary there are 150 settlements from which you cannot reach the nearby city centers by 8:00 in the morning. I ask you what future awaits these settlements. It's a straight road to sure destruction. Appropriate coordination would be needed to ensure that people and home travel can reach regional centres, county seats. That's how we'll have perspective in front of the countryside. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-12-86	I now give the floor to Secretary of State Tuzson Bence.
u2016-05-12-87	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Well, there have been important questions here, and I would like to refer to one thing from the questions that you have raised, namely the situation of the Hungarian automotive industry and its future. What capacity is in fact in Hungary, how to make use of these capacities and what areas where development is needed should be done to ensure that this development takes place in the next period. Of course, in terms of industrial development, budgetary resources must also be directed in this direction. One is the development of fixed-track vehicle production. With regard to the development of fixed-track vehicle production, in Hungary we can actually talk about three major plants that operate and are able to develop, and in Hungary to put their capacity at the service of vehicle production in Hungary. One of these is the vehicle manufacturer in Dunakesz, which the Hungarian government bought not so long ago as to further develop the production of Hungarian fixed-track vehicles. We are talking about a very long-running plant, which, by the way, has a history of nearly a hundred years, which specializes in the manufacture of passenger cars. In connection with this, we have another plant, the Szolnok factory of the MÁV, mentioned by you. In this factory, cars were not previously manufactured and other types of vehicle were produced. On this basis, his tradition is different, but it is necessary for the two to be able to work together. In the case of the previous production of vehicles, which you mentioned, there was a first stage in the production of IC cars, which was done by Dunakeszin at the time. Its actual second stage, its continuation, is now taking place in Szolnok. And the factory in Szolnok and Dunakesz will jointly manufacture the fittings for which the budgetary resources are already provided. So, in the next period, these will be produced and put into service. We can only expect these industrial parts and industrial segments to develop if we also put the vehicle requirements in Hungary into the service of vehicle manufacturing in Hungary; so if the MÁV and other areas where vehicle production can arise, we are talking about the production of fixed-track vehicles, we are also using the capacity of these Hungarian factories. And there is also a factory in Hungary, which is not owned by Hungary, but is still increasingly producing in Hungary, the Stadler plant, which is also mainly operating in Szolnok, which is also capable of producing an aluminum framed vehicle, but can also be used for a type of component that is not available for Hungarian-owned vehicle production. The Hungarian industry is therefore ready to meet the needs of Hungary with regard to the production of fixed-track vehicles, and we must steer budget resources in such a way in the next period, taking into account, of course, EU rules, but we must guide it in such a way that the Hungarian industry is able to satisfy it. There are, of course, orders, such as ordering so-called major exams, which means, in fact, the complete renovation and re-creation of wagons, which are still being carried out today in respect of these vehicle factories, which are also produced abroad. Therefore, for example, in relation to the wagons produced by Bombardier, it can and will be implemented in Hungary at the previously owned vehicle repair facility in Dunakesz, Dunakesz, which is also owned by Bombardier. So this process is already underway, and these three basic plants, which can meet the needs, must go on in the direction in which they can satisfy all corners of the production of fixed-track vehicles. There is no reason to say that every corner, as there are several orders here in the following period, for which, of course, a long-term budgetary resource must be provided: in the case of Budapest, the question of the subterranean. Or, by the way, what could still happen is a question of bridge renovations or the purchase of a new railway. This will be a matter of decision on the part of the capital in the next period. It's one of those demands. Or you can say electric production in the long term, because there are foreign companies such as Solaris in Poland, which is basically a bus manufacturer, but in recent years, for example, it has started to produce trams, not such a devil. It can be done in the world now, and the world's industry is changing. For as long as it was produced by long-standing plants, they switch relatively quickly to some plants for this type of production. These trends should also be taken into account and can be hacked into this segment by buying licenses or improving licenses. Yes, Congressman, that's the direction we're going, which is why we bought that factory in Dunakes. This is why the Szolnok factory is developing in this respect, and it is therefore good for Hungary that Stadler is also developing its Hungarian plant in Szolnok. Together, these plants are able to provide this capacity. That's one side. The other issue is the question of bus manufacturing in Hungary. We have one fortune in this regard; that is our past. After all, Hungary still has a very good reputation in the world, based on the earlier performance of Ikarus. After all, Ikarus buses ran in many places in many countries around the world. Therefore, if the production of buses can be re-boosted in Hungary, then we can be able to meet foreign needs in addition to the needs of Hungary. But indeed, it is only possible to meet the needs of the world, if the Hungarian bus industry is involved, if there are orders in Hungary, and we also serve the orders in Hungary. How are we doing on this? - the question arises. Indeed, we have three plants that can meet a larger number of needs in the short term, within a few years' horizon. At the time, the bus production in Hungary was of the order of thousands in the 1980s, and today it fell to the order of a hundred. But we still have bus production in Hungary today. What we need to look at and look at is how the bus demand that the Volans and municipalities have raised in other areas can be coordinated so that we can put it in the service of the Hungarian bus industry. If there is a need for a bus over the next period, a relatively high number of bus requirements should arise, with the country as a whole being able to meet a demand of around 800 in the long term or 5-6-7 years on an annual basis, which means that, with such a demand, we really need to think about developing this area. It was just yesterday that the government dealt with this, and yesterday it adopted the strategy on this, because we are actually talking about boosting bus production because it is a long-standing sector, and the expertise is available in this respect. Industrial plants that can meet these needs in cooperation with each other are available or can be available within a short period of time, and, of course, market needs will also appear in Hungary. [[16.10]] So everything is ready to develop this area in some form. Let us also not forget what kind of workforce this can generate or the effect on labour absorption. Professionals say that the production of a bus will give ten people jobs. This is why the government wants to focus on this area in the next period, and in a one- or two-year perspective, involving European Union funds as much as possible, obviously taking into account EU rules, but creating a situation where these Hungarian companies are able to compete and take these purchases on the basis of public procurement on the basis of competition, and the Hungarian bus industry can once again boost. Because if we meet the Hungarian needs from Hungary, as they do, let's say the Czechs - if you go to Prague, Czech Republic, you don't really see anything other than Skoda trams running on the streets of Czech Republic. How the Czechs do this is another question, and how much EU rules are respected, with parentheses closed. In any case, we must focus on meeting Hungarian needs in this way. So what appears in the area of vehicle manufacturing is the Hungarian Government's intention to start a major recovery here in terms of both the production of fixed track vehicles, the government took its preparatory steps, and, as I said, it was just yesterday that it dealt with in detail how we can strengthen bus production in this respect and move towards a serious development here too. In this respect, the government has decided, and that is why it is addressing this issue, because it is indeed a two-fold sector. The Hungarian industry and the Hungarian economy cannot be good enough if in Hungary the production activity, i.e. real production, and, of course, innovation are not rooted. The service industry is also important for the country, but the manufacturing industry, so real industrial performance, is particularly important, because also industrial companies that come from abroad, if they despise their feet and are involved in manufacturing here, provide long-term labour. It's not that easy to take a factory overnight. This is capable of guaranteeing wage growth in the long term, of course, this was not mentioned here, but reducing energy prices is extremely important, that in industrial production the final amount, the cost of a product, not the reduction of wages, will start talking, but if, in addition to the increase in wages, energy prices are reduced, Hungary will be able to remain competitive. But it is important to increase industrial production, because the growth of industrial production will ensure prosperity for the country in the long term. This will create stable jobs in the long term, and we must assign to this the development of the education mentioned above - and we have heard enough theatrical contributions from Ágnes Kunhalmi here. And that is exactly what we are talking about when we talk about directing education in the direction of developing useful knowledge and useful expertise. Accordingly, it is also necessary to move towards the transformation of education so that those who acquire knowledge there can apply their knowledge as a successful person; they will succeed if they can use it on the market. So when we talk about the development of industry, we talk about, of course, the development of education. That is why the government is thinking and increasingly emphasising on dual training, because dual training immediately meets market demand and, by the way, production and education. So education and market demand, linking these two together, can generate long-term growth, reduce unemployment in Hungary, which is already declining, but as long as there is one person in Hungary who does not have a job, we cannot be happy. If this can come together, and industry and education can be placed together, then we can say that we are going in the right direction. Returning to education with one sentence, there have been allegations here - let's say subtle statements - which, however, do not stop on the ground, so we talked about an air castle in this regard. If we are talking about education, we should not forget that when we praise the amount of money that the municipal system has invested in education, we have to mention on the other side that it was 1300 billion forints, which was precisely because the former government, previous governments, had withdrawn the money from the education system through the municipal system, that it was precisely the municipalities that were indebted to them. That is why we have to transform and transform this system, but with this system transformation, of course, we are not ready yet. We just got there so we could take another step. With regard to this new step, we now need to take into account and take into account the needs that industry produces and to increase the opportunities that we have in education. And once again, the consistency of education and the development of industry will guarantee the development of Hungary in the long term. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-12-88	I now give the floor to Secretary of State László Tasó.
u2016-05-12-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I was also pleased to hear your comments because I can respond to some of the ideas that have been said, and also that the Secretary of State has just spoken very nicely and comprehensively about the production of vehicles. I'd like to add a few more specifics. So, the importance of vehicle manufacturing in Hungary is no better proof of what numbers we can see if we look at the performance of the previous year, for example, that there is a 13 percent increase in the number of people employed in vehicle manufacturing. In Hungary, this means 150,000 people in total. And the importance of vehicle development in addition to vehicle manufacturing is the proof that Mr Göttinger will soon be a guest of Hungary, and he will also come because, among other things, we need to rethink and discuss in Hungary how quickly we can get into a position in the field of vehicle development, such as vehicle manufacturing, in particular in the field of autonomous vehicles, the development of self-driving cars and the expansion of this industry. We visited the Bosch factory recently with Mr.Lepsényi State Secretary, and occasionally we were amazed at a development, and I dare say that this segment has also received a huge boost in Hungary, as, among other things, the Budapest University of Technology and Economics operates departments that can clearly make Hungary the leading base of Europe. Stopping for a moment also in connection with the training, specifically the agreement with the Hungarian Public Road not too long ago, two weeks ago, on the issue of supporting the Budapest University of Technology and Economics, a career model, that we want the Public Road to be able to conclude scholarship programmes and contracts with engineers who could be held in Hungary in the road sector. And this is the future, indeed, when industry and higher education are connected and together they try to keep engineers and scientists. The fact is that Hungary must sacrifice for this, and we are ready to do so. What is important and important is that, compared to the previous ones, the development goals that the European Union does not support are certainly undertaken by the Hungarian government from domestic sources and should be welcomed in all areas. I am also asking you to be fairer with our assessment, because in Hungary we have the opportunity to use quite serious, 1,200 billion EU funds in the field of rail development. On the other hand, the MÁV must carry out on its own initiative the course maintenance that is otherwise necessary. The railway network is extremely dense in Hungary, one of the most dense in Europe, by the way. Indeed, there is a high price, and it requires great efforts to maintain the sidelines, but we stand by the mud and maintain the sidelines. We are also naturally looking at the possibility of rationalising our transport, as this is also necessary. We have put a lot of effort into examining this, and let me say that the statements that we are not paying attention to the transport of the walks are not true at all, because we are coordinating the transport of each district in such a way as to enable bus or rail transport to reach the district centre. We go through every walk every time, and as far as I know, there are no excuses in any walk about getting there. [[16.20]] We will also coordinate this in the railway and bus areas. If there is, we will obviously examine and try to fulfill the requests there, but what can be reasonably done has already been done. One thing is certain that maintaining public transport in Hungary requires extraordinary costs, so it is sensible and clear that the production of vehicles should be combined with the development needs of the coming years. Mr Secretary of State has just spoken about the clear position on bus manufacturing that the Hungarian Government is building this capacity for Hungary, which is not yet in existence, because it is only partially available, it needs to be developed, and it does require force and order to be able to start and operate. Therefore, the question concerning Volán companies, which was about what was happening to Volán companies, and how the service contracts will be extended, will be continuously entered into, put into service, will be scheduled to write out applications, and will soon be visible in what schedule and in what form they will do so, but will be clearly coordinated with the production of vehicles. As regards rail transport, he also mentioned that there are very few electrified networks in Hungary. In this cycle, we will electrify 450 kilometers, with a total of 800 kilometers of electrification that will either lead to a new phase, the construction of new stages, or the renovation of the old ones. To contribute and help in electrification over 800 kilometers is to meet the expectations of almost a thousand kilometers, as the Member has just mentioned. Grabbing on railway developments, it is just necessary to mention some important developments that will basically help the area of rail transport in Hungary, whether the completion of the 100 line to Apafa, the construction of 80, the renovation of Rákos to Miskolc, Nyíregyháza, or the completion of the South Balaton phase 2, the electrification between Zalaszentiván and Szombathely. These are very serious and very high-profile investments. Or let us not forget the possibility of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line and the first part of the pace of its development that will start shortly, and it will become apparent that it is indeed something that keeps Hungary in a basic position. There has been a debate about this in Parliament, and many have opposed it, but in the end everyone trusts in silence that Hungary will indeed not be avoided by the huge quantity of goods coming from the seas to Europe. Our goal is clearly that we can catch this, we can get it, and let it pass through us, let them pay for it through us. What is very important is that in the field of rail transport it is absolutely important to review, and it is important to consider, now, in the changes in Budapest's transport and in its relation, about which a government decision has already been made in the past, and accordingly, the transformation has already started in detail. A beat will be completed by the end of June, and the next one by the end of the year. So there are very serious changes to be made, but I am very confident that you will see nothing of this, only the good end of the roaders. What is even important is that we have also made this area safe in Hungary in the field of Hungarian rail operation, as its ten-year contract guarantees Hungarian State Railways and GYSEV to be able to operate its network, or, for example, from the Hungarian road, with immediate effect. I would like to remind you that we concluded the agreement in February, which allows for a model to operate in Hungary in the case of the maintenance of roads that had not been previously. They can spend 400 billion forints on maintenance and operation over the next five years on the Hungarian road. This means, for example, that they can spend more than HUF 13 billion on the maintenance, maintenance, operation of the system in the specific 17th grade. That's not renovation, that's another envelope. Well said, we spend 286 billion forints from our domestic budget on investments in which we do not have any EU funds. I don't want to list any of these, as you know, we've told you many times about it, M44, M4, Esztergom access road, Ozd-Bátonyterenye, I could say, 471, so all Sopron connections are vital, and the Hungarian people are waiting for them. I have more to say, but I have to save time, so I'll keep going if I can. Thank you very much for your attention. (Applause from the pro-government benches.
u2016-05-12-90	I now give the floor to Congressman Márius Révész.
u2016-05-12-91	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I've been a congressman since 1998, and if I count it correctly, this is the 19th budget I've been present in making it. At the same time, I must say that at a budget such as that which has just been submitted to this House, I have not yet been present, because this is a budget that provides very significant progress in almost all areas, but at the same time has a very low budget deficit. If we just take it into account, it envisages an extra HUF 132 billion for public education compared to this year, plus HUF 45 billion for higher education, plus HUF 167 billion for health care, plus HUF 155 billion for social care. If we just add to all this that, by the way, this budget is a 2.4 percent deficit, then I think that even if we look back to 1990, we will find nothing like this anywhere. No wonder, by the way, that the opposition side does not find exactly what should be said here for this budget. When the budget came out, in the first period, quite a number of people called for an election budget, left-wing, balliberal media, indicated what an outrageous thing it was, the deficit was growing to 2.4 percent, while in the last year it was 2 percent. And then they felt that it wasn't perfect, so yesterday, the day before yesterday, it appeared that there was going to be a huge, brutal cut in the budget. They added up all the budget cuts, and a thousand-billion-dollar number came out. The seriousness of the number, I think, is well indicated by the fact that, for example, due to the government's disciplined economic policy, it is necessary to spend HUF 80 billion less in the following year, but it did not prevent the wise journalists of the newspapers from reporting this HUF 80 billion into the thousand billion that reduces their various items in the budget. So, I have to say, it's hard to find a catch on this budget. If we look back on the debate, we can recall that, last day and today, several of our fellow Members have pointed out that they see an enormous amount of pointless investment in this budget, development, and that this should certainly be considered here. Let me put one fact to the attention of my fellow Members. This year's budget also had to start by setting a thousand billion forints, to be exact, 955 billion forints, for the continuous repayment of government debt in 2017. It costs about a thousand billion forints. This amount of HUF 1 000 billion comes out that between 2002 and 2010 we have managed to increase the public debt considerably and the burden of this, although I do not like it when we are eight years old, but when we draw up a budget, it is important to start with the fact that the burden of this, these interest expenditures, must be entered into the budget. I have to say, we can be satisfied with this thousand billion forints, as this was even more than 1300 billion forints a few years ago. So, by keeping the budget deficit under control, with a very low percentage and a premium on credit at international level, this also means a saving of HUF 300 billion to the country. I have to say that the sentence of Agnes Kunhalmi, which could leave his mouth, was very striking when he spoke of the government living up to the country's reserves, says Agnes Kunhalmi, while they were living up to the country's future, because we have to pay this thousand billion forints because they were pursuing the economic policy they were pursuing. If they had only kept the deficit or deficit of around 50 per cent of the budget or of GDP in Hungary, then in this case the amount that could be allocated by the budget would have increased by approximately HUF 400-500 billion each year. We could have spent so much more money on education, health care, social services. But no, because of the irresponsible economic policy they've been pursuing, we have to plan this extra budget year after year. So then, let me put it this way, Agnes Kunhalmi's statement was very shocking. Not only do I see it this way, they had a dear Prime Minister, Ferenc Gyurcsány, who told me that we were living better than the country's opportunities, that it was shocking, he said in 2006. Here I would refer to the fact that the sentence of Ágnes Kunhalmi that they had a very good economic policy, but the global economic crisis came, it is clear that it is absolutely not true, because in 2006 there was no sign of the global economic crisis, and in 2006 Hungary's budget deficit was 9.4 percent. [[16.30]] Let us recall that this year is going to be 2.5 percent, and we are at about the same rate of government. The budget provides significant extra resources for many areas. There will be money for wage increases, and we can safely say that everyone can take a step forward. It will also be possible to raise wages in health care, education and the social field. However, the next year's budget will not only cover wage increases, but also a lot of other areas will benefit in the coming year.We can say from 2017 that the year of home creation will be as well, with HUF 211 billion in the budget for this purpose. We expect the new home creation programme to make it easier for families with children to get housing, to build more new homes, thus increasing the economy and more jobs. In addition, family members are also helped by the tax relief of two children from HUF 12 500 to HUF 15,000 per child. This concerns 360,000 families, and the overall budget of this will be HUF 15 billion, i.e. HUF 15 billion for families with two children.In 2017, the free textbook supply will take place in the fifth grade as well, so it will be free there as well. There will also be HUF 2.5 billion in kindergarten capacity expansion, and support for children's meals will increase to HUF 73 billion. Several times in the debate there has been a split-up of society here, said especially about the left, but even my better fellow Members mentioned this. I have to say that according to international surveys, so if we look at Eurostat data, Hungarian income inequalities are below the EU average. Income inequalities are also greater in Germany, France, Spain and England than in Hungary. I must say that, of course, it is undoubtedly true of the opposition argument that the magnitude and depth of poverty increased in Hungary between 2008 and 2012, but I would also like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that this process stopped in 2013. From 2013, neither the depth nor the magnitude of poverty increased, and even in 2014 - just before the committee, the latest set of data on the CFP for 2014 - the situation has improved significantly due to growth, and in 2014 the situation was better than it was in 2010. That year, I say 2010 because it was the last year of MSZP-SZDSZ governance. To give concrete data - I am talking about KSH data - there is a table that shows the proportion of households with children at risk of poverty. In 2010, this ratio was 35.4 percent, and in 2014 it was 31,3 percent. So we can say that the proportion of households with children at risk of poverty is nearly 4 percent less than it was in 2010. So then, when the socialists say what a deterioration in society has occurred, it becomes significantly discredited, because this figure clearly proves that the situation is still bad, but in their last year of government it was even worse. But we can also look at the deprivation factors. Lack of a one-week stay: In 2010, 66.3% of respondents said that they did not have the opportunity to do so, and in 2014 this was 55 percent. Lack of meat consumption every two days: 29,2 per cent in 2010 and 23,7 per cent in 2014. Lack of heating of the apartment: 12.2 percent in 2010 and 9.6 percent in 2014. If someone says these numbers aren't good at all, then I totally agree with him. So it is absolutely terrible that the rate of poverty in households with children is still above 31 percent. This rate is unacceptable, but I must say that it is also worth looking at trends. We can be pretty sure - watching social processes, unemployment trends, income outflow - that the situation will improve in 2015 too, and I even think that in 2016. We are also reporting year after year on positive processes in the field of poverty, and I believe that this process, as we look at the budget, will not only be true for 2015 and 2016, but will continue in 2017. After all the forecasts show that the unemployment rate will decrease in the coming period, and that the real value of wages will increase significantly, and I believe that quite few countries can say, in an international comparison, that real wages will increase by more than 5% or more in a given country for four to five years. I believe that the responsible economic policy in Hungary will achieve that real wages in Hungary will increase by more than 5 percent in 2018 after 2014 and after 2015, in 2016, in 2017 and in our hope. And if that is the case, I think that it will make economic growth, economic development and the results of the economic policy that we have pursued felt for everyone. I believe that after 2014, 2015, 2016, we have the right to trust that a lot of people can say about themselves in 2017 too, that they have made one in 2017 too. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-12-92	I now give the floor to Congressman László Teleki.
u2016-05-12-93	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, It is very difficult to speak at this time, after what Márius Révész said, that if an opposition politician disagrees with him, he thinks that only because he is a opposition politician, but he is not. The reason we cannot agree is that if you look into the budget, but try not only to take out the positive figures, but also to put together trends in Hungary, you can see and sense that there is a very big problem. It's very bad because there's a lot of poverty. At a time when various research and surveys say that more than 4 million poor people live in Hungary, believe them, because they represent a scientific sphere who wants to prove that there are so many poor people and show different facts about where they are. Therefore, I think that if there are more than 4 million poor people, then there is a basis for looking at the 2017 budget for where poverty eradication can be directed to a course that is absolutely important for Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, Don't forget it's a national matter. It is a national matter whether we can eliminate poverty in Hungary, and it is not possible to exclude only on the right or on the left how it can be handled. Therefore, I say today that there is labour poverty, and the best way to achieve workers' poverty is that today in Hungary those who live on wages and salaries cannot really earn anything other than yellow cheques, and there is no welfare expense outside their kitchen, which might remain in their wallets or in their bank accounts. Therefore, I think that there can be no question that there is not only malnutrition and child hunger in Hungary, but also labour poverty in Hungary. As a result, I think that the government has something to do with the 2017 budget plan, because I do not see that these are eliminated. But if I go any further, you, my colleague Márius Révész, will tell me how much you have for health care. There is indeed a rise there, that cannot be a question. But with the backlog that health care has right now, do you think that stain can be patched up at the cost we can see here? What I'm saying is, no, you're not handling the question of where the hospital's resources are, where the nurses' or the doctors' wages are, and where are the many shortages that hospitals are already struggling with? I do not see this, and there is no mention of what lines in health care might be able to discover that there are different sources for prevention and prevention. [[16.40]] So, as a result, I think it is safe to say that this is a budget for the exclusion of the poor in the 2017 budget year, because there is no way to see workers stop poverty; there is no way to see them pay the workers in health care or pay the doctors. I was in the country yesterday, a paramedic came up to me and said, 'Mr Teleki, Congressman, tell Parliament that paramedics live in unprecedented poverty.' They're living in unprecedented poverty, and I'm deliberately not saying it because I don't want to embarrass the paramedic. He told me what tools to work with and what system to work in. I think that with the budget number you've told me, you can argue whether it's going to be worth anything to deal with these cases. In addition, let me give you a few thoughts about my field of expertise. When you say that you adopted the Roma national strategy in 2011, the Hungarian government adopted it, then it built four main priorities that are very important to represent Roma interests, representing integration: employment, education, health and housing. Ladies and gentlemen, I think all four areas can be seen where the budget is being realised. I'm telling you, they can't find lines that can handle these things. The nationality committee is sure to be able to tell us trends where there may be some rise in culture, but I do not see it in housing, for example, if it is possible to begin to eliminate Gypsy settlements, which, by the way, is already on the table in Hungarian internal politics, where is the source that would handle this situation. Write and say, you've given up 110,000 people. Once again, write and tell me that 110,000 people have been given up. There are nearly 600-650 Gypsy colonies in Hungary today, and these people live there. Not only do these people have nothing to do with employment, they don't have much to do with education, and they can be classified as where those who live in health care are. You can't argue with that, I think, because you can argue with sociologists; you can argue with people who live in gypsy farms, because then you can see something happening. But since there is a very poor interest in settlements, it is my duty to say here in Parliament that 110,000 people are being abandoned; they leave those who live on the side of the road and do not want to hold their hands to take them to a place where they can live a normal life. Therefore, I think that they have a responsibility in this matter. However, the question of what they want with the question of health, for example, can be seen in a similar way with regard to the other three priorities. I do not want to bring up very large sets of figures, but I have to say one thing: this budget does not pay attention to the fact that the Roma die in Hungary 10-15 years before the non-Roma, and by more than 15 years compared to the European average. So I do not see the budget line that would say yes, then we need to address this issue, and we need to launch preventive programmes to reverse this situation of life, or to allow such a great death among the Roma. This is a major problem for people living in Gypsy farms, and it is also a huge problem for people living in non-Gypsy farms. But not only the Roma, but there are similar trends elsewhere, because in Northern Hungary, Eastern Hungary, there is no need to be a ruin now to be in a line where they do not see how to get out of that fate. Therefore, I think it is very important that you can also address this issue. About education, maybe I should have started with that. You have renounced the future of young people in this educational programme, which we see in the budget, and, in particular, when we look at the Roma, they have been largely abandoned, because when they have been reduced from 18 to 16 years, this represents the resources shown in the budget or withdraws them from education, because they have received much less public education than they have received in the past period, because they have already been out of school at the age of 16. As a result, of course, this has saved a lot of money, but I would like to warn the government that this will backfire in employment and social care, because those who will otherwise be underqualified and out of the school system at the age of 16 will not be able to get a job because they will be unskilled and uneducated. And it's gonna be the fact that they're gonna increase the numbers of aid workers, and the extremists are gonna have to point fingers at them about how the Roma are. Therefore, do not give anyone any basis to be like this. Therefore, consider in the budget whether they are able to manage this, because today we see that there is no chance in education, especially for Roma in Hungary, but also for the poor to break out, because this measure has an impact on this budget. I have to say a positive thing. I think that kindergarten care has been made compulsory, that is very important, because at least those who enter the nursery system from the age of three can eat and be able to be in an environment that can be upbuilding to them, especially from the age of three, when their development begins. So it's definitely positive, and I think it's a very important thing. However, I do not see how in public education they can resolve the fact that it is okay, as has been said here several times, that food can be provided to them during the week, and in many places it is so, but weekend care is where at home, when workers are talking about poverty or the poor or the unemployed, they cannot feed them. You can say, "Don't eat these kids on the weekends," but you don't. It is a government's duty to examine how to manage a single bowl of hot food on weekends for children who are now out of that system. Write and say: 300-350 thousand children starve on weekends. [[Márius Révész: Why did they get out? Where were they in it?]] 350,000 children starve on weekends. What does the government want with this budget? Where will you show me what source you can assign to this? Therefore, I think that there is also a positive point in education, what I have said, that is kindergarten, but I do not see how these issues can be addressed. 'Cause I don't see in this budget, either, that they might be able to handle extracurriculars, talent management. Some school programs are working well, and I would also like to stress that. So I'm not just telling you the wrong thing, I'm telling you the right thing. Some school programs work well. However, this does not work in a curve that would provide a solid basis for a lot of, say, weekend colleges or schoolings or sample schools that are run outside of school. And that's a big problem, because you can't calculate tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, what will happen to these school programs. Therefore, it is not possible to see in the budget how we will be given the opportunity, in the next year or two years, to make sure that the school programmes are present. My last and final thought is employment, as I have mentioned in the four priorities. It is very important to have public employment, which you are very happy to use for cosmetic purposes. However, do not forget that it is not possible that only one programme, public employment, should be the employment directive. If they cannot redirect those who have been public workers for 5 to 10 years now to the competition sector, to the labour market, then I say that they are making a very big mistake, because this will increase poverty further, and it will not be good for anyone, especially for public finances, for the next period of the budget, because they will distribute more aid than wages. As a result, I think they have a job to do in this too. So I ask you, I have tabled a number of amendments to support the amendments in the committees and in Parliament, because then we can certainly manage some things that affect the poor in Hungary and affect the Roma population in this regard. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-05-12-94	I now give the floor to Congressman Miklós Simon.
u2016-05-12-95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As a Member of Szabolcs and a person who has been mayor of a large settlement for 12 years, I would like to say to my fellow Member Teleki that, unlike what was the case with us in 2010, we had to find a job in order to find a job, even a job in public employment, my fellow Member, we can now say that in North-East Hungary, so it is also a sign in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, who wants to work. [[16.50]] This is a great achievement, thanks to our concern for public employment, and in this budget there are HUF 340 billion earmarked for the employment of 220,000 people, and at your time there were 10 billion. At the time, public employment was really a deficit operation, and now it's a sensible activity aimed at getting these people into the market. And as strange as I am saying, my honourable fellow Member, we have come to the point in Nyírbátor's area that there is no working hand, so we must bring people from 40 to 50 kilometres to Nyírbátor, Nagykálló, because so many new plants have been installed. There have been a thousand new market jobs in this area of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County in the last year, and there is no man to work. On the other hand, I agree with you, the serious problem is that we cannot transfer public employment to market employment. This needs to be worked on, because large-scale public employment is not, in my opinion, a solution to social problems in the long term, but it is not a solution in the longer term. It could be a solution to increase the number of jobs in the market, but thank God, I believe that in ten years we will be able to create that one million new jobs together. But I would also like to talk about something else, my fellow Members, namely the security aspects of the budget. Europe has faced a new situation in which maintaining peace and security requires much more effort than before. The Islamic State is a particular threat to Europe because terrorists have taken advantage of the wave of immigration and the easy entry into Europe of helpless European policy. As a result, the security situation on the continent has deteriorated and the threat of terrorism has increased. Europe must defend itself and regain its ability to protect its borders. In Hungary's time, he assessed this situation, and first and only, in the crossfire of serious criticism, began to secure its borders in his own way. Today, we can see that in the midst of fewer attacks and criticism, everyone strengthens its borders and anti-terrorist measures. The government is committed to Hungary's security, and there is nothing else to do, because if we recall, almost two million citizens in the national consultation supported it by signing to introduce restrictions on the regulation of immigration. The attacks in Paris and Brussels have shown that unregulated illegal immigration poses real security risks. There is no compromise in protecting the country against external threats. To this end, the Parliament and the Government should take appropriate measures and the budget should provide the necessary resources for this. The area of security is also highlighted in the 2017 budget, because the security of our country cannot be a matter of negotiation. Overall, the government proposes to spend some HUF 100 billion more next year on the protection of the country, i.e. police, defence, intelligence and counter-terrorism. In order to achieve the objectives of the Ministry of Interior, you can also work with a larger budget in 2017, and the same applies to the Ministry of Defence. In recent years, public policy and public security have improved significantly and the prestige of police and defence personnel has also increased. This is mainly due to the outstanding performance of the stock, but the new model of law enforcement and military careers introduced in 2015 has also contributed to this. On 1 July 2015, an average of 30 per cent of the salary was paid, and every year, until 1 January 2019, the average salary of the police and the soldiers increased by 5 per cent. The 2017 budget proposal provides cover for this year's 5 per cent salary development as a continuation of the career models launched. I think it is important to take this measure, because it will make both police and military careers a real career. Hungary's economic situation is increasing year after year, so more money can be made for defence. In terms of budgetary resources, the main amount of support for the defence chapter will be significantly increased by HUF 53.7 billion in 2017, making it worth more than HUF 350 billion in defence next year. This represents an increase of almost 20 per cent compared to the previous year's appropriations, representing 0.94 per cent of GDP. This indicator is also important because Hungary undertook to increase its defence expenditure in 2014 to bring it closer to the NATO average. The Military National Security Service has more than 14 billion forints from the defense budget. You can spend more than HUF 29.3 billion on the operation of the Honvéd Health Centre. In addition, a HUF 401 million investment fund was planned for the Honvéd Hospital. The budget of the Ministry of Interior will also increase significantly next year. Each of the law enforcement agencies belonging to the wallet can manage with more money. The police can spend HUF 40 billion more than this year, or HUF 206 billion on personal expenses and HUF 6.6 billion on investment. The Counter-Terrorism Center receives HUF 12.6 billion for personal expenses, and can spend more on real estate expenses, totaling HUF 2.3 billion. Punishment personnel will receive HUF 40 billion for their personal expenses next year, instead of HUF 28 billion this year, while they will receive HUF 22.7 billion for their investment, which is important due to the increase in the number of seats due to EU requirements. [[17.00]] The National Directorate-General for Disaster Protection can also manage a larger budget, which amounts to some 79 billion forints. Ladies and gentlemen, Due to recent terrorist acts in Europe and the associated and associated migration crisis, people's safety needs to be prioritised. Due to the deterioration of our security environment, we also need to increase the budget for these areas, which is ensured by Hungary's growing economy every year. The Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association supports the current budget, and I respectfully ask you to support it. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-05-12-96	I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Kulcsár.
u2016-05-12-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk about the 2017 budget defence chapter. In the first place, what could be said about this is that, in short, I would like to express my own and Jobbik's opinion that the defence chapter is a budget of stagnation at one place. The same amount of money is devoted to defence as in this year, and the government is not giving us the opportunity to develop our forces seriously. And if we put an international outlook on the states in the region, we can see that Poland has expanded its military spending by 22%, Romania by 11%, Slovakia by 17%, Latvia by 14 percent and Lithuania by 33 percent in one year. Where are we compared to this? In Hungary, military spending decreased by 30 percent between 2006 and 2015, with four years of socialist and five years of Fidesz governance. It can also be seen that both MSZP and Fidesz are responsible for the demise of the defence. It is a small consolation that we are experiencing a minimum increase in this year's and next year's budgets, which is mainly due to the migrant situation. The main expenditure of the defence chapter is around HUF 300 billion in 2016, which is less than 1 percent of the planned GDP. [[Defiance in the ranks of Fidesz.]] This is not ridiculous, but rather sad, honourable fellow Member. [[Dr. Imre Vas, it's up 20 percent!]] It does not reach 1 percent of GDP, even though you are happy to say, as the Minister of Defence has often said, that international obligations must be respected. This time, I would like to remind you once again that NATO expects us to spend 2% of GDP on defence spending. In this draft budget, we will not even reach 1 percent, but we will not only achieve NATO expectations at the bottom, but we also need to know that in order to have the defence of the country, we need at least 3.6 percent in our situation today for a few years. Compared to this, the main amount of the defence chapter is totally unacceptable. Our Fundamental Law states that the soldiers are to be paid in proportion to their sacrifice. Despite the welcome wage increases, this has still not been achieved. In the future, we would like to increase your salary in proportion to the sacrifice of the soldiers. We're still not uploaded, we're short of the planned 29,700 people. There is no progress in the number of soldiers to be deployed, and the shortage of numbers is a lasting one. The biggest deficit in the defence budget is the small number of developments and the small amount spent on development. In addition, the Gripen lease is also booked as a development, which amounts to nearly HUF 30 billion a year. If we take this out of it, there's only 8 percent of the defense budget for development. The ideal ratio would be 40 percent personal, 30 percent material, 30 percent development expenditure, but this ratio is so distorted that nearly 50 percent personal, 42 percent material, and, as I just mentioned, we only spend 8 percent development. It's impossible to build a powerful force. This road is moving towards decommissioning our army, as it has been for the past 25 years. Next year's budget doesn't include the launch of a helicopter tender or the purchase of a helicopter. The government's been hovering this for a long time. Our question is when this tender will be issued, and where will it be paid if it is not included in the budget. And let's not just talk about transport helicopters, but also about the fact that we don't have a combat helicopter when the Mi-24s are pulled out, so a major form of fire support is gone. What are the government plans on this? Speaking of flying, I've had some disturbing news recently about rescuers in the air. It's been a while since we were supposed to be looking for a crashed sports plane at night, but the two night vision Mi-17's operating hours were long over, so they waited until morning, and then they left. The improvement and modernisation of the existing Mi-17s is an essential task, and this requires approximately HUF 2 billion. I hope that this budget will give us the opportunity to do so. What we have said many times: Jobbik opposes any military action on foreign interests. During our history, we have also experienced what it is like to have foreign troops stationed in the territory of our country. This is why we cannot let our principle be that there are no Hungarian soldiers abroad. It is a general problem that the use of our military forces in areas threatened by terrorists abroad in the role of peacekeepers, advisors or military forces threatens the security of our country and the lives of the soldiers serving there. Although it does not matter what kind of engagement it is, in the spirit of solidarity, it is possible to take on the role of observers or advisors in the United Nations, to send aid supplies to the relevant zone, but to avoid and avoid armed participation in the future. When the Islamic State was established, it declared jihad against all countries that dared to prevent their recovery. It is not possible to know which terrorist organizations are hiding outside ISIS or which citizens are taking action on behalf of the organization, so it is irresponsible to station military troops in Islamic war zones. We spend more than 20 billion forints a year to fight against the Islamic State, which is an unnecessary risk for our country, in addition to the fact that Hungarian soldiers are serving on foreign soil and may be at risk. By the way, Fidesz and the Democratic Coalition voted for this action hand in hand. The amounts we spend on this are not in the same line in the budget, they are divided up, so it is quite difficult to submit an amendment proposal. In any case, we also demand the suspension and termination of these missions which pose a threat to Hungary, and the funds saved here would be transferred to military development. Let me also mention another amendment to our proposal. In the known international situation - I am thinking of the Ukrainian-Russian war and the threat posed by the Islamic State already mentioned - military national security services have a particularly important role to play. In order to be able to complete their highly valuable task and to ensure the safety of the Hungarian people to the full, additional costs would be required. We have also tabled this in the form of an amendment, and I call for the Government's support for this. What is still important and also aimed at transfer within the chapter is the matter of the Honvéd Health Bank. As we know, several soldiers and law enforcement workers have invested their money in the Honvéd Health Bank, and now this money is being held back, because with Buda-Cash's gambling activity, he has looted the banking group where the savings were held. We're talking about 28,000 people and their families. That would be 1.8 billion forints. We'd like to compensate for the loss of these people. We need to talk about the Kratochvil Károly Honvéd High School and College in Debrecen as a positive example. This is the only military high school in the country with multiple over-subscriptions, and therefore deserves special support. The state is obliged to sacrifice to improve the building and equipment of the school. At the same time, the number of training staff could be increased, and this could be resolved within the Ministry of Defence. I would like to talk about an initiative that the governing parties had previously swept off the table, although it wouldn't really cost much money, it would simply be enough to get out of the penance they're about to have for defence. Our Fundamental Law states that all Hungarian citizens are obliged to protect their country. Based on this, we have presented our proposal on basic training for voluntary military training. The illegal immigrant masses have seen a marked increase in public confidence in the defence of the population, thus increasing susceptibility to military responsibilities. [[17.10]] This has been confirmed, by the way, at the Additional Command, where I did earlier, we visited. The fact that there have been recent attacks in European countries has allowed us to present the voluntary military to the Parliament in the light of the change of public mood. The application would have given all Hungarian citizens the opportunity to comply with the requirements for voluntary operational reserveers, but for family, workplace or other reasons they are unable to take up the reserve service, which means a very serious use, six months of mandatory service every three years. The basic element of the proposal is that every suitable candidate should receive a basic military training, take his oath and, if appropriate, get a rank. This would have created a dormant reserve stock, which could have been linked to a qualified situation. Unfortunately, as I have already said, the majority of governments did not support this, despite the fact that in January at a five-party meeting the Minister called this proposal good and said that he was thinking in the same way. Overall, despite the positive changes in the portfolio's approach with the change of minister, including the five-party negotiations, the defence budget is disappointing, as I have already said, the one-place budget. There is certainly more to be done in this area, and we have also tabled it to Parliament in the form of our amendments, and I would like to ask for the support of my fellow Members. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-12-98	I now give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre.
u2016-05-12-99	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Although I was planning on commenting on the subject of justice, I cannot ignore the comments of our fellow Member Kulcsár, he believes that the defence budget is disappointing. This year, the Hungarian Defence budget is HUF 282.7 billion, according to the draft budget, which we hope will be accepted by the Parliament, HUF 336.4 billion. So this rise in budget resources between 19 and 20 percent is disappointing to my fellow Member. To be honest, I have a very positive view of this, that we can spend 19 to 20 percent more on the defense. It is true, what my fellow Member said, that he was around HUF 300 billion last year and this year, but between 282.7 and 336.4, according to my calculations, there is HUF 53,7 billion, and this is a very large amount, even within the entire Hungarian budget. Turning to the issue of justice: as Vice-President of the Judicial Committee and as a member of the Legislative Committee, I know and perceive that legislation has a very prominent role in government work. It is therefore in the interest of effective cooperation with the judicial system and effective representation of national interests before European and other international fora that a separate Ministry of Justice should be established in 2014, which will develop and implement the government's judicial policy. As part of the legislative tasks, the Ministry is also an important player in parliamentary life, and also as responsible for constitutionality, compliance with EU law, in the negotiations within the public administration. From the perspective of two years, I think it was the right decision to set up an independent judicial department. Although my fellow opposition Members sometimes mince on the quality of legislation, I think it is appropriate to acknowledge, regardless of party standing, that high quality work is being done in the Ministry of Justice and that there is a prepared apparatus. In the government cycle, it carries out very important codification tasks by codifying civil proceedings, criminal proceedings, administrative procedures and administrative rules. These large-scale legislative tasks require a systemic approach and awareness and responsibility of social policy objectives. I note that these tasks are significant, i.e. the creation and adoption of codes of procedure are still ahead of us. I believe that a sound financial background is essential for this work that requires great care, which is clearly provided by the 2017 budget. I would like to point out, a little out of the resources, that the protection of the Hungarian constitutional identity and the strengthening of its acceptance on the international stage are also the primary task of the Ministry of Justice. That is why I am very pleased that this was also recorded in the Government decision on justice policy in 2014. Constitutionality is therefore the cornerstone of the government's judicial policy, and the Minister of Justice therefore declares, in the course of the legislation, the constitutionality of the draft legislation prepared by the executive authority. The legislation must comply with the values of the Fundamental Law. The establishment of the legal system must also pay close attention to Hungary's obligations arising from its membership of the international and European Union. I would add that there may be some points of dispute between the two, and it is essential that national interests be effectively protected, supported by an appropriate legal argument, which the Ministry of Justice performs in an exemplary manner. I would like to highlight the National Intellectual Property Office as one of the bodies appearing in the budget of the Ministry of Justice. The tasks planned for 2017 and the organisational objective of the Office are to comply with the requirements laid down by the rules on the basis of which it operates, to provide the public authorities' duties in relation to the submission of applications for patents, trademarks, copyrights and research and development and innovation, all of this at the quality level of market and institutional operators, international market players and partner institutions. Among the traditional tasks of the National Intellectual Property Office is to facilitate the operation of the Visegrad Patent Institute established by the Visegrad States, to create administrative and infrastructure conditions and to perform related patent, research and pre-test tasks. The Office also plays an expert role in the international work to establish a framework for European patent cooperation with unitary effect, which is expected to start operating in 2017. In this regard, I would like to point out that the resources of the Office's expenditure continue to be entirely generated by its own revenue. Another institution with very important tasks is the Justice Office. Whether it is victim assistance, patronage supervision, legal assistance, compensation cases or even family bankruptcy services, all of them are performed by this office. In particular, I would like to point out that, in its role as self-executor of the court, it will carry out investigations to verify the administration, functioning and conduct of self-executors, as well as 3/2015. the supervision of complaints and the recording of disciplinary proceedings against the action of independent judicial enforcement pursuant to the Minister's Decree on Justice. This task is a very important element in restoring people's trust in justice; as the activities of the Judicial Experts and Research Institutes can be a starting point for public trust in justice. [[17.20]] It is therefore in our fundamental interest to provide these institutions with adequate budgetary resources, which is also included in the 2017 budget. In the case of the Judicial Experts and Research Institutes, this amount is nearly HUF 3 billion. Finally, let me draw attention to the fact that the 2017 budget does not break with the fact that, as we hope, it will provide special attention and therefore budgetary resources for programmes aimed at raising the level of legal training. I believe that this is an excellent investment in the future. Just as support for the judicial sector is a profitable process, by simplifying procedures, increasing the efficiency of the institutional system, increasing the confidence in the judiciary, Hungary's competitiveness is increasing, and we can all profit from the predictable operation of the rule of law. I therefore ask that you support the adoption of the budget bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-12-100	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély.
u2016-05-12-101	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, In his speech, Márius Révész spoke at the meeting of the Social Welfare Committee last week about KSH's 2014 publication, and I would also like to deal with it from a slightly different perspective. According to the government, the figures of the KSH have shown an improvement in poverty indicators over the last few years, and the publication itself says that the overall income situation of Hungarian households improved in 2014. However, this applies only for some indicators, if we look at more data in the longer term, we can see that the situation in the country is still worse than before the crisis, and that the value of many indicators deteriorated significantly under the governance of Fidesz. According to KSH, the income levels of households with children have shown an improving trend in recent years, but it is not possible to go beyond what is described in the publication that, at the greatest income disadvantage, there are still three children and more, as well as single-parent households. The average net income per capita of three and more children was only 60 percent of the national average, and the income of single - parent families was even reduced by 4 percent compared to the previous year. It is important to point out that the proportion of people living in poverty or social exclusion is higher than that of families with children, as my fellow Member said, 31,3 percent, and that single parents have the worst indicator rate, 56 percent. It should also be noted from the point of view of educational reforms how severe poverty is among the uneducated and the low-skilled. In 2014, almost one in every two of those who had completed primary education was poor or excluded, while a quarter of those with secondary education were included in this category. Only one-tenth of those with a higher education degree have been affected.Since 2013, Roma living conditions have been examined in the context of poverty measurement. Among Roma people over 16 years of age, there are three times more than the national average at risk of poverty or social exclusion. We do not know anything about the methodology of data collection in this regard. According to KSH, since 2010, labour incomes have increased their share of total income each year. But is it not behind this that many social benefits have not, for years, increased or even decreased, and the overall level of social income has risen less than that of labour incomes? This suggestion is reinforced by the quote from the study:. The annual amount of unemployment benefits per capita has been steadily reduced in recent years, on the one hand, due to the tightening of the terms and conditions of payment, the reduction of the amount of benefits and the decline in the number of unemployed people.- It is interesting to point out that according to the material, in 2014 the Hungarian households considered the monthly net amount of HUF 114 thousand per person to be necessary for the average livelihood, while the very good level was marked at HUF 210,000 per month. This was when the minimum of living calculated by the HCSO still existed, since then it no longer exists, and the sum of which was set by the Office for this year at HUF 87 351; this amount was sufficient for a scarce living compared to the opinion of the respondents. But we won't know in the future, either, because the minimum life-sum calculation is terminated by the KSH, or we don't see how it's going to be transformed yet. Income inequalities are also reflected in how the country's total income is distributed in the population and among its income fifths. According to this, the share of the top five incomes suddenly increased after 2009. Based on a different study, the material also describes the most striking change in the last eight years as a significant reduction in the weight of the medium layer. So the middle class disappears while the richest continue to grow old, and the poor in poverty or on the edge of it can only vegetate. According to the material, the proportion of people in severe material deprivation has decreased significantly. This is true for the last two years, but if you look at the data before 2010, you can see that in the previous years, the indicator value was lower, and even the figure for 2014, 19.4 percent is still higher than the value that was in 2007, which was then 17.9 percent. One of the most important elements of material deprivation is that 71 percent of the population still couldn't cover an unexpected expenditure in 2014; here the material speaks of 70,000 forints. You know, that means that if a washing machine goes wrong in a family, or if the child suddenly needs to be taken to the hospital and operated or taken to a dentistry, the family can't afford this unexpected expense. The material does not contain any information about the poverty gap, we do not know why. As the relative poverty gap has continued to rise since 2010 until 2013 and has barely decreased by 2014, whether in terms of the overall population or children, this means that the depth of poverty is still much higher than in 2006. There has been a significant increase in poverty among workers. This is also mentioned in the publication, although it does not specify the figures, but it is described that the main reason for the worsening data is that part of the employment expansion in 2014 was due to the extension of public employment. A low wage for public workers with low education levels, their household incomes did not reach the poverty threshold on an annual basis, so according to KSH, the wage for public work is also low. The data also show this about poverty in the workforce. For those over 18 years of age, poverty increased from 6.7 percent in 2013 to 9.3 percent in 2014. But if we look at people aged 18 to 24, so we look at the poverty of young workers, then the growth is truly shocking: in 2013 it was 6.6 percent and in 2014 it rose to 14.2 percent, so there was an increase in employee poverty. According to the publication, Hungary is in a more favourable position than the average in terms of long-term income poverty compared to the EU Member States. However, they do not add that the proportion of people living in persistent poverty, those living in persistent poverty, was 5.7 per cent in 2009 and that this rose to 7.2 per cent in 2014. [[17 .30]] And there is worse data, my fellow Members. This indicator is much higher among children. While the proportion of children living in persistent poverty in 2009 was 9%, the latest figures show 13.4 percent. So more people are living in persistent poverty in Hungary today, and this has all increased during the regency of the Orbán government. Some comments on the publication of the HCSO, because this is very important when we talk about social aspects in the budget. It is interesting how information on the income situation can be distorted. In one particular chapter, attention is drawn to the fact that real earning among the three and more children has increased, and then the publication discusses how wonderful the new tax relief system is. But they don't say a word about how many percent of families with children can use it, and what income bands really benefit from tax relief. And it is only later that they report that the biggest income disadvantage, as I said, is still the three and more children; single-parent households, which means what I said at the beginning, that 60 percent of these households have income as in the average families. In 2013, social protection expenditure accounted for 20.6 percent of GDP in Hungary, 1.5 percentage points less than in 2010. So we can talk about a steady decline. But it is not reported that the highest value in recent years has been in 2008, which amounted to 22.9 percent at the time, which has been decreasing ever since. In fact, this is well below the EU average, which is estimated to be around 28,6 per cent in the EU. So it is clear that the Orbán government is not trying to spend more of GDP on social areas, even though Hungary is supposed to be doing much better. I'd like to give you one more piece of information, which is news. According to Eurostat's latest data, 9,3% of employees lived in poverty last year, which was 6.7 percent in 2014. That wasn't good data either. It is a huge increase because it has jumped to 9.3 percent, and the situation in the EU is worse than that in Romania and Bulgaria. I think that if we look at this budget, we could also say, if we can already use adjectives to say that it is a budget for fraud. You can say here that everything in this country is all right, honourable Members - it is not all right. As long as we spend hundreds of billions in the budget and do not deal with these poverty indicators, one budget cannot be talked about as you have done here in the last two days. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Lajos Korózs applauds.]]
u2016-05-12-102	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Bartos.
u2016-05-12-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few words on an issue which has not yet been mentioned, on measures to protect air quality and improve air quality. There is no question that everyone wants to live in a healthy and clean environment. This is a value the importance of which and the right to do so have also been formulated in our Fundamental Law. At the same time, in our modern, advanced world, there are many factors that threaten this value, health. In many cases, poor air quality is a visible but often invisible source of danger, and unfortunately its adverse effects on health are undisputed. In Hungary, death due to respiratory diseases is associated with a significant increase in the concentration of particulate matter among 15-64 years of age and over 75 years of age. Some regions are more affected by this problem, so Budapest, Pécs, the valley of Sajó and Nyíregyháza should be considered a priority zone. One of the primary objectives of the government is to improve the health of Hungarian people, thus reducing the factors that cause people's diseases. This is where we should mention the fight against smoking, low- sport lifestyles, unhealthy meals and the work to be done to improve air quality. In the latter, the international and EU environments are very inspiring.In 2005, the air quality limit values for small particulate matter in the EU air quality directive are now in force, which are challenging for many EU countries. They are also a challenge to our country. Data in force from 2005 show that overall PM10 pollution has followed a downward trend in recent years, that we meet the requirements on an annual average, but that daily limit values continue to occur in several parts of the country. In 2009, the EU launched infringement proceedings against Hungary in respect of small particles, PM10 pollution, due to inadequate air quality. A significant number of issuers and stakeholders, as well as the complexity of the problem, require a cross-sectoral and inter-sectoral approach and a solution. This is reflected in the draft budget for 2017. But let's look back. A government decision on the sectoral action programme for the reduction of small particulate matter was taken and adopted in 2011 to resolve the situation. The government has also launched a programme to reduce small particle emissions, including the PM10 programme and local air quality plans, which include the necessary measures for the zones concerned. In May 2012, the inter-ministerial committee Pm10 launched an annual progress report. Today, three of the main pollutants cause problems: ozone near the ground, oxides of nitrogen and small particulate matter, i.e. PM10. PM10 measurements are carried out by the National Meteorological Service. OMSZ operates, maintains and develops a terrestrial high atmospheric and remote sensing meteorological measuring, detection, telecommunications and data processing system. The measured data is stored and archived in your database. It also performs the quality management and data centre tasks of the national air pollution measurement network. In order to fulfil its reporting obligations arising from its international contracts, it prepares and maintains data on the state of ambient air quality, an emission inventory for air pollutants. The support to OMSZ will not appear on the PM10 line, but elsewhere, which will amount to nearly HUF 448 million in 2017. The primary PM10 emission source has become the process of burning solid fuel, among which the public's fire is also highlighted. In the transport sector, road transport emissions are decisive, including diesel vehicles. Almost half of PM10 emissions are generated by residential heating. By 2014, the shift from gas to solid biomass resulted in an increasing trend, which has now ceased, and fortunately has stopped. In the light of these, I also consider it important to continue government measures and approach-forming actions to encourage environmentally friendly heating habits in 2017. The emissions of motor vehicles have decreased in recent years due to more environmentally friendly technologies, although the number of vehicles is increasing. Appropriate attention should therefore be paid to measures to encourage environmentally sound modes of transport. The good news is that the amount of the budget for environmental tasks related to road transport increases from HUF 180 million in 2016 to HUF 190 million in 2017. The HUF 10 million increase in revenue comes from the environmental contribution collected by the National Transport Authority. A large part of this amount goes to the Institute for Transport Science, from which it carries out activities in the fields of air cleanliness, R &amp; D, on-board diagnostics, e-mobility support programmes, public awareness programmes such as European mobility week and car-free days, or various cycling programmes. [[17.40]] Indeed, if we are talking about environmentally friendly modes of transport, we need to highlight cycling. But how are we doing in this area? Since 2010, nearly 600 kilometers of bicycle roads have been built, and by 2020, the government plans another 1,500 kilometers. I consider this to be a great achievement. We have also taken the first steps in the field of electricity distribution, the importance of which, in particular, does not need to be justified in relation to PM10. Currently there are more than 600 cars with green registration plates in Hungary and the Jedlik Ányos plan aims to increase this number to 50,000 by 2020. There is a need for awareness-raising programmes in all areas mentioned and not mentioned, but there is no need for effective action by environmental authorities in the areas of prevention, tackling the problem that has occurred and sanctioning. Since the launch of the PM10 programme, a number of measures have been implemented in the transport, industrial, agricultural and residential sectors. Thus, among other things, the bus exchange programme, the creation of low emission zones, the designation of areas protected from freight traffic, the green transformation of the car tax system, the launch of awareness-raising campaigns, the creation, further development of the green investment system, energy modernisation proposals, but also the further development of the air pollution measurement network. These measures have greatly contributed to the improvement of air quality, but it must be said that we have not yet reached the level required by the EU and necessary for the cessation of the infringement procedure. The implementation of the PM10 programme is an essential step for improving air quality, thus protecting the health of citizens and eliminating the illegal status, which will be coordinated by the FM by nearly HUF 700 billion by 2030. The opinion on PM10 received from the European Commission states that, in addition to the measures, reliable estimates should be made of the improvement of air quality, which clearly demonstrates the expected improvement in quality of the intervention concerned. On the basis of this Commission opinion and the experience gained over the past three years, it has become necessary to fully review and adapt the cross-sectoral action programme for reducing small particulate matter. One of the cornerstones of this is the development of a stable air pollution model with pollution emissions data for zones with air quality affected by the infringement. By designing and operating the system, the effects of the planned measures will be clearly identified according to the Commission's needs. A means to develop air quality plans will be created. Based on the Commission's signal, the Ministry of Agriculture, responsible for coordinating the PM10 programme, started to review the PM10 programme in 2016 against the available HUF 54 million heading line and to develop the air pollution model for the air quality zones affected by the infringement. In addition, he has organized awareness campaigns, the Heating Smartly! He targeted all the municipalities with a campaign. However, the task cannot be achieved during a budget cycle. In the 2017 budget, it is appropriate to group the same amount of resources to reduce the concentration of low-metre particulate matter as in 2016. Expenditure related to the reduction of the concentration of small particulate matter is intended to carry out the tasks under the responsibility of the FM and to carry out the measurements, tests and state assessments adopted by the government, as defined in the Inter-sectoral Action Programme for the reduction of PM10, and to monitor the programme, in accordance with the 2011 Government Decision. I submitted an amendment to the 2017 budget bill, in which I proposed an increase in the former article by HUF 30 million, as the HUF 54 million budget for 2016 would be reduced by HUF 30 million to HUF 24 million. I believe that efforts to reduce PM10 and thus improve air quality should continue in the coming year with an intensity similar to that previously, not only because of the implementation of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, as discussed last week, or the sustainable development goals, but also so that a healthy society can be created and maintained and that we move towards an economic and social arrangement that can ensure the well-being of all of us without putting pressure on our environment and endangering our health. That is why I call on my fellow Members to support the budget proposal and the amendment that I have tabled. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-12-104	I now give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli.
u2016-05-12-105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Like my fellow Member, Mónika Bartos, I would also like to share some green ideas about the budget with you. I would like to join with some criticism of what my fellow Member said, since the green plate he mentioned did not necessarily fulfill his expectations. Because it is not certain that a car with a green license plate and indeed a growing number of them on the streets of Budapest or even in the countryside is indeed environmentally friendly. Which car is environmentally friendly and which one is not, it is not only determined how many kilometers it can take by electric drive. Now it is one of the main criteria of the green plate so that it can travel at least 25 kilometres independently with purely electric drive. The city is full, so we meet more and more often with luxury trucks with green plates that can actually deliver this 25 kilometers thanks to their hybrid engine, but by the way, according to their consumption and CO2 emissions, they cannot be called green at all, they only received an electric drive next to the petrol drive, and therefore they have been designated environmentally friendly. In addition, there are cars that do not have electric drives, but, given their overall size, consumption and CO2 emissions, they are more environmentally beneficial than these large luxurious drives. So the situation now seems to have been dealt with by several news portals and newspapers that used to be Slovak, and I don't know what kind of foreign license plates could be tricked and disabled cards, and now there will be luxury cars with Slovak license plates. Just as they cheated with disabled cards at the time, or may still cheat, they will also be free to park and enjoy various discounts, thanks to the hybrid drive the registration tax is only HUF 70,000 instead of HUF 400,000. Unfortunately, they also try to abuse this in all kinds of ways and not use these green plates from an environmental point of view. A change of regulation would be necessary if the Jedlik Ányos plan really increased the number of these cars with green registration plates, it would really improve air quality. The aim, as my colleague Mónika Bartos said, is to make our air healthier, cleaner, less particulate matter, less PM10 concentration, less harmful substances to breathe, not more cars with green plates running on the roads, because the green plate looks very good, but this alone is not a guarantee of environmental protection. In relation to PM10, as regards the particulate matter content, the National Meteorological Service does have a dedicated source, but the PM10 is now only HUF 30 million compared to 54 million last year. This is definitely a reduction, and there is some contradiction in the efforts to improve air quality that the issue of this item will be reduced on this line. [[17.50]] Speaking of environmental protection, we need to talk not only about air quality, but also about several other items that determine the quality and condition of our environment. For example, there are far fewer, much lower amounts in nature conservation proposals this year than last year. And there is no increase in the expenditure of public bodies, offices, or agencies that are intended to protect the environment, either in substance or in any way. Now the Environmental Authority is obviously among the items of the government office, so we can't tell separately how much of this will be spent either on the staff of the Green Authority or on real estate expenditure. However, what is shown separately is either items equal to pennies compared to last year, or at a minimum, increasing with inflation rates, either because of personal expenditure, but it is not enough, and this has also shown in previous years that there is insufficient human resources, personnel in these authorities. Several cases of environmental protection and pollution are constantly emerging which show that if this authority were to be larger, if it were to be able to control larger amounts of material expenditure, it would be possible to detect or even prevent several cases that have been made public through the press in the last few weeks and months. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Here's the waste management system. The new central coordination organisation is now being set up, and in this context we have already explained in the debate that we do not necessarily see why this will make the domestic waste management system more efficient and more economical, which is bleeding from multiple wounds, and it was in practice that this coordinating body would seek to cover losses from the profits of otherwise profitable organisations in loss-making waste management associations. In total, no more money will be put into the system, it will be distributed differently, and there is an additional central organisation that needs to be maintained from budget forints. Thus, no real improvement in the waste management sector can be expected. This would require much more, in our opinion. Water management now belongs to the Ministry of the Interior, and there have been several legislative proposals for water issues before Parliament recently. Here, too, we always say that it is not enough to focus on protection and to spend on flood control, but also to focus on the future, as well as on the development of water retention, irrigation and other water management facilities, to prevent the effects of climate change. After all, water retention or water management will be one of the key issues of the coming decades through the increasingly extreme precipitation distribution. In autumn and spring, most of the annual rainfall falls, and in summer, and in the second half of summer, especially droughts are replaced, and we are still not prepared for this. We do not see the items in the budget that would serve to improve the country's ability to retain water in the longer term, so that, in the longer term, we can develop the necessary infrastructure, whether irrigation channels or water supply, in the form of a bill not so long ago, a week or two ago. So there's plenty more to be done in the field of environmental protection. I think that we would be able to see a budget, at least from this point of view, acceptable from an environmental point of view, which is complexly preparing Hungary for it, or allowing investment and development that would appear as a requirement for European Union requirements, on the one hand, and even for our own domestic legislation, on the other hand, but we cannot do so today, at this moment, because there is insufficient resources and there is, or rather, no European Union funds for that purpose, and we do not devote our domestic budget to it. For example, environmental remediation. In the 1990s, it was already assessed how many potential hazards there were in Hungary, where dangerous industrial plants used to operate, or where dangerous substances, hazardous waste were stored, stored, stored, stored, and where there is no longer an owner, because they are either in liquidation or have long since ceased, and are actually a threat to the drinking water base, to the soil, a threat to the health of those living there. This is in thousands of scale, and a survey was carried out at the time, an action plan, but then the money ran out slowly from the budget, and these investments stopped, but the source of danger is also there. From time to time, a Balmazújváros comes out, or a smelly road comes out, or another dangerous waste dump comes out of nowhere that they either didn't know about or didn't want to know, and it turns out it's been contaminating the environment for years or decades. It would certainly be necessary to begin to eliminate them. This would require much greater resources than the current one, because it will be used for the natural resources available to future generations. Whether it is the drinking water or the soil or the purity of our air. And if a drinking water base is contaminated, it is possible to clean it up with either unrealistic costs that are much higher than the current remedial costs, or it is not possible at all, this is the other version. And we know that our greatest treasure for the future is indeed clean and healthy drinking water and soil, which is becoming less and less available to the growing population in the world. So these things need to be more focused on than making a budget. Although, at the end of the day, we are surprised to see that the current government has become less and less interested in environmental protection since 2010. He said in an interview given by former Secretary of State for Environment Zoltán Illés, that the Prime Minister allegedly said that he was not interested in environmental protection, and that he did not want to hear about it until 2018, because it does not, in fact, bring any money, citations, or with these investments, he or the circle of interests around him. Well, it's very sad if that's what happened. In any case, the signs show this. The actions taken by the government in terms of environmental protection and other large investments all suggest that the Orbán government is not really interested in environmental protection. As we see the institutions continue to degrade, the green background is weakening. First, the independent green wallet ceased to exist, then the independent green ombudsman ceased to exist, then the environmental authority melted into the government office, and then the division of powers took place, and it was not necessarily a professional decision to split the water into two wallets, one of which remained at the Ministry of Agriculture, and the other was transferred to the Ministry of Interior. Thus, environmental protection and water have been fragmented, although there are two very closely linked areas, and there has not been sufficient budgetary resources to ensure that these authorities, whether environmental or water authorities, operate with sufficient efficiency. This will be a critical aspect for the future. All in all, we couldn't support the budget because of this chapter, but it's obviously bleeding from a thousand other wounds. I think that what I have said is a good enough reason that we cannot support it in this form without the adoption of our amendments. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-12-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mr Gábor Varga. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-05-12-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, CHAPTER XXI Three major global challenges of the century are clean drinking water, healthy food and secure energy supply. Our country has great advantages in terms of water and food; I have examined our budget from the point of view of food. In particular, I would like to welcome the Secretary of State, Mr István Lepsényi, who is responsible for economic development and regulation in the Ministry of National Economy, and also for the creation of new industries and the development of industries. [[18.00]] The development of agriculture and the based domestic food processing industry is a key issue in the development of our country. It is essential for the competitiveness, growth, job creation and the ability to preserve the countryside of the Hungarian countryside and the Hungarian economy. It is important for the government to see the sector as a strategic sector. The provision of reliable, healthy and quality food to the population should be done, preferably from domestic sources. At present, the food industry is at a competitive disadvantage compared to other sectors, since so far it has been favoured to support the production of raw materials, which has resulted in capital and income poverty in domestic manufacturing. Unfortunately, to date, our country is characterised by too large exports of raw materials and high value-added imported processed products. Turn will only occur if we produce and export products of higher added value. Typically, in my own narrowest country, in the southern part of Fejér county, South Mezőföld is one of the best agricultural areas, but one of the most neglected in terms of the food industry and manufacturing industry. The basic food factories and facilities that provided this area with the opportunity or privatisation until the change of regime are typically in the interest of foreign multinational companies, currently purchasing raw materials and creating added value, exporting those products and removing the profits from Hungary at the same time. The domestic food industry is facing a double challenge. On the one hand, the recovery of domestic markets is one strategic goal, the discovery of export markets, the development of cost and lasting links. In medium-sized and large companies, the aim is technological development, innovation, to reach the level of international competitors, to exceed them, while in smaller sizes employment, participation in local markets and to play a role in rural life are the most important. There is a need to strengthen conscious consumer behaviour. Consumer, nutritional and food hygiene skills should be started as early as childhood, and it is important to integrate them into primary and secondary school education. I think it is useful to continue and develop school milk, school fruit and school catering, and to add additional costs to the 2017 budget. Ladies and gentlemen, Micro, small and medium-sized enterprises engaged in agricultural activities and food processing can receive support from the HUF 200 billion framework of the rural development programme, while small and medium-sized food processing companies can receive support from the GINOP 100 billion framework. Support is available to large domestic food processing companies from closed sources of applications from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade and the Ministry of National Economy. Reducing the VAT rate for poultry, milk and eggs from basic foods to 5% is a welcome measure in the 2017 budget. On the one hand, it has a positive impact on the sector and on the other, it also serves a social policy purpose, as it leaves more money in its pocket for low-income citizens. I think it is important to mention the situation of dairy producers. Although the VAT reduction will lead to a decrease in retail prices, a substantial increase in the buying-in prices in the dairy sector cannot be expected. In addition to support issues, it is increasingly urgent that producer communities, processing interests and retailers join forces in the dairy sector and in several agricultural processing sectors. Their cooperation is the key to ensuring price stability and their functioning. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to mention further a programme of a million scale in terms of size and support, but if you look at its core activity, it is a very important activity, because if we did not talk about beekeeping, beekeepers and the infertilising, blessed activities of bees, then mankind would indeed be in trouble, according to some calculations. I would therefore like to mention the national bee-keeping programme, for which both the 2016 budget and the 2017 budget proposal provide for HUF 682.5 million. The programme will be co-financed by the central budget and the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund. The objective of the programme is to gradually increase the competitiveness of the bee-keeping sector based on the country's positive natural conditions, to make it effective and to ensure its progressive development. It also has a social function as it strengthens the capacity of the countryside to maintain it and serves the population with healthy, high-quality bee-keeping products. The sensitivity of the beekeeper society to the use of new methods, procedures and tools should be strengthened, as this will enable the income from beekeeping to provide an acceptable livelihood and a source of development for those in the sector. Beekeeping has an important role to play in maintaining ecological balance, preserving biodiversity, beyond economic benefits, through pollination. The development needs are increasingly focused on the means of cost-effective production and compliance with the related food safety requirements. The acquisition of new domestic and export markets can only be achieved by improving the level of processing and by serving warranty and traceability needs. Ladies and gentlemen, The budget bill for 2017 and the government's measures for this year serve the objectives I have said. Please support the bill and ensure its adoption with your votes. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-12-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. Member Lajos Korózs of the MSZP Group has applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-12-109	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr President, I don't usually refer to newspaper articles, and rather I study sociological measurements of scientific workshops, but I would like to quote today's analysis of a portal close to the government. The title reads: "The workers' poverty decided a record last year. Today, almost one in ten employees lives in poverty in Hungary, and public works cannot solve the situation. In short, workers' poverty has risen to a historic peak in Hungary in 2015 and the situation is expected to remain the same this year. According to Eurostat's latest data, 9,3% of employees lived in poverty last year. I would like to stress that Eurostat refers only to the data of the Hungarian Statistical Office. The increase in the minimum wage, which has undoubtedly increased from HUF 105,000 to HUF 111,000 this year, unfortunately did not have the effect of reducing the number of people living in income poverty, the number of people living in labour poverty, but just increasing, all the more so, because this increase proved to be insufficient. This is what I see as a greater income to be able to escape from the poverty of workers, and this draft budget law, which we are facing, is, in my view, not suitable to change this situation. The next year, I'm predicting that it's going to cost more than 10 percent. In yesterday's speech, I referred to the fact that, almost two weeks ago, three weeks ago, a civilian research workshop carried out minimum life surveys in Hungary instead of KSH, with the same methodology that KSH measured these minimum life data for decades. It is well known to everyone that this is a sociological survey based on a food basket, containing more than a hundred product groups by multiplying. This shows that 4 million 152 thousand people are living under the minimum living standards in Hungary today; and if you look at the minimum living value of a single household, it turns out that a single household has to have 88 016 net forints to live in very modest conditions, but at the current level of development of society. So, if we consider this 88 thousand forints a hundred percent, it is obvious that those who bring home the net minimum wage - and this is 1.3 million people, if we look at the statistics of the NAV - and where there is a single earner in households, this means roughly 2 million people, the net minimum wage of 73 815 HUF represents only 84 percent of this minimum salary. [[18.10]] If you look at the minimum wage for public workers, the net minimum wage for public workers last year was 52 638 HUF, and this is the valid figure for this year as it does not increase this year, this is only 60 percent of the minimum wage. As I see the latest statistics, the number of people in public employment exceeds 220,000 people, thus predicting the number of people employed this year. I have to mention it, because I proposed it twice last year - I will not mention pension matters now, because yesterday I dealt with this in detail - that the value of the retirement pension minimum has not increased in the seventh year; yesterday I said it was a shame to even say 28 500 forints. There are only 32 percent of this minimum salary, 73,000 people whose retirement pension is below 50,000 forints, as this is what we proposed last year to raise to 50,000 forints. And if you look at the number of people receiving pension-like benefits, that is 364 thousand people who do not reach pension-like benefits, some kind of benefit is 50,000 forints. I think that the government should work in this area. But they are in a worse position to receive replacement employment support, since after the Orbán government took up the government, after 2010, they had the first task of establishing this replacement employment subsidy at HUF 22 800. You don't have to be a head counter, it's 25-26 percent of the minimum wage. So it is possible to think, though I have repeatedly referred to the minimum value of a single household, that, on the basis of this calculation, a woman with two children alone is more than 189 thousand forints, and that families with two parents and two children have more than 255 thousand forints. Please, unfortunately, the distribution of income in Hungary today is such that almost two thirds of households with wages and incomes do not achieve this income, and unfortunately, due to income shifting and tax policy, yes, in my opinion, there is also a phenomenon in which we should not necessarily be afraid and worry that, say, those living in the lower two income tenths - we call quintiles in sociology - two million people will break away from the majority of society, but, unfortunately, those on top, those in very good mode who can take advantage of all kinds of benefits, have high incomes, they will break away from the majority of society. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I must remember the plight of those working in the social field in the budgetary debate. We have asked for it several times in the last year, but already this year we have proposed that a significant wage increase be made in the social sphere, as there has not been an increase in the salaries of professionals in the social sector for years. I see that the government is not very susceptible to providing professionals in this sector, and there is a very bad trend that we have observed in recent months. It is about the fact that a large number of social professionals are dismissed from their jobs, and in a few weeks or a few months they will be rehired as public workers for 60 to 70 percent of their original salary. I think that this is an unconventional attitude, and that must be stopped. We must remember in this speech about daycare workers, because within the category of social workers, professionals working in the non-graduating nursery sector are in dire straits. I understand that on April, maybe the 25th, there was a consultation between the sectoral strike committee and the wallet. At the time, the negotiating delegation of the Ministry of Human Resources said that they would return to raising wages for non-graduates during the first week of May. As far as I know, it hasn't happened, and I don't see this wage development set up in different chapters of the budget. I would like to emphasise that I have seen the wage development of graduates included in the budget, but not of professionals with secondary education. If you look at the proportions, the number of graduate daycare workers is about 10 percent, so I didn't see the wage development of a large majority, I didn't think I'd discover it in this budget law. Dear House, I have to go to the family tax relief facility. Look, basically, I don't agree with that. When we were in government, we used the tax credit institution, and I am convinced that the tax credit institution helped people with low incomes. This family tax reduction, which will undoubtedly now be extended in the context of the fiscal law for two children, will be more favourable for those with access or access to two children, yet it will result in people with high incomes being able to fully benefit from the tax relief for children and those with lower incomes will only be limited or unable to use it at all. If it is a father who raises, say, three children and the wife cannot work, because she is at home with the third child, and her salary is about HUF 160-170 thousand, then this family can only use a family tax allowance of HUF 53,000 compared to HUF 99 thousand, and in this case almost the same amount stays in the state register or is able to finance the tax refund of the higher incomes. In the event that the father only employed a minimum wage and has three children in the same way, and the mother, let's say, is home with the third child, doesn't usually work for 10-12 hours; hold on, the situation is completely different here, because one third of the potential tax relief can be used by this father, because she can only enforce 36 thousand forints and stays virtually 63 thousand forints in the state register. On the other hand, there is a successful manager who has, say, a million forints' salary, so, let's say, his wife doesn't even have to work anymore, these ladies know two routes, but I don't want to go into detail. Of course, if you have a million HUF salary, you can use the 99 thousand HUF tax allowance for children in full. I mentioned the sociological research carried out by Policy Agenda on the basis of the KSH survey that the minimum income of the two parents' households raising children amounts to HUF 255 thousand. About this is the average gross income in Hungary, but I have just noted to you that almost two thirds of the employees cannot earn the average wage. [[18.20]] In the event that the head of the household earns 247 thousand forints, as the average gross wage in Hungary is now, only 78 thousand forints of this tax credit can be applied, and more than 20 thousand forints remain in the state register. Ladies and gentlemen. Finally, it should be noted that the chapter that deals most with disadvantaged social groups in need of social assistance is included in the Budget Act under the heading of the national family and social policy fund. Two years back and compared to 2017, it is necessary to see that the money in this fund has been reduced year by year: while in 2015 there was HUF 707.9 billion in the budget, for this year, 684 billion in 2016 and only 657 billion in the next year. So there's a significant decrease in this column. If we look at the chapter treatment, but next week, when we turn to the discussion of amendments and the detailed debate in the committees, it is clear that there are 13 forms of care in the national family and social policy fund that have been reduced and only 6 that have increased. So there are more than twice as many forms of care from which money has been taken from this section as it has risen. Life start support is dropping next year. Financial child protection support will be reduced. The money to advance child support will be reduced. There's gonna be a drop, there's still a runaway, there's a mining allowance, there's an agricultural allowance. There will be a decrease in the amount of money allocated to the social tasks of the district offices, with a small amount of money, as this year was set at HUF 70 billion, and next year there will be only HUF 63 billion. I am convinced that this is not because, next year, the government is counting on people who should go to the district offices for benefits after the social security system has been transformed. Support for political rehabilitation will be reduced. I understand that, too, because the people who, in recognition of their revolutionary activity in the '56 period, received some kind of allowance, which is very commendable that we voted for these people at the time, because I myself was a part of that decision, unfortunately, these people are leaving us because they are very old people. But there are other forms of support that also reduce support for the next budget year, such as rent subsidies or the support of diabetics. And on the other hand, I must say that there are pointless items of expenditure that I cannot support, not only with a good heart, but also with some which I find outrageous. I find it outrageous that the government is spending nearly HUF 50 billion in the budget on moving to the Castle and the Castle reconstruction. I do not understand why 22 billion forints should be placed in Minister Rogán's Ministry, not for operation, but for spending. Obviously, we'll be looking at poster woods next year. But there's almost 100 billion forints on Paks II. The Good Lord can't tell me what's going on with the Paks investment now, because, as we can see, my Russian speaking friends have warned me that they read in very prestigious economic papers out in Moscow that the bank with which the Hungarian government concluded the contract and would finance the Paks II investment is on the verge of collapse. Well, let's do it. But I don't really understand why - now they don't call it stadiums anymore, I know - they have 220 billion forints to set up for these institutions called indoor sports facilities. I do not understand that the National Cultural Fund has more than HUF 10 billion set up for its activities. Just yesterday, one of our fellow Members drew the attention of those here to spending almost 80 percent of all the money on his own operation. I think that the creation or operation of an institution which spends 80% of the budget money on its own operation is a general mistake. And I also find it outrageous that the public media will be supported again by more than HUF 70 billion, because obviously there will not be such a good opposition representative who will vote in favour of this, while public media is virtually unwatchable. Even you have to admit that. A man with a good feeling can't connect to it, or if he accidentally connects to it, he's gonna have to turn it off. There is no show for public television that can be offered to anyone with a good heart. Today we see that commercial televisions fulfil the function of public media much more than the Hungarian Television and Duna Television, which can be called public media. Ladies and gentlemen. To conclude, I would just like to say that, and thank you for your attention, we will be using quite a large number of amendments and I would ask you to support them in the committees. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-05-12-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Fidesz Group, Mr Vinnai Győző applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-05-12-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, If you look at the main budget figures, you can see that there is some HUF 18 541 billion on the expenditure side and some HUF 17 375 billion on the revenue side, so the deficit, as the Minister said in his exposé, is 2.4 percent. But why did I say that? I said this because there are additional resources in more areas than last year, because on the expenditure side nearly HUF 2000 billion more resources can be spent than in the last year's budget or in the 2016 budget. We used to say, and I think it stands up, or we're talking about the government's budget for tax cuts and home creation, but in my opinion, education is also the winner of next year's budget, since it's 270 billion forints more than it used to be. I would like to note in brackets that I read in the newspapers that education is a loser of this budget, and that is what the opposition says. Insufficient in mathematics, because if we look at the additional funding from the HUF 1600 billion that comes from education as a whole, we see the composition of the education budget: in public education, we continue to raise the wages of teachers, which economic growth makes possible, this year as well as the 3.1 percent planned for next year. So I would stress that we are not raising wages on credit, but on real economic performance. The second point is safe operation, the safe functioning of schools, which is at the centre of attention. I think in next year's budget, the resources are well designed and that decentralisation, which we all hear about, makes them more flexible and efficient. The budget includes wage increases for higher education workers or teachers, and serious development resources, including EU funds, are also available. So once again: 270 billion is the additional resource shown by the budget, and what I, as a pro-government representative, say - and this is addressed to Agnes Kunhalmi, who said that we are not investing in human capital - that investment in human capital is here, because the system of public education has been strengthened, vocational training has been renewed and transformed. There is a higher education strategy that has been adopted and supported by universities, the Rector's Conference. Debt has been consolidated, for example in the higher education sector, the process of replacing PPP programmes has started. This means that we also support research and scientific work, that Hungary's Government does invest in human capital. [[18.30]] And I would also like to respond to the words of Secretary of State Benő Banai, who said a few hours ago that we should ask the economic operators whether Hungary invests in human capital and transforms it - primarily about vocational training - to give students real, useful knowledge, who can thrive on the labour market, and if they thrive on the labour market, they will live a successful life, and their individual successes will also benefit a larger community, the Hungarian nation. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to talk about vocational training, the renewal of vocational training in terms of the budget, the sources of vocational training, and the transformation of vocational training. The VET system will be launched in its full form on 1 September this year. In the budget, Annex XV is replaced by the following: In the budget of the Ministry of National Economy, at heading 7, we can see that the vocational training centres have a HUF 139 billion expenditure of HUF 172 million. This includes 44 vocational training centres, more than three hundred vocational schools and secondary vocational training centres, and 27 thousand teachers and educators. What does this budget mean? Wage, operation, salary increases and teacher ratings. In fact, there is a line of budgets where HUF 10 billion is basically earmarked for operation as a bonus. So it can be said that, compared to last year, the funding to be spent on vocational training is increasing in the budget of vocational training centres. In addition, the National Vocational Training and Adult Education Office has a budget of nearly HUF 2 billion, which is responsible for improving the content of vocational education and training. What do we mean by content development in renewable vocational training? One of the most important things I have just mentioned is that students leave vocational training institutions with useful knowledge, practice-oriented training, flexible and practice-oriented, and reduce shortages. The freedom of the second profession is included in the VET Act. So if someone at the age of 15 chooses the wrong profession and wants to learn another profession, it's free for him. In fact, you can say - it is not possible to say that this is specifically included in the law - that instead of 21 years, you can participate in daytime training until you are 25 years old. Dear House, In vocational training, we mention dual training, the establishment of practical training places, and companies, industry, service, so those who use student contracts for dual training, are used to establish scholarships. This is also a motivating factor for more people to apply to vocational training. This is the future. The key to Hungary's economic development is whether there are enough skilled workers. I come from a district in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, 2nd constituency - Nyíregyháza and its region, West Szabolcs - where you can see this difference. Large companies have appeared in and around Nyíregyháza, or have been there for years - Michelin, Lego, Continental, and I might add - and today we are talking about the lack of skilled workers, the lack of skilled workers, so we have renewed or renewed vocational training at 24 hours in order to create as many skilled workers as possible. And I also see the other side in that county - in the district of Miklós Simon and in my own district - that there are small settlements, villages where small and medium-sized enterprises or foreign investors do not appear in Hungary, and the only option for the unskilled workforce is to join the public employment. In the county of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg in 2014-15 - data for 2016 are not yet known - some 35-38 thousand people joined the public employment of the 220 thousand that are also known nationwide. So for some people, public employment is the only job opportunity. We have said that instead of aid, we want jobs, and we want more people to be able to move to the competitive sector, the primary labour market. That's what you need skills for. And that requires the employment policy - if I may say a few things about employment policy - which, in my opinion, is based on the creation of more jobs in the competitive sector, the better employment can be. Compared to 2010, when 3 million 750 000 people worked, there are now more than 4 million 250 000 people working, more than 500 thousand people working, and unemployment also dropped significantly, there were 11.8 percent in 2010, and now 6.1 percent. So I can say that we have halved unemployment, half the unemployment rate has fallen. The training of the workforce is also important because it is possible to increase the competitiveness of businesses, strengthen the capacity to innovate, so that Hungary can be strong, so that we can focus on a focused development in the industry and the service sector and reduce territorial disparities. In my opinion, it is in our primary interest to ensure that vocational training works well. Dear House, Since I mentioned that I came from Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County - Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County is basically an agricultural county - let me also tell you in a few sentences about agricultural training. Agricultural training belongs to the Ministry of Agriculture. There are 64 places where secondary agricultural education is carried out, which ensures the professional capacity of the country. About a year ago, Samuel Tessedik developed the agricultural vocational training concept, which aimed at renewing agricultural vocational training, introducing and strengthening the dual training system, and teaching economies play a very important role in practical training. I would just like to say one number: in 2016, 3,500 students have signed a study contract, which is a significant number in the field of agricultural vocational training. New professional qualifications have also emerged, such as the hardworking worker in the food industry, or the family farmer, and the livestock worker in particular. If, at vocational training centres, I said that they are stable and self-employed, then the same can be said for agricultural training. Dear House, The law on the basis of which the budget is based also intends to amend the Act on Vocational Training Contribution, in which it appears that they can receive operating grants from the training part of the National Employment Fund for the operation of schools of state maintainers. This is a very important thing, changing the previous vocational training contribution. Allow me to bring up one more topic very briefly, the Bridge Programme for Vocational Training. We talk a lot about it, and we also expect in the European Union to reduce early school leaving without qualifications. According to Eurostat data, there are some 11.4 percent of those in Hungary who have not completed the eight general or non-skilled, but there are parts in the country where this is 20 percent or more than 20 percent. The opposition is used to attack because it does not understand its essence, what is the essence of the Bridge Programme for Vocational Training. I'll try to make that clear. A student who reaches the age of 15 and has successfully completed a maximum of six primary school courses, so that he has not completed the eight generals, may continue his studies in the VET Bridge programme until the end of the academic year. This is very important, because it can gain primary education and even partial education at the end. This bridge programme has two years of training, and it is a great result that it can be launched in the middle of the year. [[18.40]] Moreover, those who are no longer required to study - the obligation to study is a big debate - can enter the training course up to the age of 23 years, so they can join this Bridge programme even after schooling. The Bridge programme will end with a final examination and will issue a certificate of formal qualifications for students without primary education. In fact, it is very important for these families to receive scholarships. It's an important motivation factor. Dear House, To conclude, I would like to sum up what I have said here on the budget for vocational training - agricultural vocational training and other vocational training - in my view, the net lie on the part of the opposition is that the budget for fraud or dissipation is next year's budget. In my opinion, it is the budget for tax cuts and home creation, and a transparent budget with additional resources, which contains the EU and domestic sources of development, which is particularly well-functioning, which is in front of us, which invests in human capital, which focuses on economic development, which focuses on wage increases, and actually gives us the opportunity to catch up with disadvantaged areas. Please support this budget with all your heart. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-12-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr Zoltán Magyar. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-05-12-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! If I count correctly, I have the opportunity to take part in the seventh budgetary debate, and unfortunately, in general, of course, budgetary debates are taking place in Hungary as is customary, i.e. every year the governing party is saying that this is the best budget in the world, and Hungary has never had a budget so perfectly put together and in one place, and we oppositionists are obviously trying to highlight and attack the more sensitive and weaker points. However, there is one point that I would like to talk about, which, in general, contains constantly deteriorating figures and figures, and, more importantly, is that it proves exactly the opposite processes, as the pro-government representatives have ordered about it, the situation of rural Hungary and the issue of agriculture in general. There is already a serious contradiction in logic between the pro-government and us in terms of how to classify it, how to determine the state of rural Hungary today. They keep coming with GDP, constantly using cosmetic work data, and with a few tens of thousands of farmers who are really doing very well today, while Jobbik's perception of the situation in the countryside is much wider than that. For us agriculture, agriculture does not mean the few tens of thousands of people who are constantly referred to, and who, thank God, are indeed doing well. All I have to do is mention the brutal numbers that came out of the AKG program the other day. I know that this is a European Union resource, and I am only mentioning it in this debate because, for example, in Borsod County, 4 percent of the applicants have received Zonal grants, because they will certainly need to be supplemented by domestic budgetary resources, otherwise I cannot imagine what will happen, for example, to the Tusks, Haris or to any species whose existence, maintenance, reproduction, and achievement of a stable population, has so far been indispensable to the AKG programme. Since these family farmers have now fallen from this European Union opportunity because of your mistake, it is simply unthinkable how families in these areas will survive, have opportunities, and how these species will survive. The second is the situation of the national rural strategy. The programme would expire in 2020, which has not been practically launched, at least not in practice. After the second Orbán government came into play, this strategy was adopted at government level in 2011, but unfortunately they did not have the courage to put this strategy in front of the House after all, because let us not forget that the original plan was to be able to debate it here in the walls of the House. For Jobbik, the strategy was, by the way, acceptable, I must say that it was 80-85 percent consistent with Jobbik's rural policy, with the programmes that we are constantly pushing for. Then, of course, it is no wonder that it did not come before the House, because, as we see the budget, the sums corresponding to the implementation of the objectives of the national rural strategy have not been sacrificed this year either - I will detail this a little later - and, moreover, conflicting processes have started if we can think of nothing else, such as the privatisation of public land, which should have a serious impact on the budget once again, but we will also have to discuss this later. So, overall, I can say that the situation that is in the Hungarian countryside today may cause us to be more disappointed than any other topic, because this was the area where we could expect that, after the change of government in 2010, developments might start at a larger scale and that the countryside would be caught up at a more serious pace. After all, we have seen that during the former MSZP-SZDSZ governments, there was definitely more discrimination in the small-walled areas than they deserved, and there was a communication that Fidesz was still communicating, which suggested, either to the people living there or to us, that perhaps this situation might change. Some of the specific amendments that I have tried to make to this situation, and how I wished or wish to improve in this generally said rural way, I have set out examples of them. In the case of small railways, it is very important to say that there are small-scale areas where small-scale roads, for example, which are neglected but which still exist, could be a major tourist attraction or even economic attraction for a given region, so I would like to make sure that Parliament pays more attention to this and accept, for example, our amendments in this respect. We also need to talk about the Kincsem National Horse Programme, which is perhaps one of the biggest disappointments of the whole sector - but here I am thinking not only of horse breeding, of course, but also of recreation, tourism, horse sports, even horse culture education, therapy and racing, so the entire horse group, if I may say so, of all forms of horse use itself, has been promised major improvements. On 29 February 2012, the government adopted the National Horse Programme, which, by the way, was developed with the profession, and it is an excellent material, I must admit, and we also welcomed its birth. The problem is the practical upload, because, you know, that didn't happen. Some extreme commitments have been made, some major sports complexes have been laid down, and some are already a little further ahead, but progress in all other areas is equal to zero. In fact, in the field of breeding, we hear even serious steps backwards. While we often rightly say that we are a horse nation, and how good it would be if the horse were to go back to their daily life, compared to the neighbouring countries, there are still far fewer people who can ride than in these countries, which is a shocking figure, especially if we consider the positive effects of therapeutic and recreational dust, especially when we look at children. So, as I have already mentioned, it is a great disappointment that we were talking about the launch of horse culture education in 300 schools and then the possibility of riding, compared to this, only the best people today can take their children regularly, let us say, to such places, and then perhaps even form a way of life from this hobby. Here, too, it is very sad for all the players in the sector, because they expected a little more of this by creating and adopting the national cavalry programme, because it has become virtually a clown for the government institution, because it is incomprehensible to us that once such a programme is adopted at the government meeting itself, then how can it be imagined that we will not upload it with content for long and long years. Turning to the farm development program, we also see a steady decline every year. I would also like to increase this amount for the farm development programme a little bit, of course, on the condition that this is spent intelligently, because if the V. district is once again the biggest winner of the farm development programme, as we saw a few years ago, it does not make much sense to increase this amount. [[18.50]] Let us hope that they will spend this money soberer. A fellow government representative has already mentioned the national bee-keeping programme. There is indeed a great need to support this more seriously, because not only is the terrible increase in bee density causing problems, which also has the. Young host programme and many other causes, and perhaps this issue has been pushed a little too far in Hungary, but also the Chinese fake honey is seriously damaging the possibilities of Hungarian beekeepers. We would also expect substantial progress in this, which is related to the budget in the sense that the Nebih must have adequate means to do so, which I have also put forward in another amendment. And this year's frost, which came in the middle of the spring, resulted in most beekeepers who couldn't even roll this year, while in normal years they've been over this for a long time. I have also envisaged additional resources to promote Hungaricums and to manage Hungarian Hungaricums at all, as I can be the only opposition representative to the Hungaricum Commission, which is a great honour and I try to take advantage of these opportunities, but I also find that we are not taking this area seriously enough. I am very pleased that the Hungarikum Committee was born, that the national depositories were born and that the infrastructure of this has been built and that the policy is so actively involved, but I find that if we do not introduce the Hungarikums to ordinary people, we do not reveal the greatest achievements of Hungarians, whether natural or invention, then we cannot expect the real value of Hungarikum as a concept to be fulfilled, and then, in practice, it will result in what I believe we would expect from it in this House. Fish farming is an eternal canopy, and a few thoughts about it. Due to the rapid stock of fish in the seas, there is an increasing emphasis on freshwater fish, and it would be good for our country to shine at least in its old light in the field of nutrition. Overall, this not only creates more jobs and promotes rural survival, but we know that its impact on our health could also be significant. I am very sorry, by the way, that the fish sector has been losing fish for many years now, both in the EU and in Hungary. There are serious opportunities in this, and I hope that we can contribute with this budget to making changes in this. In the case of undivided common property, I do not have to tell my fellow Members what a problem this is. Those who have host hours know very well that about two out of five citizens come to us with such problems, such abuses, suspected or real cases. It would be nice to clarify this issue. This is all the result of the change of regime and the recompensation that has been made in a rather sublime way, but all these years after the so-called change of regime, it would be good to put this issue into perspective. We have been promised that this will happen by 2018, but if only at this rate this task is given a source in the annual budget, we can easily calculate that this will not succeed; moreover, there is also the case of forests, which is a separate story, but there is also a need to move forward. After all, a rather interesting condition is that someone inherits, say, a forest, owns it somewhere, but he can't tell which tree he owns or can't enforce any other rights attached to his property at all. There's also a few thoughts about the breeding of fur animals. I know that in Hungary this is still virtually limited to chinchilla, and that we are almost a world power, but the market conditions have evolved so that we see a serious opportunity in this again, and the food source itself, the feeding of these animals itself, the feeding of these animals would be completely feasible, and for this serious XXI. The technology of the century is already available, and we do not need to be a coastal country to be able to do so in an appropriate capacity. The reason I mention this in such detail is because I am not thinking of serious, large-scale, thousands of motherly mink farms at this time, but it could help a country family in a second job. For example, we have seen examples in Poland of how excellent this can work. We could also talk about the kitchen and garden program, which also deserves support. It would be very important to let children know from kindergarten what conscious nutrition is, how important it is to be able to cultivate your own environment, to recognize the plants, animals that you will then meet on your desk, and to be able to do them properly. It also provides a kind of recreational role, by the way, for someone with a kitchen garden, obviously I don't have to prove it. A few sentences about agricultural secondary schools, too. We talk a lot about the fact that one of the biggest problems of agriculture today, at least as far as human resources are concerned, is that although we have good agricultural universities, of course, there are many problems that could be developed there, but there is a real shortage of professional schools where standards and technical facilities are so low that we cannot expect quality education. Moreover, we often define ourselves as an agricultural country here within the walls of Parliament, so, I think, it deserves much more attention. We talked about milk today. I would certainly be wrong, and I wouldn't be telling the truth if I told you that this was entirely the government's fault. Of course, the dairy crisis is currently a pan-European but even more global problem, which is linked to the Russian crisis, which is linked to declining demand in China, is linked to VAT fraud and, above all, to the fact that the European Union has imposed the milk quota. At the same time, the government has failed to prepare for this period, and its responsibility cannot be avoided here, so in my amendment I propose a complex milk scheme to allow the government to do everything from VAT to advertising Hungarian milk until black milk is filtered out. If we don't do this, and this isn't some kind of opposition scare, we won't be able to consume domestic milk in five years. I would like to refer very briefly to some of the regional amendments, which concern not only agriculture or the food industry, but rather the environment of my own country of origin, my constituency, in some thoughts about the county of Győr-Moson-Sopron. Intersecting water supply is something I might want to mention, and there were serious promises here too. Since the governments of the time did not take any action on the issue of the water supply of the Szigetköz, this bored the people of the island began to sign, they joined together with the county daily paper, and they achieved that we were obliged to debate this issue here in Parliament as well. The situation was perhaps a little different to the fact that, at that time, Secretary of State Elijah was sitting in your ranks yelling at the opposition representatives with his hair and a little bit more moderate with those pro-government representatives who agreed and basically said the same thing I said to the government, with little criticism of doing nothing. We are now at a point where, let us say, this dark green policy is perhaps out of government circles and there is an opportunity for us to take action on this issue, but I do not see any substantial progress in terms of European resources or in the case of the Hungarians, while we are not talking about the launch of Bős-Nagymaros - unfortunately, I am putting this in parentheses - but we are talking about a significant improvement in the quality of life of the inter-islanders by some kind of technical and technical solution. This is linked to a number of other things, as we discussed at the time in the debate, and it seemed to me that my fellow members of the Government shared this opinion at the time. At the road networks, I do not mention all the points that concern this of my amendments, but I have to say that in Hungary we have the second worst road network in Győr-Moson-Sopron County. Many are surprised at this, although this is factual and so, and that is why I am planning to change it, because in order for people living in small towns to have access to services in at least the same quality, public or health or educational services, an improved network of roads is indeed necessary. In conclusion, allow me to mention the meat factory in Kapuvar. This is a painful point, since, let's say, it is extremely suspicious how almost all of our 100-year-old traditional plants have closed in the meat industry in recent years. [[19.00]] Let's face it, let's be honest, it's very clear that it's related to a business circle who was interested in having a Gyula, Pope, Kaposvár, Zalaegerszeg, Kapuvar, Turkszentmiklós slowly, one after the other, in different ways, but it shut down. The Kapuvar Meat Factory is one of the things that no action has been taken to save. The bankrupt made a statement about why he should be saved, because the border is near, and then the Kapuvars go to work in Austria. This is the mentality that we do not consider acceptable, and we want to save this traditional plant, put it into the property of the pig farmers in the area, so that we can then re-start a viable plant, which gives a dominant job in the small town, to produce quality food. Every year I present the possibility of a museum of 56 in Mosonmagyaróvár. It's one of the most emblematic settlements of terror in '56, where a terrible machine gunfire has claimed a great deal of blood. And I feel that it would be worthy of the settlement of a museum of '56. Right now, only a few cop trees remind us of what happened there. I have only had time for a few amendments, and I recommend these to you, and I ask you to consider them, because I believe that all of them are amendments that should be agreed upon by all my good fellow Members. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-12-114	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Imre Ritter, a minority advocate. Here you go, Mr. Speaker.
u2016-05-12-115	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Mr President, Dear Parliament, Since 8:00 a.m. yesterday morning, with the exception of some late-night comments, I had the pleasure of listening to virtually every comment. If I want to address the ethnic aspects of these, fortunately, I can do it quite easily. After all, if I count correctly, there were six comments that affected minority issues to a lesser or greater extent. These, if there were figures and facts, were realistic, if they were qualified, appreciated, they were, I think, positive. I thank the speakers and all the Members who have commented so far that, like the last two years, the subject of nationalities in Hungary has not been included in the current daily political debate. I have already announced yesterday, President Fuzik also said that the 2016 draft budget bill was submitted to Parliament without any increase in those nationalities in Hungary. In terms of number accuracy, yes, there were 38.5 million increases for two ethnic theatres and two research institutions in support of institutions maintained by national authorities in the 20/57 title order, but in the 20/56 title order, which also includes individual ethnicity support frameworks, this was deducted. In practice, the four institutions supported by an individual decision in 2016 will be planned in 2017. Yesterday, I said that I was hoping that by tonight, the smoke might be up and I could give you final numbers. The negotiations have not yet been completely concluded, but I would like to mention what is certain. In view of the fact that our demands have not been included in the bill, the committee of nationalities will, of course, submit an amendment to the extent and amount that has been discussed in advance with both the government and the factions and the professional wallets, and in which there is full agreement. According to the current state of play, what I can say for sure is that the HUF 676.5 million increase to the 2016 base, the HUF 8 billion to 10.8 million in the 2017 budget, is certain that there will be an increase in the amendment. This affects three areas. The first area is the tender framework for civil nationality organisations and the individual nationality framework. I will also mention a few sentences on the issue of proposals and regulatory issues later. The other major area is general and media support for national ethnic authorities. Here there will be an increase of HUF 176.4 million in the 13 national minority self-governments and the media, which corresponds to an increase of 11 percent. As well as the institutions maintained by national ethnic authorities, 221.7 million, this corresponds to an increase of 22.8 percent. I would like to stress that national minority authorities and their institutions did not receive any increase in support in 2016, in addition to an 18 million Polish correction, to be precise here too. In view of the fact that in 2016 all 13 national minority self-governments had a five-year retrospective audit by the Court of Auditors, and we wanted to wait for the State Court of Auditors' reports and examine them, taking into account the findings made in them, we made the corrections we proposed in a uniform manner. The third area, where there is a minimum amendment, concerns local minority self-governments. I have already said here yesterday that, in the last two years, the general operating support of local national authorities, the municipal and county national authorities, has been increased three times over the last two years, so we have not proposed any increase in support. However, here, too, I would like to point out that it is very important that we move forward on regulatory issues in this area. The task-based, or perhaps more fortunate, would be to say that we proposed a 5% increase on differentiated support, which is HUF 74.4 million. The main reason for this is that it would be used here to compensate for additional accounting tasks. These three areas cover the proposed amendment of HUF 676.5 million. This means an increase of 8.4 percent compared to the base. It is not a question of the 2017 Finance Act, but it must be mentioned and discussed together that, in the preliminary negotiations, a compromise solution has been reached that, in order to invest, renovate and in the case of potential applications, there will be a proposal for an amendment of HUF 400 million, not in the 2017 Budget Act, but in the amendment of the current 2016 Budget Act. Of course, it would have been luckier in the Budget Act No. 17 because then this will be planned, but obviously we will not push any opportunities away from ourselves. Here I would like to highlight, at least for a sentence, what Zoltán Demeter has already mentioned today, that we are now there after very positive changes in recent years, that there are now 110 institutions, in the majority of them there is a public educational institution in the maintenance of minority self-governments, 74 in the maintenance of national minority self-governments, 35 in local minority self-governments and 1 in the association of minority self-governments. As of 1 September, at least 12 local minority self-governments will take over institutions and public education institutions with further institutional takeovers that have already been decided. [[19.10]] These are kindergartens, kindergartens, primary schools, secondary schools, and in order to show only the magnitude, the data on children on 1 September will be accurate, but tens of thousands of children of nationality will receive ethnic education in a kindergarten, primary school and secondary school that is maintained by the national minority government in several cases. One of our top priorities, therefore, is to ensure that these institutions are able to invest and renovate. In this connection, I would also like to point out that, while almost a decisive majority of national minority support has been in operation by 2014, 35-40 percent of the national minority support needs are now going to invest and renovate in 2015-16-17 and thus to establish our future. With regard to regulatory issues, as I have said, I do not wish to go into the political part of the fact that the early, spring adoption of the budget law is regular, not regular, good, not good. I would just like to indicate that the spring adoption of the Budget Act will allow applications previously issued in mid-December, when the 30 days were during advent, Christmas, New Year's Eve, winter break, which was an impossible period... - now in mid-October the EMMI will decide until mid-December, the grant contracts can be completed in January, and all the grants will be paid at the beginning of February. This, in order to know in advance how much we get and how much we can plan to do, will be at least as much progress in terms of nationality as we can numerically increase frameworks. Thank you so much for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit!
u2016-05-12-116	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. You have two minutes of time left for today. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mr László Kucsák. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-05-12-117	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, My fellow Members and the honourable people present should be allowed to thank me in advance for sharing some thoughts with the honourable people in the context of the 2017 draft budget in the context of the public education area. In this area, it is a priority to apply the principle of access to quality education for all, social solidarity, equity and education to promote the development of the economy and the improvement of quality of life. The public policy objective is the responsibility of the State in education, building on what is stated in the Fundamental Law. On this basis, a number of tasks should be carried out in 2017 to support public participation in the maintenance of public education institutions, the full implementation of the teacher's salary promotion system, and the teacher's II. and the qualification of master educators, the upward extension of faith and ethics education to higher grades, and the extension of the provision of free textbooks to further years. The continuous review of the legislation governing the national public education system, monitoring and analysis of its impact on the functioning of the system, and the exploitation of practical experience are also priorities, which must be subject to budgetary conditions. Let me be the first to talk about an area, a very important area, which is not the subject of state reservations, but which is crucial, and this is the issue of kindergartens and kindergartens. This is the main task of the municipalities in relation to public education. In 2017, as in 2016, the State will provide four elements of funding under the budget for the provision of kindergarten care. Average wage support is granted on the basis of the number of teachers and directly assisting educators recognised on the basis of legal requirements. Additional support is provided for additional expenditure resulting from the qualification of kindergarten teachers on the basis of their number, kindergarten management support for the purchase of non-professional workers' wages and professional equipment of the institution, and for the transport of incoming children are also provided to the municipalities concerned. Then let me move to the state institution-keeping area. In the context of the area of public institution maintenance, the expenditure allocation foreseen in the 2017 budget, which has already been mentioned by my fellow Members, is HUF 540 639,8 million, i.e. more than 540 billion. In addition to its duties as an employer and other staff, it carries out national competence for the institutions to carry out the administrative tasks of teaching, operating, purchasing, management and development tasks, which also cover the organisation of the day-to-day life of the institutions. This appropriation is intended to cover the salaries and contributions of teachers of public education institutions maintained by the State and staff assisting in pedagogical work and technical staff, including the additional resources for 2017 for the full implementation of the pedagogical career model from 2013 to 2018, including the salary increase from the ascending system in September 2016 and the fractional annual amount of the additional wage increase from September 2017. In addition: expenditure in rem directly linked to education and training, supporting professional activities, and operating expenditure of institutions operated by the public institution maintainer, directly assisting teachers in educational work, on the basis of a salary table in accordance with Annex 7 to the National Public Education Act, from September 2016 the resources necessary for the reclassification of the teacher into category I, and the expenditure related to the top-up provision of remuneration for free textbooks, which will provide free textbooks for the entire Grades 1 to 5. In comparison to the 2016 base forecast, the following reductions result in an increase. The surplus resulting from the scheduled introduction of the teacher career path is HUF 12 692.8 million, the additional support due to the ratings of the teacher career in 2016, HUF 7457.1 million, the surplus linked to the upward payment system for free textbooks, HUF 972.6 million, the surplus necessary for the balanced task of the public institution maintainer, with which the government provides the stable budgetary background necessary for the unloadable and continuous provision of the public education institution support system, which is HUF 77 100 million. The teacher's surplus directly linked to the promotion system is HUF 205 million. Teachers in grade I who are retired less than seven years old shall automatically be exempt from the qualification procedure by teacher II. will be graded, resulting in a surplus of HUF 3300 million. [[19.20]] The overtime required to fill the outdated working hours of master educators is HUF 155.4 million. The additional wage burden due to the need for a lack of status from the educational institution and the pedagogical licence system is HUF 3800 million. The draft budget shows that there are also other educational sources, educational lines, such as the heading Human Service and Operating Support for Public Education, which was HUF 166 016.4 million in 2016, which will increase to HUF 189 859,2 million in 2017. Compared to the 2016 base forecast, the following findings have resulted in an increase in the following categories: pedagogical careers, non-public human service providers, the extra HUF 3720.6 million resulting from the scheduled introduction; educational careers, non-public human service providers, rating surplus HUF 1701.4 million; surplus related to the top-up provision of free textbooks; human service for public education and operating support HUF 17 000 million. The surplus of educator-educating teachers directly linked to the promotion system is HUF 93.4 million - this also applies to non-public human service providers. Teachers in grade I who have been retired for less than seven years are automatically exempt from the qualification procedure by educator II. they are graded, the resulting surplus is HUF 1050 million. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts and other experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings There are 58 such agreements currently in force, by the way. Furthermore, such an item is also to support the special tasks of public education, as well as the amount allocated to the national talent programme, the support of professional teaching management, IT tasks, additional support for small numbers of faith and ethics education, and it is very important to support the Erzsébet programme, which included HUF 4405.8 million as an appropriation in 2016, according to the proposal in 2017. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. Allow me to make a brief mention of the resources that are to be announced and, in part, already after publication, which will also help in the field of education, including in the field of public education. These are EFOP constructions. On public education schemes to be launched in 2014-16 years, 1037/2016 laying down the annual development framework for the operational programme for the development of human resources. It has a government decision. For the 2014-2020 programming period, 272/2014 on the rules for the use of certain EU funds. Government decree 44. In accordance with Article 4 of the Act, the annual development framework for a given year may be amended once a quarter. The Government's decision sets out the objectives for which such resources can be sought and applied under what priorities. For example, priority 3 on increasing knowledge capital, which includes, among other things, support for early childhood education, reduction of early school leaving, support for institutions at risk of early school leaving, institutional support for early childhood education and a number of other great goals. The next priority is investment in infrastructure for increasing knowledge capital, priority 4, which includes, among other things, infrastructure improvements improving physical activity, standards for improving physical activity infrastructural development, infrastructure development of public education institutions, strengthening the role of public education in supporting public education and other objectives, all of which are also intended to help and support education. As a priority project, it is perhaps very important to mention the important role played by the operational programme for environmental and energy efficiency, in short, by the European Commission. The annual development framework for the Environment and Energy Efficiency Operational Programme is also decided or decided by a Government Decree and improvements to public education institutions will be made in priority 5 on the use of renewable energy sources, covering both the developed Central Hungary region and the less developed regions. This is also very important, and allow me to briefly say that in my residence, the capital is XVIII. In the past period, too, KEOP, not KEOP but KEOP, has been running for similar purposes - in the last few years, some 1.5 billion developments have been made in social institutions, crèches, for example, in many kindergartens and many primary schools, which all show how great these forints can be used here in Pestszentlőrincen and Pestszentimrén and in many other settlements of the country. It is therefore important that these COHEP resources are also available, as is very important what my fellow Members mentioned earlier - and this is also included in the 2017 budget proposal - that resources are also available for various capacity-building purposes. Here, too, I can give you an example of my narrower environment: a few years ago we managed to implement a kindergarten expansion programme in Pestszentimre, and we can already see that thanks to the government's family policy measures, the introduction and launch of the family's home-building discount, seeing the great interest now, it is also apparent that we are expected to have additional capacity-building investments in kindergarten, kindergarten and school areas in the coming years. I wanted to share this with you, also with the prominent representatives of the government, the Ministry of National Economy, to whom, by the way, I have taken the liberty of sending our suggestions, suggestions and requests. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear fellow Members, To sum up, if we observe and look at the area of educational activities and services in the 2017 draft budget, the surplus is HUF 270.3 billion in total. If we look at this area of public education, we can say that the surplus of public education is 130,7 billion compared to the previous and 2016 year, of which there will be 105,7 billion more for public maintenance, and for other public education purposes - such as faith and moral education and textbook support, support for the National Faculty of Education, support for the French Lyceum Foundation of Budapest, human services and operating grants for public education, and so on - 25 billion more, and 25 billion more for vocational training. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Presents, I thank you for your excellent attention and acceptance of the draft budget for 2017. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[19.30]]
u2016-05-12-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Jobbik Group, Member Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of Parliament, has applied for a speech. Here you go, Mr. Vice President. You have the floor.
u2016-05-12-119	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I submitted 335 amendments to the budget this year. Obviously, in the absence of time, I will not be able to talk about all of them now, but I must highlight some of them, which are important issues for Jobbik and for one or two of my constituencies, I would also like to briefly mention and draw attention to this, the Ministry of National Economy. The first is a matter of retirement. We know that during the past period, both under the MSZP and Fidesz, there have been serious attacks on the pension system and those who are approaching the pension. There has been only one exception to this in the last eight years when Fidesz introduced women to retire after 40 years of employment, so that, by the way, they can count on eight years of child rearing, so they can retire even after 32 years of concrete employment, but otherwise there are even better rules and smaller side rules in this draft. Jobbik believes that in today's demographic situation, in today's economic situation, it would be very important for men to have this opportunity, given by the Hungarian state. We have carried out a survey, a very serious survey, we have paid very little money for it, how the population itself feels about this issue, so that men, if they wish, can do so to retire after 40 years of hard work. 76 percent responded by drawing on thousands of people to support men's ability to retire after 40 years of employment if they wanted to. Believe me, one of the surprises in this survey was that 65 percent of the 20-29 - year - olds supported this proposal, even though they were still in the same period. I must add that I was very pleased with this, because it seems that there is a serious solidarity between young people and their parents, because this is exactly the age group who sees their 50-60-year-old parents slaving, how they have three surgeries, let's say, spinal surgery, and yet has to do hard physical work, because otherwise they will starve to death or they will not even be able to receive aid slowly in the current system. But let's not forget the negative things they've done together, separately. On the one hand, we know that the 13th month pension has been taken away by the MSZP, from 62 to 65 years in Hungary, and then you, my fellow Members of the Fidesz, who have abolished the early retirement system, which is the uglyness of the world, I have to add, because there is no such place in the world for everyone to retire at the age of 65, no matter what work they do. But you still feel that, at the age of 64, a rescue worker will be able to easily bring the 120-pound patient off the fourth floor of the gurney, and such simple work can obviously be done. It's a catastrophic thought, but they've done it, your soul on it, what the consequences will be in the coming period. We know that the HUF 3000 billion of private pension funds have been transferred to other areas and not to the pension area, and we know that it has gone to the bottomless well of public debt, to MOL 500 billion, and I wouldn't put it further, and that is painful because it is HUF 3000 billion. If you didn't want him to retire and were meant to pay the pension, you took him away from the people, if it had been spent on job creation at least immediately, 3000 billion forints, please! This cannot be said enough, compared with almost nothing European Union funding, it can be said over the course of a year or two that it would have given us jobs, and indeed, hundreds of thousands of people could have worked by getting richer by means of pensioners and this pension fund. So this might not have been something to support, but it certainly would have been a step to think about at the time. I would also like to mention the abolition of pension contributions, the abolition of pension contributions paid by employers, which may have been the biggest fraud, since nearly HUF 2000 billion - or more than HUF 2000 billion - has been transferred to an area that has become a tax on benefits, which means that the government can spend it anywhere, but does not have to spend it on pensions. And that's what's happening anyway, because it's always nice to get 100-200 billion at the moment, which, by the way, if there were any pension contributions left, then it couldn't be put into other areas, maybe it would pile up if it didn't have to be paid. At the moment, if we add 24 percent of the social contribution tax - since it was 27 percent but 24 percent of the pension contribution - plus the pension contributions paid by 10 percent employers, then we see that we would get an absolute positive balance in the pension fund, because we do not have to pay that much at the moment. In fact, if the pension system remains as it is at the moment and no changes are made, the fact is that, on the basis of these pension payments, we would continue to close with a surplus for a long, long period of time. Of course, assuming that there will be a 3-percent real wage increase in Hungary in the longer term - we think it will be much bigger than that, I have to add - and, let's say, with a 2-percent inflation, we even made a nice diagram, which I will just give to Mr. State Secretary as a little annex, if he is this close to me anyway. Well, the point is that we have tabled a new amendment to this, and we would like the government to finally think that if 76 percent of the population think so, then maybe there is something here. Not to mention how much pain this is causing people and how much extra revenue would be added to the budget, or much money should not be spent on such things as the Public Works Programme. After all, at the moment there are tens of thousands of people in the public works programme, about 50-60 thousand people, who, if this system were to work, would receive a pension, and not the peak of his career would be that after forty or a few years of employment he would have to work as a public worker for 50 thousand forints, because after 40 years, Hungarian men would get this in Hungary, whether it be the bus driver or anyone else. I was in a place where I worked with public workers the other day, and 5 out of 16 public workers were also bus drivers, just to mention, who would receive a pension based on this program, which might be a little more. Unfortunately, a little more than 50,000 forints, I have to add, but as you can see, there would already be a significant saving amount, and then I didn't tell you that young people would be able to take a position if older people retired. So there are many, many things that I have already said in the walls of this House, and which is worth considering at any time, converting to concrete amounts of money. After all, the shame, the humiliation, which is now worth hundreds of thousands of men in Hungary, is not worthy of Hungary, is not worthy of Hungarian people. Have the opportunity for older families to spend a couple of years together, because at the moment, I'll just give you an example, if you go to work at 17, a man will have to work until he is 65, so you have to work half a century - half a century short of two years - half a century, I'll say just one more time, while your wife, if you went to work at 17, she could probably retire eight years earlier, and that eight years by spending alone, or you can't really create a program, you can't live together and have a peaceful retirement, that's a very long time. This is not what retired men and retired ladies deserve, nor do they mate to always find a wreck when they come home from these work at the age of 60 or a few. Well, that's one of the important issues I wanted to discuss. The other very briefly: we also proposed an increase in the care fee. This is our old comma horse, for we know well what kind of sacrifice social work is done by those who care for their parents, children, and relatives at home. At the moment, the support system has changed a little bit, and last year, before last year, the amount of support has increased from 28 thousand to 31 thousand HUF hard, but we would definitely like to give a much higher amount of at least 45 thousand HUF for the care fee. [[19.40]] I would just like to point out that if someone gets into an institution because they cannot take care of their relatives, it will cost the Hungarian State much more than that. It starts at a minimum of 60-70 thousand forints, let's say, in a boarding facility, if an elderly person was brought in, the normative of what the Hungarian state gives, so we would be saving money if these people were provided at home in a family circle. So it could also be about savings here. This should not be interpreted as expenditure, but rather as savings in many cases. The third social issue is the issue of family allowances. We have also proposed this. We've been saying for years that the family allowance system has to be adapted. The picantria of the case is that John Lazarus announced that the family allowance would be raised. This was already a case, and hundreds of thousands of people across the country have already begun to rejoice that the situation is changing. Then it turned out that the writer was a bad writer, and there was a family tax reduction. But we would have liked it if that had happened, but I have to add - by transforming the family allowance system. The Jobbik's very important program, I would be very, very happy if Fidesz could take this into account, so that, of course, in the ascending system, not in the case of children who have already been born, there is a family allowance up to three children, there is a higher amount than the current one, and I must add this, and after the fourth child it should be converted into a further tax discount. We would like to put such a family model or such an incentive into the system, because there are people who still regard family allowance as a source of income that can be consumed in the pub or spent anywhere else or on chips or other things, and I'm not talking about drugs or other things. Obviously, we do not want to strengthen this trend either, which is why we would like to have this idea, which we have been saying for a long time, and we would be glad that this could finally be a government commitment. I would like to talk about two more local issues, but one is not a local issue at all, because this is the issue of asbestos. In my election district, there was now an asbestos removal, because there was one of the asbestos factories in Hungary. But that was a partial solution. The settlements of Lőrinci and its surroundings, Selyp, and I could tell you more about the settlements there, unfortunately in seriously contaminated asbestos pollution. Back in the day, workers at the asbestos factory had no idea at all what it meant to work with asbestos. They were not enlightened and were not told what that meant. Well, please, I have here the resolution of the public health administration of the Heves County Government Office, which basically shows one thing that mesotelioma, a type of tumor, is extremely widespread in this area. Obviously, it spread for a reason, because many people here have been sick because of asbestos contamination. The story was so irresponsible that asbestos, a carpet of asbestos, was often laid in the tent at a wedding, which was not even a knitted asbestos, and the locals were dancing on it. You can imagine what asbestos contamination was the result of such a wedding. I don't even want to mention these things. But that's why it's important for everyone who's sitting here right now and maybe looking around their own neighborhood to see how many rooftop houses they see in their neighborhood. I'm sure he'll find one. Please, it is these rooftops that represent asbestos contamination for everyone, for neighbours 3-4-5, and that is why we would like to create a fund - and this was already a proposal for a decision, and even if we have not received a complete rejection, but I do not think that it has come to this point that the government is aware that it is an important issue that we should take action and that this asbestos contamination should be eliminated at national level, and that we would like to establish a financial fund - so that we will no longer have to fear what is now happening in Lorinci, that family fathers will die and that two or three children will be left behind. And they don't get compensation anyway, which is why we have a terrible struggle to pursue at the moment. And by the way, this question applies not only to my area, but also to the area of Nyergesújfalu, where asbestos dust takes off from the sidewalk in many cases. So I think this is a very important environmental issue, which, as I said, actually concerns all of us. Finally, it is a last local, but also not just a local issue, because perhaps everyone who is here has already been to the Upper Matra, the High Matra, and it is due to the fact that a point in the country where there really is no particulate matter can meet the cleanest air, and in the summer in the 40-degree heat you can enjoy the summer in a pleasant 30-32-degree heat, if any. In winter, in the last three years only snow-related quantities exist in the High Mátra, there are ski slopes, thank God. Well, the High-Mátra is also 100 kilometers away from Budapest, it would be a priority tourist area if you could get there so easily, please. Because here the usual road problem arises, only here to such an extent that I only had two acquaintances in the High Matra in the last six months, who had a flat tire because of the state of the roads there. Now, please, Mátraszentim, because this is the area we are talking about, and the villages and resorts with him in the administration, Gatyato, currently the 40th most visited settlement in the country. Thanks to its gifts, there would otherwise have been the opportunity for tourism to rise to a much higher rank, and also to develop, thank God, once again, we know that in the Kádár system, when the borders were closed, there was a huge life, and then, thanks to the open borders, everyone went everywhere and looked at European landscapes, but perhaps it makes sense that if there were a normal way to be built and the crowds of tourists would not be afraid to go to the High Mátra, this mountain region, then there might be fewer people going to the Highlands, Austria. And the money that many people spend there, some of it, even if it was just a fraction of it, a few billion, would stay here in the High-Matra area, where, by the way, as I said, thank God, hotels are being built and the area is improving, so this money they'd spend on renovating the road would pay off very quickly, please. From then on, the income left by the Hungarian people in Hungary, in the High-Mátra Mountains could obviously be used for other areas or even for the development of other roads. So summa summarum, there are many ways to improve everywhere in Hungary, it is obvious, this is not a question, I am only highlighting this area because it will pay off here very soon, economically very soon, if it is possible to get to the High Matra on normal roads, and there are mainly Hungarian guests, but maybe after a while the foreign guests will also be able to make more appearances and spend their money. I ask the economic wallet to consider these, and the Fidesz faction should also consider which amendments it supports. Out of 335, if you support 5-6, I'm sure I'll be pleased. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-12-120	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. State Secretary Péter Benő Banai asked for the floor from the government. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-12-121	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. With regard to Mr. Messenger's suggestions, allow me to argue with the claim that the government operating after 2010 would face pensioners in any way and would have reduced pensions. In a few points, let me say the measures that have been taken so far. First, on a proposal from the Government, the Parliament laid down in the Fundamental Law that the real value of old-age pensions must be preserved. Secondly, the increases in recent years have resulted in pensions preserving their real value and even increasing the real value of pensions. Third, private pension fund items. After the economic crisis, many have found that private pension fund investments previously believed to be safe can not only generate returns but also lead to serious losses. If we remember the activity of private pension funds, in many cases we have seen very serious negatives. This would have led to the fact that persons remaining in the private pension fund would not have reached a significant part of the amount as if they had not been members of the private pension fund. [[19.50]] This is why the possibility of withdrawal has been opened and, as regards the nature of the private pension funds, I must say that private pension funds' assets have not increased from their own savings, but have been redirected to the private pension fund by means of a mandatory amendment, previously paid into the social security system. With regard to the withdrawal, I think that all of them have withdrawn from the pension security provided for in the Fundamental Law and, on the other hand, the amount referred to by the Member of the State in relation to the withdrawal has helped to ensure the stability of the pension fund in 2011, and the rest has, as the notary said, financed the debt reduction.
u2016-05-12-122	My apologies, Mr. Notary, Mr. Vice President.
u2016-05-12-123	Sorry, Mr. Vice President. Excuse me, Mr. Vice President. Thank you. As far as early pensions are concerned, I think one aspect should be considered. Based on international examples, the proportion of people receiving different early retirement or invalidity pensions in Hungary was much higher than that of those in neighbouring countries. This also shows that there was probably a lot of abuse. [[Tamás Sneider: That's right.]] And if Mr Vice-President agrees, it should also be pointed out whether it is fair to the majority society that we have financed benefits from his payments and pension payments that those concerned may not have been entitled to. Let me give you a personal example. I was in a long-distance race myself with a 40-year-old pensioner who got himself killed for health reasons. I don't think that's okay. In my opinion, the government has poured clear water, looking at who is really entitled to such care for health reasons, their care is guaranteed, it has an index of inflation, and there are no doubt that there are some who have found out that they are no longer entitled to those benefits. Health aspects have been taken into account by the government and should be taken into account in the future, and I fully agree with Mr Vice-President. Finally, I would like to draw attention to two small things, which is a small item, not from the perspective of the stakeholders, but from the whole of the pension system, compared to pension expenditure: the amount of the care fee will increase by 5 per cent under the draft budget for next year, so the increase mentioned by the Vice-President is set out in the draft by 5 per cent. What is not small, but less than HUF 3000 billion of pension expenditure, is a HUF 70 billion item for road renewal in the 2016 budget. I do not know which roads can be renovated specifically, but I repeat, with the amendment of the budget, significant resources are also available for road renewal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-12-124	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. At the moment, I look at my monitor, there are seven more people waiting to speak, and there are 77 minutes at the disposal of the governing parties, so I ask all speakers to keep this in mind, that all those who are waiting for a speech should not be in such an unfair position that they cannot finally speak in the absence of time. First of the Fidesz Group, I give the floor to Mr János Pócs. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-12-125	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, As a member of the Agriculture Committee, I travel to Budapest every day, and I find it satisfying to see that the border is beautiful in Jászság, as in any area of the country. Believe me, this is not just due to the rain of May, but rather due to an approach that we say does not cost anything, but it is worth a lot, just like the rain of May at this time in the border. When we talk about the fact that the government represents a different approach in the field of Hungarian agriculture, please remember that at the time of accession to the EU, the government of that time proclaimed that Hungary could be the pantry of the European Union. Indeed, thanks to its territorial and climatic potential, Hungary could have been the pantry of the European Union. But they were a bad attitude. The previous government represented an approach that unleashed multi-stores on us, thereby destroying internal consumption. In all respects, it served the interests of the European Union, if necessary, it destroyed Hungarian agriculture, closed the Hungarian sugar factories at such a level that it could not even be restarted. If somewhere, in agriculture, it is especially true that a tree can be cut down in a minute or two, and it takes many years to grow it. These changes have taken place in Hungarian agriculture over the last few years. Initiating the program, the farm program, the Hungarian land for Hungarian farmers! It is a programme, and believe me, this approach, this farming and this budget, the budget of the last few years has contributed to the fact that it is good to travel through Hungary, to look at the rich border, and it is good to experience in all sorts of programmes that young people also undertake agriculture. That is why I would like to draw attention to some aspects of the negotiations on the 2017 agricultural budget. After all, the budget has a number of key objectives, which aim, on the one hand, to keep Hungarian agriculture on the growth path, to increase the economic power of the sector, and, on the other hand, to improve the conditions for the quality and use of agricultural products this year as well. Therefore, the main objective is to support Hungarian small and medium-sized estates, which the government has tried to implement with a wide range of measures. At the level of mention alone, I note that, from a budgetary point of view, subsidies flowing into our country along the EU's common agricultural policy are the most important source, which is already allocated according to the new procedure compared to 2007. At the same time, subsidies from national sources are also not negligible, whose system is intended primarily to help small and medium-sized agricultural enterprises in livestock production, in the hand labour-intensive crop and gardening sectors. More jobs in agriculture! The additional resources provided under the programme will allow for the transitional national aid already issued this year; the livestock-related items, which will allow the payment of the maximum allowed by the European Commission in 2017. In addition, this year, as in last year, an increased budget is available for nearly HUF 80 billion for mother cows, fattened bulls, ewes, and extensive cattle farming and dairy production. In addition, support for the pig and poultry sectors not receiving EU funding and support for animal health measures will be increased. On the basis of the Government's decision, more than HUF 475 billion should be spent on national aid by 2020. Taking into account the amounts of support foreseen in the 2017 budget, we are already at more than HUF 230 billion. By the end of next year, this amount of extra support will arrive in agriculture, and thanks to the stability of the Hungarian economy. Ladies and gentlemen, The genre of budgetary debate is that you can always ask for more. It is always possible to say a greater number, and today we can say that it is natural for our fellow opposition Members to do so, in fact, almost their task. At the same time, it is appropriate to go ahead with criticism in this area and note that we are now able to provide farmers with a three-fold amount compared to the aid granted by socialist governments, such as animal welfare subsidies before 2010. I think it is important to mention that the government supports the people living on the farm to the same extent as in previous years. The farm development program is a success. This is one of the sources from which it is typically never possible to provide enough, but in every way it can be said that it is included in the budget again this year. [[20.00]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am trying to highlight the lines from the budget where there is a greater increase than before. This is the support of field guards, whose budgetary background has been increased by the government in order to increase the staff of watchmen. In recent years, agricultural thefts and damages have caused considerable problems, and this source was necessary to prevent them. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] One of the largest volume of spring expansion in the, Drink milk! In connection with a program implemented by the government. From 2.5 billion to more than HUF 4 billion, the framework of this programme will be increased, which in addition to making the supply of healthy milk products to children abundant in the future, will also provide additional assistance to the dairy sector. And while we are at educational institutions, let me mention that the take-over of secondary vocational education institutions in agriculture has been soothed with regard to agricultural vocational schools. Under the management of the FM, sufficient resources from the budget for vocational training will continue to be provided next year. Ladies and gentlemen, I could still list the agricultural budget numbers, but I trust that, like me, my fellow Members have been going over the budget for 2017, and it has been revealed to them that the agricultural sector, as in the past year, has been provided by the government with a satisfactory amount compared to its options. The sector has been on an upward path with similar costs, despite the fact that weather, foreign policy and trade difficulties have been abundant in recent years. Overall, agriculture is in good shape, so we can certainly expect it to remain on a growth path with this budgetary background, and Hungarian agriculture will continue to be one of the leading sectors of the economy. In the spirit of these thoughts, I respectfully ask my fellow Members to support the budget, even so that Hungary can finally become the pantry of Europe. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-05-12-126	I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Tapolczai.
u2016-05-12-127	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As in the course of the debate on the budget law in recent years, I would like to express a few thoughts on disability. What is positive is the promotion of programmes to promote equal opportunities for people with disabilities, with HUF 47.5 million more to support these programmes. I would like to point out that new elements have also been included in this support, such as the broadening of vehicle acquisition aid in the context of the fact that disabled persons who use electric wheelchairs or families where more than one person is disabled can apply for a larger size of vehicle by tender. It is also a very important program for training helping dogs, not only for people with visual impairment, but also for people with hearing disabilities and other disabilities. There is also more resources to launch professional programmes to support and help parents with children with disabilities. I would also like to talk about the so-called Swallow programme, which relieves seriously ill parents and family members of disabled children. With regard to interest protection organisations representing people with disabilities, I have tabled proposals for amendments which, hopefully, will also benefit from Parliament's support. We would allocate millions of HUF to 12 organisations to support professional programmes. I was pleased to note that the amount of sign language translation services and elementary rehabilitation support will remain at the same level, with a total of HUF 830 million. Similarly, it is very important to support autistic homes, intellectually disabled people and housing homes for people with multiple disabilities, which is included in the budget with HUF 190 million. I would like to point out that it is also a very important programme to support social employment institutions. This form of support provides employment for approximately 3,300 people with an annual amount of around HUF 2 billion. Support for programmes for the integration of people with disabilities into the labour market increased by HUF 61 million. This includes significant programmes such as the recognition of a disability-friendly workplace, the help-shopping program, or the "Better with us" program of the world. These are rather programmes to encourage employers. But it is equally important to support professional programmes to help workers and to promote social responsibility. Not least, there is a significant number of support for the employment of workers with disabilities. This represents HUF 34.3 billion a year in the budget, which is the same amount as it was last year. I note in brackets that I am glad that we did not have to give special wage subsidies to employers, because this means that people with disabilities have the same value as workers who are not working. Therefore, employers should not be given a specific incentive to employ persons with disabilities. Of course, we're still far from the perfect situation. There's one more little question. The amount is the same as last year, but the minimum wage will rise. How does the budget plan to resolve this? I am pleased to see that support for disabled sports is included in the budget with HUF 447 million. This includes support for the deafly limp next summer. I have tabled another amendment to support the International Conference of the World Society of Deafs next year. The National Federation of Deafs and Hearers has won the role of host. There will be a major high-quality professional conference planned by a thousand people next year. I tabled an amendment because I would require additional resources to do so. I hope that my fellow Members will also support this. For lack of time, that's all I wanted to say. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-05-12-128	I now give the floor to Congressman Sándor Hadházy.
u2016-05-12-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In the local government world, an interesting change has taken place in recent years. Due to the financing, very significant debts were accumulated, which the Hungarian Government and the Hungarian Parliament tried to repair in 2013. [[20.10]] This was a debt accumulated over more than twenty years, largely due to the fact that governments and the Hungarian Parliament did not give the municipalities the resources needed for their task. This was the case in maintaining the school and education system; this was the case in maintaining the social sector, and this was the case in other areas. Today's subject is the budget. This draft budget shall contain the resources necessary to carry out the tasks of the local government. This is a very big step forward and positive for the future, because on the one hand, local government leaders can see that the government is not playing tricks, it is not trying to get local governments to pay for the tasks that the state has to perform. That's how it is with the teacher's career model. This is the case in the social sector. This is the case in kindergarten and kindergarten care. This is extremely important because it will make the future of the municipalities predictable. The other issue I would like to address in my speech is questions concerning my constituency. In recent years, very serious improvements have been made in transport, as the northern section of the M0 ring, along with the Megyeri bridge, has been built, but this investment, I am not saying that in a strange way, but in the usual way, has not been properly prepared; it has not been properly managed and has not been properly completed. It follows that problems have accumulated in the region that burden the lives of those living there. I would like to highlight two of these. One of them is the connection of the northern section of M0 to road 11, where a cost-effective solution was chosen in 2006, 2007 to enable the region to suffer the emergence of traffic jams that are dangerous on the one hand, on the other hand, of time robbers, energy robbers, and nerve-racking situations every morning from 7 a.m. to 9 a.m. I am pleased that, with a long struggle, the 2017 budget contains 265 million forints, which is enough to remedy this, although I note that it will not be the perfect solution. We'd still be missing 120 million forints. I am confident that this investment will take place this year, and this unblessed state, which is seen every day when road 11 and M0 joins it, will cease to exist. Thank you very much for this opportunity from the government. The other thing I would like to highlight is that it is also linked to the M0 investment, which was not built at the time, also in terms of savings, the island exit of M0, and promised to the local authorities in the region that you will receive a small Duna bridge between Szentendre and Szigetmonostor, which will ensure the connection between the island and the coast. The island settlements have not yet received this, so the question of emergency services and fire safety has not been resolved, and we have been fighting for years to establish a fire station and a rescue station in the village of Tahiti. We have therefore tabled an amendment, confident that the government will support this. This will allow this unity to be built next year and at least two issues can be resolved. Thank you very much and with respect, I would like to ask you to support these amendments. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-12-130	I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey.
u2016-05-12-131	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, In my speech, I would like to give some thought to the draft budget on the operational framework of the central budgetary bodies, including the metropolitan and county government offices. As a basis for the functioning of the public sector, bureaucracy reduction is also known to be the primary objective of the government programme. This aims to strengthen the nature of the service provider of the public administration, along with the concept of a good state, and to increase institutional efficiency. This means making the administration easier for customers, reducing administrative deadlines and administrative costs. Pursuant to Article 17 (3) of our basic law, the government's regional administration is the government office of the capital and county. The chapter XI, Prime Minister's Office, of the chapter on the chapter justification of the draft law on the central budget for 2017, provides details of the operation of government offices. In view of the relevant decisions, a significant increase in tasks and powers is expected in 2016 and the institutions under the direction of the Prime Minister's Office will be reorganised. The institutions concerned shall be inserted or terminated. The primary objective of the measures relating to the review of central offices and of the ministerial background institutions in the form of budgetary bodies is to establish the Ministry, the Budapest and county government offices and district and capital district offices as a general structure of public administration. Compared to this, as a goal, they can only operate on an exceptional basis, operate central offices or other background institutions. The tasks are distributed on the basis of the following, the structure of the basic task distribution is as follows. Thus, legal and strategic programming tasks remain primarily in the hands of the ministries, which in exceptional cases can carry out administrative tasks. As a general rule, the performance of official duties will be transferred to district and metropolitan district offices, as well as to the metropolitan and county government offices, as close as possible to the citizens. In other words, the first-level tasks of the failing central offices, such as the keeping of records or the control-related tasks, will be transferred to the government offices in the capital and county. Last year, the responsibilities of the metropolitan, county government offices and district government offices changed according to the new measures related to the restructuring of the regional administration system, so some territorial bodies were integrated, and therefore an internal integration process became necessary. The number of levels of management has decreased; thanks to the measure, the effectiveness of available professionals has increased; duplication of work has ceased. At the same time, however, their responsibilities have increased considerably. The budgetary expenditure included in the draft shall ensure that the material conditions are met. Let me also give you a few numerical examples: the government will cover HUF 740 million to ensure unforeseen costs during the year. For example, for the physical implementation of the government window program and for the development and maintenance of IT infrastructure, it provides a budget of HUF 6 billion and HUF 186 million. In this connection, I would like to say that in my constituency there are two settlements, Aszód and Gödöllő. The Asodi government window will be handed over next week. The Gödöllő government window will be delivered and opened soon. In Gödöllő, however, very serious IT developments have already been carried out at the same time, so a much better quality of care will soon be possible for customers in all respects. [[20.20]] The General Government Administration of the Government is the Government Office of the Capital and County. The chapter XI, Prime Minister's Office, of the chapter on the chapter justification of the draft law on the central budget for 2017, provides details of the operation of government offices. In view of the relevant decisions, a significant increase in tasks and powers is expected in 2016 and the institutions under the direction of the Prime Minister's Office will be reorganised. The institutions concerned shall be inserted or terminated. The primary objective of the measures relating to the review of central offices and of the ministerial background institutions in the form of budgetary bodies is to establish the Ministry, the Budapest and county government offices and district and capital district offices as a general structure of public administration. Compared to this, as a goal, they can only operate on an exceptional basis, operate central offices or other background institutions. The tasks are distributed on the basis of the following, the structure of the basic task distribution is as follows. Thus, legal and strategic programming tasks remain primarily in the hands of the ministries, which in exceptional cases can carry out administrative tasks. As a general rule, the performance of official duties will be transferred to district and metropolitan district offices, as well as to the metropolitan and county government offices, as close as possible to the citizens. In other words, the first-level tasks of the failing central offices, such as the keeping of records or the control-related tasks, will be transferred to the government offices in the capital and county. Last year, the responsibilities of the metropolitan, county government offices and district government offices changed according to the new measures related to the restructuring of the regional administration system, so some territorial bodies were integrated, and therefore an internal integration process became necessary. The number of levels of management has decreased; thanks to the measure, the effectiveness of available professionals has increased; duplication of work has ceased. At the same time, however, their responsibilities have increased considerably. The budgetary expenditure included in the draft shall ensure that the material conditions are met. Let me also give you a few numerical examples: the government will cover HUF 740 million to ensure unforeseen costs during the year. For example, for the physical implementation of the government window program and for the development and maintenance of IT infrastructure, it provides a budget of HUF 6 billion and HUF 186 million. In this connection, I would like to say that in my constituency there are two settlements, Aszód and Gödöllő. The Asodi government window will be handed over next week. The Gödöllő government window will be delivered and opened soon. In Gödöllő, however, very serious IT developments have already been carried out at the same time, so a much better quality of care will soon be possible for customers in all respects.(20.20) A provision should be made on the financing of expenditure that may arise and which may not be planned during the year, in Hungarian, on the allocation of the general reserve, which will make it safe to operate. This represents a reserve of HUF 4 billion and HUF 980 million. Last but not least, I would like to say that for those working in government offices, state officials are a career model for them from the 2017 budget, perhaps the best news for their personal lives, because thanks to this budget, they can also say that they can take a step forward in their own personal lives. So it is the career model of state officials that gives them this. In the framework of this, there will be serious wage increases in the district offices for the first time, and from 1 January 2017 in the county government offices, and this programme will also start in July this year. In terms of figures, we see that in 2017 the budget provides HUF 42.2 billion for this. Overall, it can therefore be concluded that the metropolitan and county government offices form a very significant part of Hungary's central budget, which includes the appropriations necessary for the performance of their duties as defined by law. Dear House, I would like to ask for the support of the draft budget law for 2017 when it comes to the vote. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-12-132	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai.
u2016-05-12-133	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The 2017 budget is a budget for tax cuts, home creation and reduction of costs, but we can also say that it is also a budget for culture and cultural development. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to look at the resources of the 2017 budget for culture and cultural development. In the case of national public collections, the draft budget law for 2017 contains unprecedented expansion, which will allow for the start and continuation of a number of priority investment programmes. An important public collection development is the reconstruction of the Museum of Applied Arts and the renewal of museums, for which the government guarantees HUF 10 billion in 2017. Almost 2 billion HUF will be available for the implementation of the Transylvanian landscape of the Open-air Museum of Ethnography and the restoration of the garden of the Hungarian National Museum, worth 300 million HUF. Within the framework of the Liget project, the reconstruction of the Romanian Hall of the Museum of Fine Arts, the restoration of the original building of the Hungarian Museum of Technology and Transport, and the construction of the National Museum Restoration and Storage Centre and the House of Hungarian Music will continue in 2017. In addition, the works of the Ethnographic Museum and the new National Gallery are expected to begin. The Hungarian National Digital Archive and Film Institute has 100 million HUF of additional funding available for the maintenance of EU applications in the planned budget. The new line has been created and the support for the production of films is set at HUF 75 million. This new HUF 75 million appropriation is the source of support for short documentary films, portrait films, animation films and experimental film creations referred to in the Ministry of Human Resources, the preparation of film production and the development of a film design, for which there was no funding in previous years. There is also an increase, you can see it on the artistic line, several items have increased within this, as follows. The appropriation increased from HUF 1.2 billion to HUF 1.6 billion. The additional resources will be used to support the following tasks in 2017: the implementation in 2017 of highly prestigious classical music events of international importance, as well as the 100 million HUF support for the implementation of the events of the Bartók year, which started this year and took place in the years 2016-17. The University of Pécs, the University of Szeged and the Faculty of Music at the University of Debrecen also serve a further HUF 90 million to support the activities of the concert director. This activity can also make a significant contribution to encouraging students to stay in place. A separate source, another HUF 100 million, is available to support the ballet performance of national qualified theatre organizations. Organisations with national ratings are expected to implement ballet presentations, for which normal operating aid does not always provide sufficient coverage, and therefore the existence of this budget line is of paramount importance. The Act of Performing Arts also provides additional resources in the course of implementation in 2017. This represents a surplus of HUF 110 million. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. These include applications from non-qualified organisations for operational purposes, as well as applications from the Artistic Arts Act 21. In addition to operating and basic professional tasks, it provides additional resources to performers and art organisations for culturally important purposes. For example, the production competition József Katona, the Weöres Sándor puppet theater competition, theatre education, theatre accessibility, the distribution of dance productions. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of Fidesz-KDNP, by introducing the concept of basic cultural supply, was for all Hungarians to have access to the values necessary for the rise of society, and thus to strengthen the Hungarian identity. In the framework of the basic provision, we support communities working to improve their own situation, acting and acting, especially in backward areas. We hope that by testing the practical activities of community action, it will activate people, shape their attitude towards addressing the challenges faced by the narrower residential environment, the settlement, the region, the country and the Hungarian populated areas. It forms their key competences and identity, taking into account all the local knowledge needed to attract and succeed in any region, whether for residents or for those wishing to develop there. Our efforts to maintain Hungarian and foreign communities are justified by factors such as the preservation and expansion of the values of Hungarian civilisation, the preservation of our vitality and mental health, the pursuit of economic, demographic and foreign policy interests. Budget resources allow the values contained in the Fundamental Law to be preserved and passed on to future generations, our offspring, our children, our grandchildren. Such is the assurance of our national ascent and spiritual renewal, such as the strengthening of the unity of the nation, such as education to appreciate, undertake and pass on the values that our ancestors have consistently demonstrated over the past centuries, such as the events of Hungarian history, the actions of outstanding personalities, the way in which they live, and the recognition of the cultural performance of Hungarians not only in Hungary, but also in the world and in the European context. Such is the appreciation, preservation and transfer of the values of the Hungarian language and Hungarian culture. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The resources of the Budget Act for cultural development serve these purposes. After studying all this, I warmly recommend the budget to this House for adoption. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-12-134	I now give the floor to Congressman Sándor Bodó.
u2016-05-12-135	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, It may be difficult to list new aspects in the many hours of the budgetary debate, but there are certainly some values of the budget that should be emphasised, even repeatedly. [[20.30]] It is obviously important for citizens to have an attitude towards the country's budget, whether as a private person or as a member of a smaller or larger community. Of course, as a private person, everyone meets the rules, the living conditions that come from the budget of a country, whether it is income, its tax implications, whether it be a purchase in shops. And, well, there are many other examples. Perhaps the most vital example of community relations is the local government, the narrower community, the living space where it lives, how and how it benefits from the goods produced, how and how it can ensure the most pragmatic relations for the people living there. As regards municipalities, there is already task funding and I have to say that this funding system has fulfilled its expectations. Many of us remember the times when maintaining the capacity of the local authorities was also a very serious problem, since they were given a series of tasks and should have provided tasks for the people who lived there that were not on the financing side. It was very important to clarify who's job and what funding conditions are associated with it. It has been said for years now and it can be seen from the current draft budget that the budget of municipalities will be predictable. I think that the development and continuation of career models is a very important part of the draft budget. I have just mentioned that making a decision is relatively easy, but it has been more difficult to finance it regularly for years. Fortunately, here, in this budget, we can see that the career models that have begun are also insured from the financing side, not just from the will side. I would also like to highlight the situation of kindergarten educators and the situation of teachers who could not benefit from this model because of the resources available in the previous period, in this support scheme. But they're definitely on the budget right now. It is a very important value of the budget to provide children's meals, since there is a specific higher amount of 71.7 billion instead of 73.9 billion forints. This is a huge thing, by the way, and the creation of the conditions for institutional holiday meals puts each local government, each community, on a very serious level. However, in parentheses, I would like to say that this activity can only be truly practical and targeted if we find the responsibility of the family. This is a serious burden, by the way, but in this sense it is a nice burden for those working in the kitchen, for teachers who organise it, help and also for child protection professionals. This work cannot be helped effectively and effectively if there are no proposals that can also help the substantive conditionality. In the applications for the Territorial Operational Programme, I think all municipalities will find their favourite. All settlements in my constituency are preparing for these programmes, some where the deadline has passed, some where they will come in a few days, in a few weeks. And it's all very, very important. In addition, the special value of the budget is that there is a re-source, there is once again a source to increase the capacity of the kindergarten, and also to develop these kitchens, these really overloaded kitchens. These are all values of the budget that make it positive for me, and with respect to this House, I propose that the bill be adopted. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-12-136	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély.
u2016-05-12-137	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Well, we've had quite a long two days, and perhaps at the end of the budget debate, we could say that reading through the draft budget, knowing within the walls of this House, the budget shows something quite different than being outside the House. Somehow, listening to the past two days, I think that I think that we do not want to acknowledge today's Hungarian reality. Listening to pro-government politicians, of course, their job is to tell them that everything is beautiful and everything is fine, everything is done by the government, opposition politicians must be criticized, but they never meet somewhere - we do not agree. Even though we say that there are mistakes, you say that everything is fine. We heard from the Secretary of State several times yesterday that we do not know the budget itself, we are not willing to take note of the budget figures. Again, I would like to conclude the debate, the budgetary debate, with the opinion of a renowned expert, as I did yesterday's speech. As is known, the budget is concentrated in economic policy. The same is true in Hungary. In 2010, the government terminated the preparation and practice of the mid-term monthly projections, even though their development and the monthly update of the year-round runs would have been justified. This year, the Government Debt Management Center also restricted the public to the past, not providing weekly information on the debts of the central government. Five years ago, the governing parties virtually eliminated the need to prepare a supplementary budget, and this year there was a law that, without a parliamentary decision, a new commitment could be decided by means of a regulation against a budget allocation. Important legislative proposals will be put on Parliament's table as individual proposals and will enter into force in no time. Through the foundations of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank, it provides budgetary functions in many respects and finances public finances through its purchase of sovereign debt, not to mention its family-friendly corruption operations. This is contrary to the Hungarian laws and to the functioning of the European market economy. Some statements on the implementation of the 2015 budget. The revenue and expenditure processes of the general government have, separately, largely exceeded the amounts set out in the Finance Act. The ESA deficit of public finances has become lower than planned, but its cash flow deficit has exceeded it due to the openness of EU accounts. Eurostat modified Hungary's general government deficit in 2015 from 1.9 percent in the original Hungarian EDP report to 2 percent of GDP. It is embarrassing that, in their view, Eximbank should be regarded as part of the government sector and the government disputes this, Eurostat did not provide a credible indicator of the deficit and debt figures. The former Hungarian governments have never been in a similar situation. If Eximbank were considered to be part of the government sector, this would raise the level of government debt relative to GDP by around 2 percentage points by 2015 at an increasing rate from year to year. A few tenths of a year would also reduce the rate of improvement so far and in the future. Amendment of the 2016 budget. In its EDP report at the end of March, the Hungarian government raised the planned deficit in 2016 from 762 billion to HUF 1063 billion. This is presumably explained in particular by the considerable need for this year's advance on aid from the EU, without prejudice to the result-based deficit. In April 2016, the government decided on an additional expenditure of around HUF 500 billion on the basis of expected significant additional revenues. [[20.40]] The source and explanation of these are not yet clear, whereas, according to NGM's announcement of 28 April, the budget for this year remains predictable and predictable. However, it strongly contradicts this fact that the total deviation from the fiscal law is already around HUF 800 billion, i.e. higher than the initially accepted cash flow deficit. And let's see the 2017 budget bill. The general government deficit foreseen for 2017 is unexpectedly 2.4 per cent of GDP, substantially 0.7 per cent higher than the 1.7 per cent promised in the 2015 Convergence Programme and in the 2016 budget. This is a negative turnaround against the ongoing reduction effort so far, which has been supported in recent weeks by the lifelike and vague communication of the zero budget. According to the current Hungarian legislation, the differences between the medium-term framework adopted under the previous 2016 budget, including three-year expenditure and revenue plans, and the relevant draft budget for 2017 should always be justified by factors or processes such as changes in the macroeconomic environment that are outside the scope of the government. The text that has been published so far does not provide an explanation for this, and the government cannot rely on deteriorating economic developments in relation to the increase in the deficit, as it expects economic growth to be significantly faster than the previous forecast of 3.1 per cent in 2016 and 2.5 per cent in 2016. The government's growth forecast is very optimistic, and we believe that increasing the deficit is certainly linked to the elections in 2018. The budget bill typically refers to the 2016 appropriation. On the one hand, the lack of reference to the 2015 facts and realistic expected figures this year, this is a negative consequence of the spring referral, and on the other hand, the content of this benchmark is unclear, as the 2016 appropriations are being amended. In addition to the tax reduction, which has already been promised to reduce the bank tax, it focuses on reducing the VAT of some product groups. Some of this means correction of previous changes: the reduction of VAT on pigmeat forces the reduction of VAT on poultry at a competitive disadvantage, the life-style transformation of the cafeteria system aims at compensating the damaged catering and tourism sector, and the reduction of VAT on internet use aims at forgetting the idea of the Internet tax. A systematic review of taxation is still not on the agenda. Tax revenue shows an increase in corporate tax, which is probably due to the growth tax credit. By explaining this issue, the budget will remain in debt, presumably because this could interfere with EU legislation. Increasing spending will focus on the health and education sector and home creation. The former two aim at at at least partial rescue of the functioning of the sectors concerned, at the same time at the same time as addressing severe social tensions, while the latter serves a significant part of the replacement of outdated EU developments and the interests of the construction sector. The government constantly reduces the role of international creditors in the financing of public debt, partly compulsively, due to Templeton's substantially discontinued engagement, in part with a view to reducing dependence on the rest of the world. The self-financing programme of the National Bank of Hungary has led banks to increasingly embody their liquid assets in sovereign debt, but this is contrary to the European trend to avoid financial mergers between banks and the State; the weight of sovereign debt in the banks' balance sheets is already far above the EU's recommendations. The sovereign debt stock of the population and the Hungarian National Bank foundations is also increasing. On Hungarian sovereign debt, the population can achieve a higher return than on deposits, but for the State, this funding is more expensive than debt in foreign currency. Finally, by 2017, there is a partial economic policy turnaround, but unfortunately, it is precisely in the budget area that has been at least numerically successful. As the situation of market participants continues to be reorganised with specific government measures, such as targeted tax cuts, supposedly motivated by lobbying and political interests, with long criticism by international institutions, the fiscal policy that has led to so far success is loose. This hardly brings about the long-awaited recognition of international credit rating agencies, the reclassification of Hungary into the investor category. According to current information, the 2017 budget carries and contains much more global and domestic risks than in previous years. I'd like to say a few more sentences on the budget. According to the findings of international organisations, including the OECD, Hungary's economic indicators have improved, but this is not sustainable in the long term; the Hungarian government is either not doing enough to establish growth, change the underlying things in the right direction or even make things worse with the 2017 budget. The Secretary of State wasn't here this afternoon when I spoke. I promised yesterday that I would support with KSH data that poverty has increased in Hungary, and now, according to the latest data published by Eurostat, 9.3 percent of employees have already lived in poverty in Hungary last year: compared to the 6.7 percent figure in 2014, they have produced a huge increase of almost 3 percentage points. In the European Union, we can only find worse data in Romania and Bulgaria. Mr. Secretary. This suggests that the Public Works Programme is not a solution, it cannot be the only solution for the current government. You promised a million new market-based jobs in 2010 during the campaign period. It is clear from the data that they have not been able to do so, that they can only improve unemployment data through public work, but this is not the way out for the country. You can't lead people out of poverty with nothing but community service. These data support workers' poverty. I could once again draw up and list how the proportion of people living in persistent poverty has increased, and one of the worst data is that the number of people living in persistent poverty has almost doubled among children in Hungary - we are talking about children. Here, let me bring up one piece of data. It is right that every year more is spent on food, but once it is said that this is all because every year there are more needy children, every year more needy children who need to be supported. If things were to go the right way, Mr State Secretary, then these amounts should be reduced in the budget, because then parents in Hungary would be in a position not to rely on these sources of support. [[20.50]] The congressman before me, Sándor Bodó, from my district, the county of Hajdú-Bihar... [[Zsolt Tiffán intervenes. Dr. Vas Imre: No.]] We have a precinct. [[Zsolt Tiffán and Dr. Imre Vas interject: No.]] You may be arguing with him, but there is. Maybe it's... [[Dr. Vas Imre: He does!]] Congressman, you still have time, I've been called upon several times today. You push the button, you answer it, then I have time to answer it, I'll answer it again. You're arguing, we have a precinct. They introduced the menu reform program, but they didn't prepare the kitchens, just as everyday physical education was introduced and the infrastructure wasn't prepared for it. And now, in the next year's budget, by 2017, what do we see? That again they promise schooling and gymnasiums, they announced in 2014 in Putnok, Gödöllő, and they still haven't recovered, and we could list them, and we will build stadiums again in this country. And I forgot to tell you yesterday, I told you that 34 percent of the population in Hungary is a mass sporter, about 3 million people, but do you know what that means? On average, men take 10 minutes a day and women take 7 minutes. And we are building on this in Hungary for hundreds of billions - we are almost 400 billion forints - stadiums, while cycling is the most popular sport, followed by football, running and swimming. Please, come to your senses. First, create conditions and then make decisions that can then be implemented, everyday physical education, and then mensa reform. So the budget, I think, should be considered, although I have said to Mr Soltés, Secretary of State today, that it might even be possible to throw it out the window, because with the amendment of the law that the government can now redefine everything in the decree, we can almost say that we have been sitting here for the last two days unnecessarily, because they will amend the budget at the regulatory level as they wish. Secretary of State, since we consider you a specialist... [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: What a compliment!]] Well, at least if you're here at the end of the budget debate, the Secretary of State deserves at least that. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: But only for that! Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] I think it's true that we're always talking about numbers, but once in a while, let's get to the point where human lives lie behind the numbers, and I think that should be the most important thing to do, to see people behind the numbers themselves. Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you for listening.
u2016-05-12-138	Ladies and gentlemen, Zsolt Tiffán is the last candidate at the moment. I give the floor to the congressman.
u2016-05-12-139	Thank you very much. Mr President, I am speaking with the patience of the debate here, at the end of today's debate, and with your permission, I would like to speak on behalf of the town of Harkány, representing the good people of Harkány, the bath in Harkány, the hospital in Harkány and the water in Harkány. During today, I submitted an individual amendment to the development of the bath in Harkány, which is about HUF 1.5 billion. Please allow me, Mr Secretary of State, to support with some data this amendment, its entitlement, and to believe that one of the key points and cardinal issues of the development of the area is the development of the bath in Harkány. We need to know that we are talking about a highly recognised and well-known medicinal water on an international scale, and there are treatments waiting for our guests that are rare in this country. Ladies and Gentlemen, With regard to the medicinal water in Harkány, please allow me to say that I have very many colleagues, friends, who can testify to the wonders of this water. Please allow me also to say that the management of the Harkányi medicinal water, the Harkányi bath and the Harkányi medicinal hospital is doing the profession at such a high level and can offer such high level of healing work that hundreds, thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of thousands, and even if we look at the last 200 years, as Harkányi medicinal water culture has looked back 200 years, it has served to heal these people. Please do not take it as an exaggeration when I say that I saw a man - and I told you that the other day, during the health debate - who came to a wheelchair, and two weeks later, when he went home, he was a foreigner, and he went home on his own feet. We should be proud of this national treasure and, to that end, I tabled this amendment. Let's see what Harkányi water can do. It can cure not only musculoskeletal, but also many other diseases. For 200 years, we have been talking about Harkány medicinal water, institutionalized medicinal water culture. Water is suitable for treating gastrointestinal diseases, musculoskeletal diseases, gynaecological and dermatological diseases, and here I would like to highlight, ladies and gentlemen, the healing of psoriasis and psoriasis. There are two such places in the world that cure psoriasis - natural healing water we are talking about -, the Dead Sea is closest to Europe, and if we look at the need to help young people swim, Harkány has even better abilities, because we also need to know how to swim here to stay on top of the water, unlike the Dead Sea. I therefore believe that the past years, decades, centuries have proved that the medicinal water of Harkány is absolutely capable of curing psoriasis in an appropriate way. Let's take a look at the visitors' experiences over the past 200 years, with the help of the Harkányi bath, the healing water, the hospital and the spa management, and the Harkányi Tourism Association, we have collected the data for the past 200 years, and please allow me to list some data. In 1823 at the beginning, in 1823 there were 1,400 guests of the Harkány spa. A hundred years later, in 1923 it was tenfold, 13 thousand guests to the hospital - annual data, by the way. The peak was in 1975, when 1 million 513 thousand people visited Harkány. Even in 2000, the number of guests reached almost 1 million, then 985,000 guests arrived. In 2013, the visitation of the spa was reduced to 471,000 guests, then increased to 485,000 in the last few years, in the last two years thanks to the new management, we can expect about 500 thousand guests this year, based on forecasts and statistics, this year's statistics. But please allow me also to say that this is a rare exceptional area, since South Baranya has tourist properties, the stitching of which, in the context of which perspective and subsequent work can turn South Baranya into something incredibly successful. Villány, I do not need to introduce you, as everyone knows that the best wine in the world is there - so much patriotism is allowed for me, because we know that every wine farmer considers his own wine region to be the best - but there is the beautiful castle of Siklós, which, thanks to the blessed activities of the Hungarian government, has been renewed from 400 million forints in the last time, and is now looking forward to the visitors in full glory of cultural tourism; Villány is for wine tourism, Siklós is for cultural tourism, there are more and more concerts and cultural events there. And there's Harkány with thermal water and plenty of hotels and restaurants where jobs can still be created, and there's the Ormans, Harkány is the gate to the Ormans. Thanks to the Ős-Dráva program, ecotourism develops or develops fantastic points, visitor centers, which allow people living in Villány, Siklós or Harkány to visit. So there's such a wide spectrum of features and offers that we can keep our guests there. [[21.00]] And while we're talking about the Ormany, please allow me to say that unemployment in the Ormany is extremely high. That is exactly what we are trying to help you with, and, Congresswoman, please allow me to reflect on your point. I know it's not the end of a community service program, it's a transition, it's a help to get people into the world of permanent work. While I was chairman of the Baranya County General Assembly, the Baranya County General Assembly with my leadership employed 420 people in the public work programme Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We are not only talking about the fact that these people were otherwise involved in community service, they were not only given jobs, but also their self-esteem, honourable Member. These people have finally seen a purpose in their lives. Think about it when your little girl wakes up in the morning and asks why her father's not home because she's always been home. And then the little girl's mother says it's because the father went to work. But we didn't say it was an endgame, but it helps these people who want to work to go back to the world of permanent work. In this Ormany, where I am a Member, honourable Member, there is enormous unemployment here. Some have 30-40 percent unemployment in settlements. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: We know him.]] Mr Secretary of State, these settlements are close to Harkány, Harkány's catchment area. And when we develop the spa, we not only create hundreds of jobs in the bathroom, but also in restaurants, hotels, service industry, be the grocery store, whatever it is in cosmetics, I could give you a lot more examples. It affects the whole of Harkány and the surrounding area, and we create jobs, and we always say that jobs must be created. Then yes, the development of the spa not only creates jobs in the bathroom, but also throughout the city, and the inhabitants of the area can finally get to work there and finally have a decent job. So I think that we can not only talk about job creation within the bath fence, but also about the development of the whole city. So I ask the respected government to support the development of the Harkányi bath because water, the Harkányi medicinal water is the property of the Hungarian state and takes the water of the Hungarian state to the bath in Harkány. Harkány city, the municipality of Harkány city, which, in a heroic way, even if he slept through it - we talked about it with Mr. State Secretary - the 2007-2013 EU development period, Harkány city is capable of selling this water to visitors on the beach in an appropriate manner, whether they are Hungarian guests or foreign guests. Ladies and Gentlemen, So I think that Harkány's city has proved in recent decades that it is trying to sell itself to the country and to the world in a worthy way. This city has always been faithful to its nation, this city has always acted to feel among the Hungarian national treasures, our heart is to have a bath of this city worthy of its medicinal water. That is why I ask the Government to support my proposal, my amendment, and I think that if the money comes, it will come to the right place. Dear Secretary of State, The people of Harkány are the assurance that this money will grow. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-12-140	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély.
u2016-05-12-141	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, I have a very big request for you. [[Zsolt Tiffán: Here you go.]] I live in Kaban and the settlement next to us from which I come: Hajduszoboszló. You said that you submitted a HUF 1.5 billion budget amendment, as Harkányi water is the nation's treasure, the Hungarian people. The water of Hajduszoboszló is the treasure of the Hungarian nation, the Hungarian people. I tabled an amendment to the development of Hajduszoboszló for HUF 1.5 billion yesterday. I ask you, Member, to represent not only your own settlement in your group, but also the great treasure of the people of East Hungary, the medicinal water of Hajdúszoboszló. I'd like to give you some information. In 2015, Hajdúszoboszló registered the most guest nights in Hungary. Of course, Budapest will not be included in this circle. We beat Hévíz, Siófok, with over 1 million 130 thousand guest nights, 305 thousand registered guests. If we look at the surveys, one of the most popular tourist destinations is Hajdúszoboszló in East Hungary himself, and I very much hope that when the amendments come before the committees, what will happen is that the city of Harkány will receive the support, and the city of Hajdúszoboszló will also receive the support, so that it does not have pro-government leadership. I hope that it will not happen, as in recent years in the budget, and even in the parliamentary period, that any amendment will be tabled, the majority of the Fidesz-KDNP will vote against it. I was approached by the management of the town of Hajduszoboszló to present this amendment, because Hajduszoboszló is as important a city to the country as Heviz, Siófok and Harkány. So I will look forward to what will happen in the committees with great interest, and we will not have to communicate that one settlement, the people living in one settlement, is more important to Fidesz-KDNP than, say, the people living in the other settlement. I would like to draw attention to a few of my amendments. We tabled an amendment to day care. It should always be mentioned, though, that the nursery care fee was introduced by this government. We have repeatedly initiated the withdrawal of this measure by the government, we will do so now, and we would also like to raise the framework for nursery care. My fellow Members from Jobbik's benches have already said that it is very important that the family allowance, which is one of the most important tools for helping people in poverty, was last raised in 2008, and it is very important that this initiative is finally accepted by the government. Holiday meals for children in need. About 500,000 children receive child protection support. We are constantly saying, it is possible to argue that there are people in it who wouldn't really be in need, I always say... - Mr. Secretary of State said that a review was necessary in the case of invalid care, but they also punished those who really needed it. It happens all the time. We're tightening the laws, and that's basically what we're punishing by tightening the laws. Those who want to cheat usually stay in the system, but those who didn't deserve it fall out of the system. It would be very simple if we could spend 400 billion forints on stadiums in the budget over the years, I think that 500 000 children in need [[Click.]] such a smooth provision should be made for catering in Hungary and there should not be constant amendments to the budget; and we are not only talking about stadiums, but there are also a lot of items in the 2017 budget, which we think is completely unnecessary. It would be very nice to finally raise the actual care fees. I am sure that the news has also reached the Secretary of State that we can also talk about a seriously disabled care fee. In front of the White House, Tamás Kocsis constantly asks Members and ladies to solve this problem, to raise the amount of less than HUF 30,000 they receive per month, which has not been raised by the government for many years, and will now only raise it by HUF 1500. We're talking ridiculous amounts. We do not solve this problem with modifiers, but we have money in the budget, we can plan it, we can think of these people. [[21.10]] It's a salary increase for social workers. Congressman, before me, you mentioned kindergarten workers, technical workers. There are about 100,000 technical workers in Hungary, and in 2008 they received the last wage increase. It's true, yesterday, the Secretary of State said in the debate that it was an extra wage. But, Mr. Secretary, the extra wage doesn't fall into the wages of these people. It is not a substitute for these people, but for their esteemed work, if it would be appreciated if the economy were doing well, because we hear this every year, we hear this every month, after 2008 we are finally trying to solve the problem of this 100,000 people. It doesn't work if someone's been working in a kindergarten kitchen for 30 years, and they're looking for a minimum wage just like the one who's just getting into the institution. This problem must be solved, Mr. Secretary. We have proposed a social housing system. We have constantly heard that home-building is one of the most important goals of this government. Good. Finally, after six years of governance, they realized that this was important for keeping young people in place. One reason why young people leave is because they cannot solve their housing problems. The other reason they're leaving the country is because they can't make a living in this country. But, I add, the statements now say that this is not the real reason why young people leave their country in Hungary, but that they do not like the political environment and the environment in which they have to live every day. Now it's the first reason the young people call it. I think that we should take note of this, Mr Secretary of State, and these figures should have been drawn up in this way in the budget. I'm waiting for answers to my questions. [[Turning towards Zsolt Tiffán.]] I see that the Member is preparing, and I hope that he will make a positive statement on the amendment that we have tabled for Hajduszoboszló. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-05-12-142	How well it can be seen from afar when someone pushes the button. Indeed, Congressman Zsolt Tiffán has the floor.
u2016-05-12-143	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for addressing me and answering my question. Unlike you, I do have a constituency or a constituency, even the largest in the country, with some 174 settlements. I don't remember trying to speak in any way against Hajduszoboszlo in my speech. With all due respect to the people of Hajdúszoboszló, all due respect to the patriots who are cheering for the Hajdúszoboszló, which, by the way, has received a HUF 6 billion development in recent years. Well, well, near the end of the debate, tiredness may bring you out of the man, as well as you, Congresswoman, the Freudian saying. He said I really hope Harkány didn't get it. But then you improved it, Congresswoman, so Hajduszoboszlo could have it. Look, Congresswoman, I represent Harkány, that's what I do. That's what I do. It's my job to represent the people of South Baranya, West Baranya. With all due respect to the hairdozoboszlói, the Sarvarians, all the bathing areas in the country, I wish for them to develop. It's their job to represent them. My job is to represent Harkányi medicinal water, the bath. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-12-144	Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor in two minutes.
u2016-05-12-145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think our priority, regardless of which part of the country we come from, is to represent the Hungarian people. I hope, Congressman, you will also tell Mr Sándor Bodó that it is his job. I respect and respect the Member, but I will see what amendments he has tabled and whether he represents Hajduszoboszlo as much as, say, Sarrétudvari, where he comes from. Or, for example, here's Congressman László Tasó from the county of Hajdú-Bihar. Now we can see that everything is about to end up in his constituency in Hajdú-Bihar County, and the others are just dropping something from development sources. I don't think it's their job to just sit here and take all the resources to their own constituency. I'm sorry, but this is offensive to other settlements. In addition, it is offensive that if I sit here for two days, I see two of the six or seven Fidesz representatives of Hajdú-Bihar County speaking throughout the period. It offends me that the county of Hajdú-Bihar is so much seen in the Hungarian Parliament. That's what their own representatives look at. And, I'm telling you, I'm asking because I think that the most important thing for all Members is the representation of Hungary, and then they can have their own narrower environment. It must be important to me, because I live in Kaban, the lives of the people of Kaba, but the lives of the people of Hajduszoboszlo, the people of Transdanubia or the people of North Hungary or South Hungary are also important. Because that must be the most important thing, Congressman. I'll be watching you. I didn't tell Harkány to win. I want you to win it with all my heart. I just don't want it to end with the fact that the settlement that Fidesz has submitted it will win it because it is submitted by opposition, independent city leadership, or because it is submitted through a socialist representative, and he will not win it. Although I would have liked it to be submitted by Congressman Sándor Bodó himself, in case these development resources had a better chance then. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-05-12-146	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not see any further application for a debate, so the general debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he wants to react. [[Péter Benő Banai says yes.]] It says yes. So Mr. Secretary of State, Péter Banai Benő has the floor.
u2016-05-12-147	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Allow me at the end of the debate to share my comments in two parts and to respond in the first part to the points raised by Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. I think that his contribution can give the debate a quasi-frame, and, if I may say so, I am pleased that there have also been professional opinions and insights about the situation of both the deficit and the budget with specific numbers, as the Member said specific figures. I consider this to be a result, because the debate started yesterday morning with opposition contributions not, to my impression, about the proposed budget bill. There were such findings that it was not apparent where there was additional resources for health care and education. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Extraction of resources!]] Yes, it was a withdrawal of funds, as the congressman mentioned. The level of economic growth and its sustainability have been questioned, and now, after two days, she has actually mentioned specific figures. So allow me to respond to these points in order of what has been said. As regards the implementation of the 2015 budget, it is true that the State had much more revenue than it had planned in advance. This resulted in a better general government deficit than previously assumed. Instead of 2.4 percent, as the Member said, the deficit in line with the EU methodology has become 2 percent of GDP. The cash flow deficit has increased. But why? I'll tell you the truth, I've missed these professional debates in the last two days. Because the government dared to take a firm view of the European Commission. However, these discussions did not affect the payment of EU programmes to beneficiaries. At the same time, they were accompanied by the Commission's suspension of several grants. Both the European Commission and international bodies acknowledge that this does not affect the deficit under the EU methodology, and what matters, which is relevant for the Maastricht 3 percent criterion, is a deficit according to the EU methodology. The congresswoman mentioned that the first official Hungarian statistical series showed a 1.9 percent deficit by 2015 and that this finally became 2 percent. Let's add why. Because Eurostat expressed a different opinion on a methodological issue than statistical bodies. It was not a reduction in revenue or a rewrite of expenditure, but rather an accounting for some revenue for 2015 or for the years 2016-17. [[21.20]] So if we want to complete the picture, we have to say that, yes, the budget balance for 2015 has deteriorated by one tenth, and the budget balance of 16-17 has improved in the same proportion. In the debate on the 2017 budget, I believe that this is not an additional aspect, namely that the deficit figure for 2016-17 has improved on the basis of this Commission method, or that the planned balance may be better due to the methodological change than previously calculated. Eximbank. Eurostat will review the export credit business organisations of all EU Member States, such as Eximbanks in all EU Member States. We would consider it appropriate to do so in a transparent way, so that it is visible to all Member States what position Eurostat takes in these organisations. We are here in a professional debate with the European Commission. I do not think that this debate would entail any question mark as to the authenticity of Hungarian data provision. If the congresswoman looks at Eurostat documents, she will see that Eurostat has discussions with individual Member States on a number of further issues. I would like to make a sharp distinction between debates and counterfeiting. There was a Member State who faked his numbers. I would like to make a note of the fact that, in the case of Hungary, such a question has not been raised. By the way, the correspondence on this issue was made public by Eurostat, which is accessible to all. What is the position of the Hungarian statistical bodies and what is the position of the statistical body of the European Union. On the basis of the 2017 deficit target and on the basis of the entire budget, it was said at the beginning of the debate that the budget for 2016 had failed, because it had to be adjusted. You have also mentioned, Congresswoman, how stable the 2016 budget is. Well, if I wanted to put it simply, I'd say thank you very much, the budget for 2016 is stable. The first four-month deficit is the most favourable deficit in the last 15 years. And the amendment that the Government has submitted to the Parliament is about the possibility of additional expenditure, in addition to covering the excess income that has been seen. However, the deficit target and the government debt reduction target are, of course, not violated, which remains at a rate of 2 per cent of GDP in terms of the original deficit. I wish for everyone to fail in this way, so to speak, and, as in previous years, the budgetary processes will be more stable and better developed. The draft budget for next year was also built on the new 2016 figures, in which you are right to count 2.4 percent instead of the 1.7 percent deficit target in the previous convergence programme, but for the fullness of the picture, we also have to say that we are expecting significant reductions in VAT, we were talking about basic foods, we were talking about VAT on internet services, we were talking about reducing VAT on restaurant services. In addition, there are significant increases in wages in the budget, for example in the area of health, and there are significant extra investments in the budget. I think that this 2.4 percent deficit target can be achieved among the Member States of the European Union, a good number of deficits, and it is substantially away from the EU limit of 3 per cent. Once again, if we look out for Europe, we see that, for example, in France, the Committee will not see, until the end of 2017, that the deficit will fall below 3 per cent. There are many European countries with a deficit of more than 3 percent. From this perspective, I do not think that anyone could be ashamed of a 2.4 percent deficit target. And this deficit target, those excess investments, wage increases and tax reductions, results in economic growth occurring by higher domestic demand at around 3 per cent and above 3 per cent. Let me draw your attention to some specific issues. Corporate tax, indeed, was quoted by a Member of the Council. If we look at page 1213 of the submitted document, we will see a detailed description of how the amount of corporate tax revenue is going to develop, including, in addition to the excess of tax revenue due to growth and the increase in the corporate tax base, the expected excess tax revenue due to the construction of the growth tax credit. Thus, the government does not build on assumptions, but describes in particular the justification of each item. I note that the State Audit Office and the Fiscal Council have also given a commendable statement of support for the entire budget. With regard to sovereign financing, I have to argue with the congresswoman. If I understand you correctly, you said that sovereign debt financing for the public is more expensive for the State than financing the state's debt in foreign currency. I believe that the government has taken a positive turn in this regard. Everyone who has taken on foreign exchange loans as a private person has experienced exactly how vulnerable foreign exchange debt is not only to the individual, but also to the national economy and macroeconomic level. I therefore think that the decline in the foreign exchange ratio of the Hungarian State's debt is a value, a value that we must retain and which is also emphasised in the 2017 budget proposal. In addition to reducing the vulnerability of the country by reducing the foreign exchange debt ratio, I consider it a huge value that instead of paying interest abroad, we pay the Hungarian population in HUF. It is the best debt financing in economic policy. Let's look at the best practices in Europe or in the world. Let's take a look at, say, Japan's debt financing. We can talk about 200 percent of GDP. It is not a problem because the debt is financed through internal savings and the interest burden remains in the economy with the population. The central bank has also received many criticisms, as has the congresswoman mentioned the central bank activity, and in the last two days there has been much talk about it. Let us also remember, then, that the cheap financing of public debt is also very much due to the activities of the central bank. By reducing the base rate to a significant extent and by supporting internal funding within the framework of the self-financing programme, the activities of the central bank have resulted in the reduction of interest expenditure on all our taxforints by several hundred billion forints. I have already mentioned economic growth, I would also like to say the growth credit programme, which has contributed very significantly to the growth of the economy. As far as the acquisition of sovereign debt is concerned, it is common practice in Europe, and even after the economic crisis, the ECB itself encouraged individual central banks to support the country's financial situation through the second market through sovereign financing. So I do not see any wrongful process in the events that Mrs. President mentioned. Finally, let me mention here that I have taken it from the words of the congresswoman as if she had assessed economic policy before the 2017 budget as a successful economic policy, at least as far as macroeconomic figures are concerned. I consider this to be a great achievement for the last two days. After the macro-economy, let me mention two more specifics. Madam Member has missed support for kitchen investments linked to the feeding of children. In addition to the fact that the support for children's meals in 2017 is planned to reach nearly HUF 74 billion, this is by far more than double the value of 2010, and there is also a source for kitchen investments, on page 163 of the submitted proposal there is a two-billion sum and a description of the use that shows that the government intends to support such investments. A school, gym, I repeat, 3-3 billion HUF is included in the bill submitted, these items are shown on page 71, and, of course, the government wants to use EU funds for the gym and school building program. [[21.30]] The care fee, as the congresswoman mentioned, increases by 5 percent on the basis of the 2017 plan. Dear Parliament, Let me then say a few broad words about what has been said, the comments of the last two days, and give an opinion on the processes that have been discussed in the context of the budgetary debate. First of all, I would like to focus on the macroeconomic rationale of the budget. There was much talk of growth, there were comments that the government prognosis was optimistic. I would like to remind everyone that the OECD is looking forward to an increase of 3 percent and the European Commission is looking forward to an increase of 2.8 percent in Hungary next year. In particular, the government's somewhat higher growth expectations are due to the fact that the experts of the institutions have not yet been able to take into account the recent government measures announced when preparing their report, i.e. the said European Commission or the OECD has not yet taken into account the additional growth measures set out in the draft budget for next year. Let me also respond to the criticism of the sustainability of economic growth. It has been said that public investment, EU funds, investments by multinational companies, central bank exchange rate policy play a crucial role in economic growth. These are not ad hoc actions, they are not ad hoc activities. There is no economic theory indicating these factors on the sustainability or unsustainable nature of a growth path. Moreover, the use of these instruments was typical in the most developed countries after the economic crisis, so we can also say that Hungarian economic policy has followed a number of practices that have been carried out by several successful countries, and we can also say that the new steps that the government has taken after 2010 have been followed by a number of countries. As regards the inflation prognosis, it should be said that the prognosis can, of course, vary, but the inflation forecasts have been more downward over the past period. We can say that we are calculating inflation by 0.4 per cent this year, and last year and the year before that, we had a negative rate of inflation. Regardless of the question of the reliability of the forecasts, it should be stressed that the inflation prognosis is not meaningful in terms of the merits of the draft budget if the price increase is higher than envisaged, pensions are supplemented accordingly by the government under the current law, or tax revenues increase to a greater extent. The criticism is that it weakens the soundness of the budget, that there is no information on dividend revenues. I have to say that the draft provides a detailed description of the dividends that the budget calculates between the lines of the asset management chapter. But I must also deny the criticism of Congressman Csaba Tóth. According to him, the government does not show the relationship between the cash flow deficit and the EU deficit. Of course, this is described in detail in the proposal submitted. We have discussed several ways in which the development of public debt should be assessed. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát drew attention to the importance of the nominal level of public debt. At the same time, we must say that, in economic policy, it is the ratio of GDP that is subject to particular attention. A nominal reduction in debt may also be a desirable objective, but international organisations, analysts, are monitoring the government debt-to-GDP ratio, as this shows the level of debt in terms of economic performance. The 2017 budget expects that the debt reduction process seen since 2011 will be maintained and the debt-to-GDP ratio will decrease in 2017 and subsequent years. According to József Tóbias and Csaba Tóth, 100 billionaires, Dezső Believing, are the result of economic growth and Erzsébet Schmuck said the same way. In response to the objections, I have to say that thanks to the new budget presentation, the tables that separate operational, stockpiling and EU items show what is going to happen to accumulation expenditure, and on this basis everyone can take a picture of these issues. During the debate, several people said that infrastructure development, which is a major part of the stockpiling budget, a modern city programme that helps to become a growth centre for cities with county rights, or low-cost investment in Paks are beneficial for society as a whole. The same can be said about the development of academic institutes, investments under the green economy financing system, aid for corporate investment promotion or local authorities' accumulation grants, and the development of Pest county. Investment in cultural and quality of life such as the reconstruction of the Museum of Fine Arts, the new campus of the University of Physical Education or the investment of the University of Pécs, I also believe that it cannot be considered a waste of money. In my opinion, the government is also focusing on the local economy. The instruments are also included in next year's budget. Three-quarters of job creation grants are allocated to small and medium-sized companies in Hungary. These subsidies should also include lower corporate tax rates for smaller companies, preferential corporate taxes, kata, kiva and benefits which are mainly granted in the framework of the action plan for the protection of the workplace, reaching the domestic corporate circle. They typically strengthen the local economy. Aid to foreign firms, with a lower overall share, will help the high-tech manufacturing sector. Here progress, value-creating research is possible with the help of intensive global companies, and by increasing the number of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises joining these companies. Moreover, it cannot be overlooked that the government is also focusing EU funds much more on domestic companies, including smaller companies. Ladies and Gentlemen, In addition to the positive macroeconomic figures, a significant increase, and employment growth, there are certainly areas that require additional resources beyond the figures already set out in the 2017 draft. Health, education and the cultural sector all benefit from significant surpluses. I think we need to appreciate these surpluses. We can look at what progress the draft budget for next year includes in each area - whether it is about health, education, culture. In the healthcare sector, there is a surplus of nearly HUF 167 billion, resulting in the expansion of career models, the extra benefits of nurses and doctors, but we can also talk about the additional resources of education, where there is a surplus of HUF 86 billion in higher education and, as has been said, in public education, we can see more than HUF 170 billion. Dear Parliament, Several Members had a catastrophic indication of the budget for next year, mentioning the budget for the split-up of the country. For several years, we have been saying that increasing social expenditure in the government's perception is not a measure of a successful budget, but of how the degree of dependency on social assistance is reduced. I mention this because, as a budget for split-ups, some Members have referred to the reduction in expenditure on the social aspect of GDP. I think that it is increasingly the successes achieved by increasing employment in the market that represent catching up for those layers who have previously lived on aid rather than work. Yes, the Public Works Programme is also part of the expansion of employment, but the aim is to make it a temporary status, the aim is to ensure that as many people as possible are able to work on the primary labour market. To this end, the government has developed and introduced new programmes to facilitate the transition from public work to competition. [[21.40]] We must also say that not only public work has played a role in the significant expansion of employment, but a significant proportion of employees have found their jobs in the competitive sphere. It should also be stated that, in addition to public work, active labour market instruments are included in the draft budget next year with a significant amount of HUF 110 billion. This shows, therefore, that the draft budget for next year also envisages significant resources for training and thus for the position on the primary labour market. The promise, the intention to create a million new jobs in ten years, I think it remains a viable promise, with about half a million more jobs created on a pro rata basis. On this road, I think that the budget for the budget of 17 will also move on, as we are calculating the number of people employed. I hope that next year, in the 2018 budget debate, a larger number will be reported. As far as helping people in the most difficult situations is concerned. First of all, we must say that there are no social benefits where any reduction would take place according to the government's plans. At the same time, we see the opposite, for example, in raising the care premium or in raising the benefit of elderly people who have reached retirement age but are not pensioners by 5%. I note that the latter benefit, according to the government's proposal, will then increase in proportion to the increase in pensions, i.e. the provision that is indexed with inflation. Opponents considered the reduction in pre-age benefits to be problematic. Here it must be said that the number of right holders is falling, and therefore the absolute amount seen in the budget is reduced, but of course everyone gets the support they deserve, and this is also an inflation-indexed supply. As far as family benefits are concerned, it has been said many times that, for example, the family tax scheme only puts the wealthier in position. I must deny this, two parents with a gross income of HUF 155 000 can make full use of the family discount for families with three children. So if both of you earn less than two thirds of the average wage, you can still apply the maximum discount of 99 thousand forints. I think that this will also provide a significant catch-up for the lower-income families mentioned. In comparison, it should be said or may be said that before 2010, the then government granted tax relief to families where there were at least three children and only a maximum of HUF 4000 per child. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Time's up. Dr. Imre Vas: You have 30 minutes, that's the closing word.]] Family home creation discount: It was introduced from 2015 and has been significantly expanded since 2016, with HUF 211 billion in next year's budget. We can rightly call, I think, next year's draft budget is the budget for home creation. There was a lot of talk about pensions. Once again, I have to say that pensioners can not only increase their income by raising their income by inflation, but I also think that tax cuts have a significant impact on their situation. Finally, let me sum up the last two days by saying that, according to most government-related analysts and official body opinions, the macroeconomic path can be maintained, the public debt can remain on a declining path and that the surpluses contained in the budget proposal in some areas of education, health, culture or even social expenditure are realistic and real. Similarly, the reduction of the tax in 2017 is realistic, and the coverage of everything is available, so I have the heart to propose to the Honourable Parliament a draft budget for next year. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-12-148	Ladies and gentlemen, Next week, the Committees will discuss the amendments tabled. We now have a general debate on the draft law on the joint management of copyright and copyright rights until closure. Government referral T/10527. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2016-05-12-149	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear House, On the continent of Europe for the first time, the 19th century. In the 20th century, the establishment of a legal protection organisation in France led a long way to Directive 2014/26/EU on collective management of copyright and related rights and the multi-territorial licensing of online use of musical works in the internal market, adopted in the European Union in February 2014. Before that, Member States' requirements for collecting societies were not harmonised at EU level. With the adoption of the directive, this situation has changed, and there is now a need for EU legislation to be complied with in this area with a high degree of detail compared to the standards of the directive. The Directive covers two main regulatory areas. On the one hand, it lays down minimum requirements for the structure, management and functioning of organisations dealing with the joint management of copyright and related rights. These provisions aim to improve the democratisation and transparency of the functioning of these organisations. On the other hand, it establishes a framework for the authorisation of the online use of musical works by collecting societies, covering the territory of more than one Member State. The primary objective of adopting the draft law on the common management of copyright and copyright rights is to transpose the European Union Directive on collective management of rights. The transposition of the directive made it necessary to redefine the current Hungarian common rights management system, including the creation of a special law on collective rights management, and to amend certain provisions of the Copyright Act or other relevant legislation. The bill also contains technical amendments to certain provisions of the trade mark law which have become necessary for the purpose of amending the EU trade mark regulation, in particular because of a change in the name of the Office responsible for intellectual property in the European Union. I would like to briefly describe the fundamental provisions of the bill concerning the regulatory system for collective management. For the first time, I would like to point out briefly who are the collecting societies that are the subject of this bill. According to the Copyright Act, copyright-protected works are, in principle, legitimately used only on the basis of the permission of the creators. The author has the exclusive right to any use of his or her copyright and to permit each use of it. Accordingly, the author has the exclusive right to allow the copying, reproduction, public performance or broadcasting of his work on radio, television, to be made available online. However, there are cases where, due to the specific nature of the use or circumstances of the use, copyright holders do not have the possibility to individually authorise the use of their works or to exercise other rights in this regard, such as collecting royalties or taking action against infringements. For example, when a large number of works from different authors are used at the same time, such as television or radio broadcasting. In such a case, it would be disproportionate for the user to agree the conditions of use with the author of each work to be used individually. [[21.50]] The legal institution of this collective management provides a solution to such a case and collecting societies worldwide have been set up to address the problem under Article XX. At the beginning of the century. Therefore, the common treatment of copyright and copyright-related rights can be discussed where, due to the nature or circumstances of the use of works or performances, the right holders would not be able to exercise their rights individually and therefore their rights are exercised on their behalf by an organisation established by them, the collecting society. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] For certain uses, the Copyright Act makes the exercise of rights through a collective management organisation mandatory, but the right holders also have the possibility to voluntarily decide on the exercise of rights under collective management in respect of a use. In Hungary, the basic rules on the structure, organisation, operation and management of collecting societies are currently set out in LXXVI 1999 on copyright. It's in law. This Act also regulates certain administrative and other procedures relating to the activities of collecting societies. The No. its rules on collective management were last substantially amended in 2012. This amendment laid down basically rules in the same direction as those set out in the Directive by imposing accounting and management requirements for domestic joint rights managers, provisions to facilitate transparency and strict restrictions on the use of royalties. However, in order to transpose the Directive, it is necessary once again to review the rules currently in force on collective management and to align them with the requirements of the Directive. The considerable scope and speciality of the legislation to be transposed justified the establishment of rules on collective management by a separate law. A number of provisions of the bill take over or clarify the rules of the Copyright Act. However, in order to transpose the directive, the legislative proposal contains a number of conceptual changes compared to the rules currently in force, which are transforming the current system of common law management on certain issues. The main aim of the bill is to preserve, in addition to the transposition of the directive, the legal framework and control systems established in recent years to ensure the effectiveness of joint management of rights. It is also important to prevent the appropriate and effective representation of the Hungarian cultural repertoire from being adversely affected by the undesirable effects of action at EU level. One of the main principles of the Directive is that right holders are free to choose which collecting societies, whether domestic or foreign, should be entrusted with the management of their rights. In view of this, Hungarian legislation currently in force cannot be maintained, according to which in Hungary joint legal management activities can only be carried out by organisations registered by public authorities in Hungary, subject to strict requirements established under Hungarian law. On the basis of the bill, it is sufficient, in principle, to simply announce the start of a joint right management activity. However, in addition to this principle, the bill continues to require that only organisations which comply with specific requirements and which have obtained prior official authorisation to carry out these activities may carry out joint management activities in the most important areas of domestic collective management. These organisations are referred to in the bill as representative collecting societies. They are representative, as one of the main expectations of them is that they represent a significant proportion of the right holders involved in their activities, such as composers and performers. This is because they are entitled and obliged to act in the name and in the interest of holders who have not entrusted the organisation with an activity authorisation. This is called the so-called extended collective management of rights, which is also one of the most important principles of our common rights management right currently in force and should therefore be maintained. I also think it is important to emphasise that the scope of the bill also covers those organisations which, although established in another Member State, also have a joint management activity in the territory of Hungary. On the basis of the Directive, so-called independent collecting societies appear in the proposal as a new type of organisation. By way of derogation from collecting societies, such organisations shall be organised separately from the right holders and may carry out their own business activities. While the activity of independent collecting societies does not constitute joint management on the basis of the proposal, certain guarantee requirements governing collecting societies also apply to those organisations. In accordance with the regulatory system of the Directive, the proposal also addresses the requirements for which a collective management organisation may now authorise online use by authors of musical works not only in its place of establishment but also in the territory of several EU Member States. These requirements include detailed data processing and other administrative obligations. Dear Parliament, Please allow me to present, in an exemplary manner, some of the other elements of the bill, most of which are for the transposition of the Common Rights Directive. The bill regulates the requirements for the establishment, organisation, operation, management and reporting of activities for all collecting societies, most of which also serve the purpose of transposing the Common Rights Directive. The provisions governing the rights of authors and related rightholders in the context of the management of rights should also be mentioned here. The objective of the bill is to establish serious transparency requirements for collecting societies. In this context, it requires, inter alia, the publication of a so-called transparency report detailing their management of rights every year. It also contains specific provisions on the details of the information to be provided by these organisations to their members, other collecting societies and users of works. In order to strengthen the democratism of organisations, guarantee requirements such as provisions on the establishment of an internal supervisory body or the maintenance of detailed rules of conflict of interest have also been formulated in the proposal. The substantive and procedural rules are structurally separate in the proposal. Accordingly, a separate part regulates the rules on the procedures for the management of the rights of collecting societies or independent collecting societies. These procedures can be divided into two groups. Under the proposal, the National Intellectual Property Office, as the Government Office responsible for the protection of intellectual property, will continue to act as an authority in the official proceedings, applying the general rules governing official proceedings. Public authority matters include, in particular, procedures for the registration and supervision of collecting societies and independent collecting societies. The procedure for the approval of so-called tariffs applied by collecting societies is separate from the administrative procedures relating to the management of rights under the law in force. Those tariffs shall specify, for the year in question, the amount of copyright royalties to be paid for each copyright use authorised by collecting societies. The tariffs shall be approved by the Minister of Justice and published annually by collecting societies on their own behalf in the official notification. However, on the basis of the proposal, the approval of the Minister of Justice will be required only in respect of the tariffs of representative collecting societies. This guarantee element is necessary for the tariffs of representative collecting societies because collecting societies are entitled to carry out joint management activities with extended effect. This obligation should not be maintained in relation to the tariffs of other collecting societies. The proposal also contains clarification of certain provisions of the already cited copyright law. Most of these minor amendments are intended to ensure consistency with the proposal and include other technical corrections. [[22.00]] The amending provisions of the proposal concerning the Patent Act and the National Cultural Fund Act are also aimed at bringing it into line with the bill. Dear House, The above-mentioned bill must be adopted in order to comply with Hungary's obligation to transpose the Common Law Management Directive. With the adoption of the bill, it is also possible to ensure that the joint right management system in Hungary can continue to operate within the framework of guaranteeing the proper efficiency and protection of Hungarian culture. I therefore ask you to support the bill, following its discussion, in voting with your consent. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-05-12-150	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-12-151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The government recently submitted the T/10527. Directive 2014/26/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on collective management of copyright and related rights and the multi-territorial licensing of the online use of musical works in the internal market. In order to transpose the Common Rights Directive into Hungarian law, it is necessary to review the current legislation and to comply with the requirements of the Directive. The law on copyright in 1999 is the LXXVI. It involves amending certain provisions of law, repealing certain provisions of it or creating a separate law. Let me add that, in order to transpose the directive, it is not just the No. It takes over its rules, but at several points the proposal contains a conceptual change which transforms the regulatory system for the management of rights on certain issues. The definition of a collective management organisation under the Directive covers a much more general and broader range of persons than the Directive. the provisions currently in force. To qualify as a joint rights management organisation, it lays down the following conditions. In the interest of more than one rightholder under law, transfer of rights, authorisation of use or other contractual arrangement, and for the sole or main purpose of the common benefit of that organisation, the entity should treat copyright and related rights, and its members should be owned or controlled and/or act as a non-profit organisation. In order to prevent dilution, the scheme introduced a category of so-called representative collecting societies. Therefore, collecting societies that meet specific requirements can carry out joint management activities. In substance, the concept of a collective management organisation under current copyright rules, such as the requirement of representative membership and the obligation to operate subject to prior authorisation, will be introduced into a new system. I would like to say that the motion contains a number of regulations which can only be used for representative collecting societies, i.e. only they can carry out joint management activities with extended effect and a guarantee element of the regulation that this activity is subject to the authorisation of the National Intellectual Property Office. The draft presents the independent management organisation, which was previously an unknown concept in EU and Hungarian law, which has now been named in the directive. Such organisations should be clearly separated from classical collecting societies on the one hand by full organisational separation from rightholders and, on the other hand, by the presence of their own business element in relation to their activities, which may, for example, take the form of commissions on royalties on mediated licences. In view of the proposals, their activities do not constitute collective management, but they are also subject to requirements concerning certain collective management activities, such as reporting obligations. In order to transpose the Directive, the proposed legislation regulates in detail the provisions on the establishment, organisation, operation, management of collecting societies and the provision of data on their activities. It is important to point out that the legislation lays down serious transparency requirements for them. The transparency report and all documents detailing their activities shall be prepared annually and made public via the website. Provisions for the establishment of an internal supervisory body or the maintenance of a conflict of interest rule have also been formulated in the proposal. The substantive and procedural rules for collective and independent collecting societies are structurally separate in the proposal, which can be divided into two groups. The scope of the general rules governing official procedures: procedures relating to notification or registration and supervision of activities may be included. The other group includes procedures for the approval of so-called tariffs. These tariffs shall determine, in a given year, the extent to which copyright rights are to be paid for each copyright use authorised by collecting societies. The tariffs shall be approved by the Minister of Justice and shall be made available annually by collecting societies on their own behalf in the official notification. On the basis of the motion, the approval of the Minister of Justice will be required only in respect of the tariffs of representative collecting societies. The proposal shall transpose in a separate section the specific rules of the Directive on collecting societies authorising the online use of musical works with cross-cutting scope. In the event of a collective management organisation carrying out such activities, it is necessary to comply with these specific requirements. These requirements are applicable to the up-to-date administration of the use of works and to the precise allocation of charges. Finally, I would like to mention that the amendments to the trade mark regulation also made it necessary, in the light of the new Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, to include Annex XI of 1997 on the protection of trade marks and geographical indications. It is therefore appropriate to make a technical amendment to some of the provisions of the Act, the subject matter of which concerns the field of intellectual property, in this bill. Please vote in favour of the adoption of the bill. Thank you for listening.
u2016-05-12-152	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-05-12-153	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, According to the justification of the bill submitted, compliance with the directives and transposition are served by the bill. It is a separate legislation, which will cover the area of collective management instead of the provisions in force today and now in the Copyright Act. With the exception of a few paragraphs, this new law will enter into force on the 31st day following the announcement. [[22.10]] It is worth summing up briefly what collecting societies are. Due to the nature or circumstances of the use, copyrights and copyright-related rights may not be exercised individually by collecting societies. Those bodies shall authorise the use of the works or performances of the rightholders represented by them, lay down other conditions of royalty and use, monitor the use of works and related legal performances, collect, divide or distribute royalties to another collecting society and take action against infringements of copyright or related rights. The creation of a new law is therefore a significant step in the area of copyright protection. Dear fellow Members, If it is true that a significant regulation is being negotiated in this House, then the question arises why the preparatory of the bill did not take this seriously. The draft bill was submitted for consultation on the government website between 18 and 23 March 2016. In addition to the presentation, the portfolio published a meaningless preliminary impact assessment sheet; we can simply say that it is a great pity. It would be interesting to know, for example, how fees and supervisory fees, including the operating conditions of the National Intellectual Property Office, will develop, what direct electronic contact will cost, how the new regulation will affect market participants. Without knowing these effects, only trained voting machines are willing to support a new proposal transforming the profession as a whole. The bill was submitted to Parliament on 4 May 2016. The 2010 CXXXI on social participation in the preparation of legislation has not yet taken place. Article 11 § 1 to fulfil the obligation laid down in paragraph 1 of this Article. The Minister responsible for preparing the legislation is not obliged to respond to the published draft but, after considering the opinions received, and, in the case of rejected opinions, a typified summary of the grounds for refusal, which shall be published on the website together with the list of opinionaries. It's canceled. It is rather strange that the Minister for Legislation is not complying with this obligation. We have no knowledge of whether or not the draft has been consulted by the court, the data protection authority. This is not irrelevant, in particular, because it is a new legislation, and the proposal also has a judicial procedural chapter and a system of data management rules. Dear Secretary of State, Nor does the justification of the bill explain why, if the directive on which the regulation was based had to be transposed by 10 April 2016, the legislative proposal has only just been submitted. Possibly because there could have been serious professional disputes prior to the referral to the Parliament. Today, nine associations, collecting societies, are registered on the website of the SZTNH. The question is whether there was a professional agreement between them with regard to the current regulation. Dear Parliament, The question is not a coincidence. The judicial wallet was submitted on 5 November 2011 by T/4859. His bill No.3 has substantially amended certain intellectual property laws. That law re-regulates the law on collective rights managers, thus, inter alia, removing the restriction that only one association may be registered to manage the same right of the same group of rightholders. This has resolved the abolition of the legal monopoly on collective management, otherwise quite rightly. It is not reassuring that the proposal now introduces a representative collective management organisation, which acts exclusively in cases of compulsory collective management or statutory collective management. The reason for this suspicion is that, on the basis of the text of the proposal, it is explicitly subjective and therefore not permissible for a representative collective manager to become one of the entities which otherwise meet the requirements, which can best implement the conditions laid down overall - 35. §.The directive whose transposition would be the aim of the proposal - the Directive of Parliament and of the Council on collective management of copyright and related rights and the multi-territorial authorisation of the online use of musical works in the opening market - does not contain any specific regulation for representative collecting societies. In addition, it assumes in its provisions defining the principles of regulation that, in an internal market where competition is not distorted, the protection of innovation and intellectual creation also encourages investment in innovative services and products. Suspicion is not unfounded, according to which we cannot be sure that competition in the field of joint law management in Hungary is being achieved. Ladies and gentlemen, It is proposed that the collective management organisation may use a specific part of its royalty income and its revenue from its membership fees and activities other than joint management under the terms of the law for the purposes of the Community, in particular social and cultural purposes of the rightholders. The programmes of radio and television organisations, including their own programme by wire to the public, as well as the authors of works placed on the market in image or audio media, performers of performers of performing performances, as well as producers of films and sound recordings, are copied for private purposes, reduced by the cost of handling, and 25 per cent of this fee should be used for cultural purposes. The collecting society may use its revenue for cultural purposes by transferring it to the National Cultural Fund. So, in practice, the discretionary power of the NKA is how it distributes this money. This distribution is not transparent and therefore cannot be supported. Dear House, The proposal provides for the application of the general rules of the administrative procedure, Ket, in the official procedures which it regulates, with a few exceptions. This would have been worth a little more thought, as the judicial portfolio is planning to submit a general administrative order to the National Assembly containing the framework of administrative procedures. We do not miss at all the proposal to further destroy the procedural rules of the administration, but the Minister responsible must at least consider this. There are also questions about decisions by the authorities. Does the difference in content of an administrative procedure relating to a collective management activity really justify different rules of redress than the general one? There shall be no appeal against the decision of the SZNH in public matters relating to the management of rights, re-entry and supervision proceedings, or an appeal to a prosecutor. At least an argument against or at least against the request of a prosecutor would have been appropriate, since the SZNH not only carries out registration but also conducts licensing and other procedures. In the event of an infringement affecting the merits of a decision by an administrative authority, the prosecutor shall, in the event of a decision imposing an obligation on him or her to revoke or restrict the right to enforcement until the limitation of his or her right to grant a claim or to close the matter until at least one year after the date of the order for enforcement. [[22.20]] It is not reassuring for us to regulate the procedural fees contained in the proposal. Even today, it is still a practice that the power to issue an administrative service fee to the Minister is not fulfilled. The lack of these regulations was also indicated in the recent amendment of the law on intellectual property. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, 90 percent of the provisions of the law adopted on the basis of the proposal shall enter into force on the 31st day following its publication. The Government is authorised to establish regulations on 14 subjects, the Minister of Justice must establish a fee regulation by the date of entry into force of the Act, in agreement with the Minister responsible for tax policy, the Minister for Culture and the Minister for Supervision over the SZNH, and by requesting the opinion of the President of the SZNH. It should be very much considered that, if the referral had been delayed, now should have been given a longer period of time to prepare for the implementation of the law. We see that, despite the right, professionally founded provisions and the obligation to harmonise legislation, it is not possible to trust that the government has submitted exceptionally unmotivated legislative proposals for political and self-interest. Nor can we be sure that the Government and the Minister for Justice will make up the necessary provisions for implementation in a timely and coherent manner. Nor can we be sure - because there was no debate in the public eye - that this bill came before the House after careful consideration of the relevant professional opinions. Dear Parliament, We are quite certain, on the basis of the backgrounds I have presented, that the bill cannot be supported, unless we are publicly and thoroughly convinced by the specialist wallet and the professional public that the bill before us is good, useful, impartial, usefully impartial and does not distort competition on the market. Thank you for your attention, and thank you for listening. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-05-12-154	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr President Novák. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-05-12-155	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, With the transposition of the EU Directive on joint copyright management, appropriate and new regulatory forms will also become part of Hungarian legislation. Overall, progress has been made, therefore Jobbik supports it, but I also present half a dozen or more professional criticisms or amendments. Compared to so far, it is a step forward that it seems that there will really be more transparency for rightholders, but I do not think that the directive excludes at all the creation of public bodies as a collecting society for which the exercise of quasi-public powers, in essence, of royalties collected as taxes, would be more meaningful. In addition, payment of membership fees remains according to the bill, while if it were a public body, this would not be necessary. Well, what's been going on? Let us also say a few words about this, because Artisjus, as a state, existed in Hungary, according to some opinions, did not defend copyright, only collected and distributed royalties. Artisjus acted as a monopoly because it did not have a competitor and collected as many royalties as it wanted, as much as it was not ashamed of, and was not regulated and approved by the competent ministry. Artisjus acted as an authority, even though it was a private company, and he made money for something he didn't own, and he spent most of the money he collected on himself. In the past, Artisjus was able to deduct the cost of handling and providing health and welfare services - I think it was quite nonsense that the artists' money was spent on this. It seems that the health and well-being expenditure has finally stopped, only the treatment cost remains, but it is still too high. Artisjus' handling cost in 2009 was 3 billion forints out of its 13 billion budget, so Artisjus lived up to a quarter of its revenues. Although it says on their website that this was reduced to below 15 percent in 2014, it was pushed down to 13.5 percent, but I think it is still very high. The justification for this, who will examine how much you can spend, will not be recorded in this proposal either. The budget and the remuneration of senior officials are the exclusive powers of the decision-making body, and the SZTNH will now examine their operation annually, and a complaint can be filed - of course some progress, and we must acknowledge that. Certain principles and kogens rules could also be formulated in the law on the rules of division, perhaps the practicing artists would be able to tell me what should be done, and I would not undertake to draft it myself, so I did not dare to submit an amendment in this respect. With regard to tariffs, it would also be good to have a state agreement or at least a legal requirement as to what they are, and I think that again only professional organisations that can see into it could say that. It could also be specified that the remuneration should be negotiated with the relevant professional associations, such as the hosts or the tourism organisation. However, it is appropriate in the bill to set minimum requirements for the organisation and functioning of organisations dealing with the joint management of copyright and related rights, so that they are transparent. It provides an important basis for the framework for multi-Member State licensing of online use of musical works by collecting societies. What is new is that joint rights managers will have a third category: representative collective management. This was necessary because, on the basis of a mandate, a foreign EU collective manager will be able to act in Hungary. At the same time, it will be very important to pay attention to the fact that the rightholder can only give them a valid mandate if he has agreed to do so in writing with the original collective manager and has not sent a statement of objection. In fact, according to the EU Directive, anyone who complies with certain rules can be a collective manager, a kjk. It is a dangerous but acceptable step that the activity becomes outsourcing, making it more complicated and difficult to monitor. According to previous Hungarian regulations, only those who met all the requirements could be kjk, and there was no possibility of outsourcing either. It is welcome that joint management of rights will become more effective. It is worth pointing out that there is some concern that the definition and role of independent rightholders is not entirely clear. This could give a loophole for different organisations to fail to comply with certain strict kjk obligations - let us hope, of course, that there will be no practical example of this. With the new legislation, there is a risk of aggravating the fight against infringements. This practice will have to be properly developed in accordance with the laws. It should also be noted that 180. The list of use for compulsory school education is missing from the list of adult education. In our opinion, this should be part of the list, so I also tabled an amendment to this. Overall, it is welcome to create a new framework for the effective licensing of cross-border online music uses, such as downloading and streaming. The whole proposal is therefore supported by Jobbik as a step forward, although Hungary started very deeply from Artisjus in this regard, so there is still room for improvement, I think, but this step is certainly welcome, so Jobbik will support it with its vote. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-05-12-156	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Pál Völner, whether he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Dr. Völner on Pál's signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-12-157	Thank you very much, Mr President, very briefly. I would like to thank my fellow Members for taking such a deep approach to the proposal. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély had a comment that there was no preliminary debate. There has been a very broad debate and discussion, which is why the proposal has been postponed. There were three rounds of discussions: in the autumn of 2015 we had a social consultation on the concept, and in the spring of 16 we had the social consultation that was required, the OBH and NAIH were invited to give a separate opinion, and all the relevant organisations working in this area were involved. [[22.30]] I hope that I have succeeded in convincing the Member, and thank you for considering the submission of this proposal a step forward and for your support. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-12-158	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform my fellow Members that it was possible to present the amendments by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, Mr President of the Jobbik Group, Member Novák, applied for a post- agenda address:.The Jobbik 12 programme point on the promotion of political crime. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-12-159	Dear Parliament, Just as the word gypsy crime doesn't mean that every gypsy is a criminal, so the word "politic criminal" doesn't mean that every politician is a criminal. But there are typical forms of criminalisation that are typical of politicians, since a politician typically, let's say, doesn't steal non-ferrous metals, but, for example, a doctoral dissertation, so that we can just think of the fake head of Paul Schmitt, elected by you as the first man of the National Assembly, with a strictly an "l.," that is how he wrote his name. Well, these special forms of crime also require special treatment for politicians, which is why Jobbik has compiled a 12-point program package. I would like to draw your attention to this right now, because with political corruption, government corruption, I think it is full of snow, and unfortunately it is independent of governments. Therefore, we should no longer be talking about concrete scandals, because this is something to throw at, but we would like to talk about a meaningful programme, regardless of personalities; the substantive proposals that will guarantee that it will be different from the parties that have already come to the Jobbik government. After all, in our election program, we already provide a legal guarantee of how to end, for example, the most widespread and legitimized form of political crime, the job accumulation of politicians, in which Jobbik has already been able to achieve serious successes. After our good example, we managed to achieve that the most common form of a Member of Parliament, such as a mayor or a county assembly representative, or even a president, was able to put an end to this. Of course, there are other loopholes, all of them should be closed, this is the first point of our program, because let's just think of the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence, who had four additional jobs, the Chairman of the Board of Directors of a state company in four different companies. So I think that if someone has a fifth position, it's safe to call it a job accumulation, a legal form of political crime that needs to be put to an end. However, since I only have five minutes to present our proposals, I would just like to mention the rest in headlines. The abolition of immunity, since Jobbik is a good example of this, we will never hide behind our immunity, which is why I hope that soon the immunity will be abolished in Hungary. We would also like to eliminate encryptions that are contrary to the public interest, as it is often used to conceal mugs and simply sweep them under the carpet. I would like to mention as the fourth, the disclosure of the family's declaration of property, which, of course, could be called a simple encryption, after they are kept in the Parliament's safe in a sealed envelope, kept from the public, we do not know whether, for example, the offshore interests that were revealed in the world's largest offshore exposure were actually mentioned in the name of the former MSZP banker, László Boldvai's wife. Unfortunately, for the time being, we demand that these encryptions be dissolved, but we set a good example, and Jobbik's representatives publish the property statements of close relatives living in the same household as our children on Jobbik's website, as opposed to politicians who, of course, are sometimes found to have their underage children registered in the name of a tens of millions of HUF property. It would also be necessary to carry out a regular property inspection every four years to see if the fee covers the increase of wealth that the blind can often see is not. I would mention, as a sixth point, the publication of possible other citizenship, that if language knowledge and school education were shown on the National Assembly's website, then, I think it should also be indicated, and it would have been good if we had known earlier that Gábor Simon had built an escape route for himself in an African banana republic, for example, and obtained a passport from there. I think that this alone could have been suspected that there is a serious lawlessness, a political crime in the background. We also need to mention the issue of agent lists, as former agents, either in the government or at the head of state companies, whose history of state security is not yet public, but economic lobbyists and international secret services, can have information that can blackmail and influence these decision-makers. I could also mention the accountability and banning of Communist leaders from public life, of course this also has corruption implications. Just think that Ferenc Gyurcsány could be such a dominant person after the regime change, for example, in the absence of a ban on communist leaders from public life. I would also like to mention the ban on the limitation of economic crimes committed by politicians, which would need to be done, the double punishment of politician criminals, that they will receive double the amount of the penalty in force at all times, and the institution of total confiscation, so that such a Simon Gábor will not be freed by HUF 100 million, after personal income tax may be deducted from some late payment or medical contributions only from the money found, the source of which we still do not know. In closing, I would mention the institution of recallability as point 12, as Gyurcsány's Autumn speech showed most that it was necessary [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] to be accountable by a people in exceptional cases of force majeure. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-05-12-160	Thank you very much. Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-12-161	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Just a few thoughts on what has been said. The fundamental problem with Mr President's speech is that every democratic legal system is based on the presumption of innocence. You want to turn this around and start with the presumption of guilt with regard to politicians. And when will this circle continue, and how long will it reach? So it is obvious that it is not a rule of law that you have presented to us. For example, double punishment: if there is equal rights before the law, how can one be double punished for the same thing? Obviously, if you'd gone to law school, Congressman. [[Advanced Novak: Classified case!]] I probably shouldn't have mentioned these things then, but technically, he wouldn't survive the first year with such views, unfortunately I have to say, during the exam, of course. The question of job accumulation came up. I would like to say that the fact that there are no mayors in the Hungarian Parliament today - unlike many Western European states - is a self-limitation that has been achieved here due to the majority of governments. So neither the votes of Jobbik nor the votes of any opposition party could have achieved this situation. This is purely due to the determination of the ruling parties, and they voted for it. [[The Foreman of Novak: Back off!]] As far as the job accumulation is concerned, it was just recently in the case of Mayor Dávid Janiczak, who is currently taking up Vice-Presidentship, which has been said in Parliament that he has received salaries from five places. So, basically, you preach water and drink wine. If they can't make a small order around their own house, what makes them think that their president could have more discipline on the government? So maybe we need a little bit more humility and modesty in these things, regardless of whether we agree that the fight against crime and corruption should always be at the front of the government. Year after year, the Attorney General, the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Justice will hold conferences in this regard, provide information on facts, cases and the number of cases. So in this regard, I don't think the government can be charged. I wouldn't want to react separately to each point, but overall, I just wanted to show that the legislation that you know is doing in this area. What the governing parties, as a political factor, can do, I believe, has proved that they have done so in the last term, because now Members are being brought into Parliament on the basis of strict rules that are not being implemented in the states to the west of us, which we always look at as a model. I believe that Mr President's points are practically important issues, but they are well under the weight of the government, and I would like to reassure him. Thank you.
u2016-05-12-162	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. å Do they further limit the limited textbook order? Mr István Ikotity, Member of the LMP Group, the notary of the Parliament, applied for a speech after the agenda. Here you go, notary. [[22.40]]
u2016-05-12-163	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, In the course of textbook ordering, it is worth considering the textbook theme again. There is now also a highly centralised top-down state system. Fidesz-KDNP first nationalised the textbook distribution and then the textbook supply, both leading to serious problems. Kello began to operate in a scandalous manner: in 2013, nearly 40,000 textbooks did not arrive in time for school year start, many people waited for the ordered and paid copies for months. Some of the problems came up the following year. Similarly, reforming and publicising the textbook supply was problematic. This tool was to reduce market textbook publishers step by step, to create public textbook publishing and to define a limited textbook list, by administrative means, to prevent teachers from teaching from previously well-established and everyone-liked publications. Let's not think that all this was for ideological reasons. Of course, the current power, the Fidesz-KDNP, would particularly like to shape education in its own image from an ideological point of view, but it is not only that education has been subject to the fever of Viktor Orbán, the working-based society, as the usual financial interests have played a role. Very serious EU funds have been called for the conversion of the textbook system, which is part of a billion-dollar sum due to the cradle of friends who knows what pockets it has migrated into. This is also the reason why they do not want to, nor can they replace the wrong new textbooks, because then the European Union should pay back the money it has spent on them. In order to introduce new textbooks, two years ago the government started a major student experiment, as tens of thousands of students of 1,500 schools first tested the textbooks of the Institute for Education and Development, which was to be introduced in the emerging system, as of September 2014. But what's wrong with new textbooks? Based on feedback from teachers and experts, general and structural shortcomings and general quality problems have been identified in relation to books on a limited textbook list. In many cases, the curriculum from 15 to 20 years ago comes back, word for word, as if they had been scissored from earlier textbooks. The teacher's feedback is that it is much harder to teach from these publications compared to previous textbook families. Many years have forced them to replace textbooks, making it difficult for students to prepare smoothly for graduation and further education. The fact that students are not learning from the best textbooks, to put it mildly, has been supported by LMP's data requests when previous peer reviews of new publications, of course even during authorisation, have shown medium or slightly better results. Earlier, they had a significantly higher rating, much better. These are, on the one hand, general quality problems and, on the other hand, specific problematic elements, which even raise the possibility of infringement. Think of the offensive, stereotyping content, which we have dealt with before, asking for a review of the books. Dear House, The issue of textbook problems did not come up again because of current cases. Let us think here that according to the news, KLIK has arbitraryly restricted and overwritten even orders from a limited textbook list in several schools, or that due to the transformation of vocational secondary schools, new books may be needed, as some of the subjects of public knowledge are not taught anymore. As a result, many people are also waiting for additional orders to see if there will be a positive decision on the new framework curricula by then. The case of textbooks has also been presented in connection with the months-long schoolteacher ban. Over the years, it has turned out that the Hoffmann Rose's new national master plan is bleeding from a thousand wounds. A completely new curriculum is needed, a curriculum that finally adapts to the age characteristics, interests and needs of students; it is adapted to the diversity of students, since it is not possible to teach everyone the same, in the same way, at the same time; it will finally be a modern curriculum, with a modern subject structure and guarantees the XXI. the acquisition of skills and the transfer of knowledge necessary in the first century. However, if there is finally a new, modern curriculum in Hungary, it should be introduced only gradually after having undergone a wide-ranging professional and social debate. The next government must learn from the mistakes made by Fidesz-KDNP and also correct them with regard to textbooks. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-05-12-164	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 8 a.m. It's 10:45. Meeting day's closed. I wish you all a restful, good night. Thank you for your help. Thank you. [[Meeting ended at 10:45 p.m.]]
